Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3692 IN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH 
 
Dated October 8, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3692 IN 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF ANDHRA 
PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Andhra Pradesh). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty five 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 85,500,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to Andhra Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s 
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India; and 
 
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and with due regard to 
environmental and ecological considerations, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
Page  3
-
2
-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Andhra Pradesh shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit
 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh of 
its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable 
to the Association, and adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
Andhra Pradesh shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements reflecting the 
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, including, as part of the information to be provided in 
each such report, a management letter covering Andhra 
Pradesh’s internal controls; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Andhra Pradesh shall, not later than December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report, for such period and in respect of the 
Project, which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and  
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
Upon taking such necessary measures referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, Andhra Pradesh shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.   
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Andhra Pradesh: 
 
Chief Secretary 
Government of Andhra Pradesh 
Secretariat, Saifabad 
Hyderabad 500022 
Andhra Pradesh 
India 
 
Cable address: 
 
CHIEFSEC 
Hyderabad 
Andhra Pradesh, India 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh, 
or by Andhra Pradesh on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh or such 
other person or persons as the Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and the Chief 
Secretary shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH 
 
By /s/ H.S. Brahma 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999; and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in India. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $570,000 equivalent, and works up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,180,000 equivalent,, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. National 
Shopping
Goods other than vehicles estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,310,000 equivalent, and vehicles 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to 
exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Community 
Participation
Forestry operations and works under Parts B.1 and C.3 of the Project, and 
infrastructure development under Part C.2 thereof, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $68,650,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association, and specified in the Micro-plan Guidelines. 
 
4. Force 
Account
Civil works, estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, and 
costing $6,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and small forestry works, such as 
forest nurseries, research trials and clonal plant production, estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, and costing $4,560,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
 
5. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $770,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works to be awarded in each Fiscal Year, to which subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph does not apply, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, Andhra Pradesh shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, Andhra Pradesh shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultan
ts’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $140,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Institutional Provisions
1. 
Andhra Pradesh shall establish and maintain: 
 
(a)  
a Project Steering Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for coordination 
among State-level departments and agencies involved in the implementation of the 
Project;  
 
(b) 
a District Forest Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for coordination 
among District-level government departments and agencies involved in the 
implementation of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
an Independent Advisory Group (IAG), whose mandate, composition and 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Association, to advise on the implementation 
of the RAP, examine complaints related thereto and propose remedial measures as 
necessary. 
 
2. 
Andhra Pradesh shall:  
 
(a)  
designate FD to be responsible for the implementation of the Project 
under the overall leadership of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests; 
 
(b) 
establish and thereafter maintain a Project Monitoring  Unit (PMU) to be 
responsible for overall monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project, including 
development of the annual work program and budget, implementation and monitoring of 
social and environmental safeguard provisions, production of annual and quarterly 
progress reports and financial statements, and coordination of procurement activities and 
disbursement requests; and 
 
(c) ensure 
that: 
 
(i) 
PMU shall be headed by a Project Director, who shall be a Chief 
Conservator of Forests, and who shall be supported by three 
Conservators of Forests, six Deputy/Assistant Conservators of 
Forests, an accounts officer, and other suitably qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers; and  
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(ii) 
the positions of Chief Conservator of Forests, Conservators of 
Forests, Deputy/Assistant Conservators of Forests, and accounts 
officer, which are referred to in this paragraph, shall be kept 
filled at all times by persons having qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that, in the case of every Eligible Village: 
 
(a) 
a VSS shall be established and maintained to assist and participate in the 
preparation and implementation of  the Micro-plan; 
 
(b) 
the VSS shall be managed by a managing committee, whose mandate, 
composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to Andhra Pradesh and the 
Association; 
 
(c) 
all proceeds of the Credit accruing to the VSS to finance implementation 
of the Micro-plan shall be channeled through a joint Government/VSS account to be 
managed and operated jointly by the chairperson and vice-chairperson of the VSS 
managing committee, and a duly designated official of FD; and 
 
(d) 
a VSS advisory council, whose mandate, composition and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to Andhra Pradesh and the Association, shall be established 
and maintained to advise the VSS and assist in conflict resolution. 
 
Implementation, Reporting and Review Obligations
4. 
(a) 
Andhra Pradesh shall prepare and thereafter adopt in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association: 
 
(i) 
a Project Implementation Plan, giving details of all operational 
guidelines and procedures as shall have been agreed with the 
Association for the implementation, monitoring and supervision 
of the Project, including administrative, accounting and financial 
management procedures, procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation 
guidelines, and guidelines and procedures to ensure strict 
compliance with social and environmental safeguard measures and 
reporting obligations thereunder; and 
 
(ii) 
guidelines for the preparation, review and approval of Micro-
plans, including roles and responsibilities, and criteria, for the 
review and approval of Micro-plan proposals, administrative, 
accounting and financial management procedures, procurement 
and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators, 
Page  15
-
14 - 
monitoring and evaluation guidelines, and procedures to ensure 
strict compliance with social and environmental safeguard 
measures and reporting obligations thereunder, as well as model 
forms of the Memorandum of Understanding. 
 
(b) 
Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures 
set out in the PIP and the Micro-plan Guidelines, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
5. 
Andhra Pradesh shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the 
case may be: 
 
(a) 
not later than one month after the Effective Date, and thereafter not later 
than April 30 of each year, a proposed annual work program and budget for the 
forthcoming Fiscal Year; 
 
(b) 
annual and semi-annual progress reports on the status of the Project, to be 
submitted not later than two months after the end of the relevant reporting period; 
 
(c) 
reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under the Project;  
 
(d) 
semi-annual procurement reports giving details of:  
 
(i) 
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the Project;  
 
(ii) 
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, 
bidding, contract award and completion time for individual 
contracts; and 
 
(iii) 
status of compliance with aggregate limits on prescribed 
procurement procedures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
Andhra Pradesh shall, not later than June 30, 2005, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, a midterm review, during which they 
shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project, and 
the performance by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement, including the 
progress achieved in the implementation of Micro-plans, and the status of compliance 
with social and environmental safeguard measures, having regard to the monitoring 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
(b) 
Not later than one month prior to the midterm review, Andhra Pradesh
 
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review. 
 
(c) 
Following the midterm review, Andhra Pradesh
 
undertakes to act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy 
any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project. 
 
Social and Environmental Safeguard Measures
7. 
(a) 
Andhra Pradesh shall take steps to comply with the EMP, RAP, TDP and 
PMP, in accordance with the guidelines, time table and other specifications set forth in the 
EMP, RAP, TDP and PMP, respectively, and to ensure compliance with the relevant 
Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, if any, in accordance with the guidelines, 
time tables and other specifications set forth in each such Village-specific RAP and 
Village-specific TDP, respectively. 
 
(b) 
Andhra Pradesh shall cause PMU to collect, compile and submit annual 
and semi-annual reports on the status of compliance with social and environmental 
safeguard measures, giving details of measures taken in furtherance of the EMP, RAP, TDP 
and PMP, and the Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, conditions, if any, 
which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of such EMP, RAP, 
TDP and PMP, and each such Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, and 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
 
Additional Provisions Governing Micro-plans
8. 
For purposes of Part C of the Project, Andhra Pradesh shall allocate part of the 
proceeds of the Credit to finance goods, works and services required for the 
implementation of Micro-plans on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to finance Micro-plans, 
in accordance with terms and conditions, and implementation schedules, set forth in the 
relevant Micro-plans; 
 
(b) 
no amount of the proceeds of the Credit shall be so allocated for the 
benefit of a VSS unless a Micro-plan has been duly prepared by FD or the VSS in 
accordance with the Micro-plan Guidelines, and duly submitted to, and approved by FD;  
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
(c) 
the amount so allocated for the benefit of a VSS shall be determined 
according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Micro-plan Guidelines and Project Implementation Plan;  
 
(d) 
goods, services and works required for the purposes of financing a 
Micro-plan shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and set forth in the Micro-plan; and 
 
(e) 
for purposes of all activities to be financed under a Micro-plan in any 
Fiscal Year, a memorandum of understanding shall be concluded with the VSS in a form 
which shall be acceptable to the Association, setting forth the respective obligations of 
the parties thereunder, including details of contract costs, disbursement schedules, 
maintenance of accounts, completion time and dispute settlement procedures. 
 
9. 
For the purpose of facilitating preparation of Micro-plans, Andhra Pradesh may 
cause NGOs to be engaged in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with the 
Association, and specified in the Micro-plan Guidelines. 
 
