Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3692 IN
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 8, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3692 IN 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 2002, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has in 1988 issued a National Forest Policy 
(hereinafter referred to as the National Forest Policy), describing the objectives and 
strategy designed to ensure sustainable management of its forest resources, and declared 
its commitment to the implementation of the National Forest Policy; 
 
(B)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra 
Pradesh)
 with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) 
available to Andhra Pradesh, as set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(D) 
Andhra Pradesh has issued a government order, dated February 12, 2002, 
(hereinafter referred to as Government Order), setting forth details of the legal and 
institutional framework governing the implementation of community forest management 
(hereinafter referred to as CFM); and   
 
(E) 
Andhra Pradesh has issued a letter of implementation policy, dated  
May 28, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as Letter of Implementation Policy), giving details 
of the policy guidelines, procedures and matrix of actions designed to ensure the smooth 
implementation of the Project, and declared its commitment to the Letter of 
Implementation Policy; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
Andhra Pradesh (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 9, 1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “Andhra Pradesh” means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a State of the 
Borrower or any successor thereto;  
 
(b)   “District” means an administrative subdivision of a State; 
 
(c)   “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(d)  “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) “Eligible Village” means a village which is declared eligible for assistance 
under the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
 
(f) “Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental 
Management Plan, dated January 18, 2002, issued by Andhra Pradesh, and describing a 
program of environmental actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the 
benefits and manage the potential adverse impacts arising under the Project; 
 
(g)  “FD” means the Forest Department of Andhra Pradesh; 
 
(h)   “Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year; 
 
(i) “Government Order” means the Government Order referred to in the 
Preamble, as same may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Government Order; 
 
(j)   “Independent Advisory Group” or “IAG” means the Independent Advisory 
Group referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU” means a memorandum of 
understanding concluded or to be concluded between Andhra Pradesh and a VSS 
pursuant to paragraph 8 (e) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as same may be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Memorandum of Understanding; 
 
(l)  “Micro-plan” means a village level development plan, setting forth the 
priority needs of the village in terms of its essential social and physical infrastructure, 
forestry management and development works, and income generating activities, 
including details of the Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, if any; 
 
(m) “Micro-plan Guidelines” means guidelines for the preparation and approval 
of Micro-plans referred to in Part C.1 of the Project and paragraph (4) (a) (ii) of Schedule 
2
to the Project Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time in agreement 
with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Micro-plan Guidelines; 
 
(n)   “NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
 
(o) “Project Affected Families” or “PAFs” means those families whose 
livelihoods are adversely affected as a result of loss of lands, houses, trees or crops  from 
forest areas as a result of interventions under the Project; 
 
(p) “Pest Management Plan” or “PMP” means the Pest Management Plan, dated 
January 18, 2002, issued by Andhra Pradesh, and describing a program of actions, 
measures and policies designed to promote proper pest management under the Project; 
 
(q) “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;  
 
(r) “Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph (4) (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as same may 
be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(s) “Project Management Report” means a report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(t) Project Monitoring Unit” or “PMU” means the Project Monitoring Unit 
referred to in paragraph (2) (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 31, 2001, and on behalf of the Borrower on  
December 10, 2001; 
 
(v)  “Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, 
dated January 18, 2002, issued by Andhra Pradesh, and describing a program of actions, 
measures and policies designed to avoid or minimize any adverse impacts or hardship to 
PAFs as a result of the Project or, if such adverse hardships cannot be avoided altogether, 
provide such PAFs with alternative opportunities to enhance or restore their livelihoods; 
 
(w) “Rupees” or “Rs” means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(x)  “State” means any one or more of the main administrative subdivisions of the 
Borrower’ s territory; 
 
(y) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(z) “Tribal Development Plan” or “TDP” means the Tribal Development 
Strategy and Action Plan, dated January 18, 2002, issued by Andhra Pradesh, and 
describing a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits 
accruing to tribal groups and avoid or mitigate potential impacts adversely affecting such 
groups under the Project; 
 
(aa)  “Village” means an administrative subdivision of a District; 
 
(bb) “Village-specific”, in relation to an EMP, RAP, TDP or PMP means a 
program of actions, measures and policies consistent with the EMP, RAP, TDP or PMP, 
as the case may be, and which have been developed to meet the specific needs of an 
Eligible Village; and 
 
(cc)  “VSS” means 
Vana Samarakshana Saminti
,
a
village-level Forest Protection 
Committee referred to in paragraph (3) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty five million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 85,500,000). 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each   
June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2012, and ending June 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2022, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause Andhra Pradesh to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Andhra Pradesh therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the Credit available 
to Andhra Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for 
development assistance to the States of India. 
 
Section 3.03.
 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Andhra 
Pradesh in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
 a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the National 
Forestry Policy, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement or pursuant to the Letter of Implementation Policy;  
 
(c ) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Andhra Pradesh will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or pursuant to the Letter of Implementation Policy; 
 
(d) 
the Government Order shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Andhra Pradesh 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: namely, that any event specified in paragraph (b) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Independent Advisory 
Group has been duly established. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under-Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi, PIN 110001 
 India 
 
Cable address:    
 
Telex: 
 
ECOFAIRS  
 
953-3166175 
 New 
Delhi 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA
 
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1.  Forestry operations and 
50,400,000 
90 % 
 
works under Part B.1, 
 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project 
 
2.  Civil Works 
4,600,000 
80 % 
 
3.  Goods and equipment 
7,800,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 100% 
 
of local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost); and  
 
80% of local expen- 
 
ditures for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
4. Training, workshops and 
8,600,000 
100%  
 study 
tours 
 
 
 
5. 
Consultants’ services 
2,200,000 
80%  
 
6.  NGO support 
5,400,000 
100%  
 
7.   Operating costs 
3,700,000 
50% until March 31, 
 
2004,
35% until 
 
March 31, 2006, and 
 
20% thereafter 
 
Page  14
-
13 -
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
8.   Refunding of PPF Advance 
1,200,000  
Amount due pursuant 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
9.   Unallocated 
1,600,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
85,500,000 
   
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of hiring of jeeps, maintenance of vehicles, communications 
maintenance, office equipment maintenance, stationery, computer consumables, 
maintenance of hardware, facilitation, maintenance of research buildings and equipment, 
and lease lines. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement
,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (4), (5) and (7) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2002; or 
 
(b) 
in respect of any activities to be financed under a Micro-plan, unless: 
(i) the Micro-plan has been prepared in accordance with procedures, and on terms and 
conditions, set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
Memorandum of Understanding has been duly concluded in accordance with 
 
paragraph 8 (e) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) consultants’ services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 
equivalent each, in the case of individual consultants; (iii) operating costs; and  
(iv) training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain a special deposit account in dollars in the 
Federal Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of the amount to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of 
Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report, 
accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this  Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of 
the Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
Page  16
-
15 -
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of this Annex, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,500,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 30,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Page  18
-
17 -
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made On the Basis of 
Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000. 
Page  20
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce rural poverty through improved forest 
management with community participation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Enabling Environment for Forest Management
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support to build the 
capacity of FD, including: (a) training of staff at all levels; (b) enhanced financial and 
administrative powers of the front line staff; (c) strengthening of the capacity of forestry 
training institutions; (d) development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy 
for training in silviculture, planning, forest management and communications’ skills; and 
(e) provision of training infrastructure, civil works and audio visual equipment.    
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of community institutions, through: (a) introduction of 
simplified formats for micro-planning and financial management, and training of VSS 
members; (b) organization of workshops to facilitate discussions and promote exchanges 
among VSS both at state and at local levels; (c) distribution of effective extension 
messages to VSS members, using print and electronic media; and (d) organization of 
study tours to promote knowledge transfer. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support, and establishment 
of a management and information system, including a financial management system, to 
assist in the implementation, supervision and monitoring of the Project.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support to undertake 
activities relating to policy development in the forestry sector, including studies on issues 
which constrain development of the sector or otherwise influence the overall performance 
of the sector, implementation of new enabling legislation, and organization of workshops 
and meetings for shareholder consultations on proposed reforms or for dissemination of 
findings. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material support to undertake 
monitoring and evaluation activities, including: (a) internal monitoring by FD and PMU 
on the basis of quarterly progress reports and in accordance with mutually agreed 
performance indicators; and (b) external monitoring and evaluation by an external 
monitoring and evaluation agency, including submission of periodic reports, a mid-term 
report and a post-evaluation report. 
 
Page  21
-
20 -
Part B
:
Forest Management
1. 
(a) Implementation of silvicultural treatments to improve the productivity of 
315,800 hectares of degraded forests, (b) maintenance and tending of 70,000 hectares of 
already treated forests, (c) provision of seedlings and establishment of plantations in 
community and private land outside the forests, and (d) fodder development. 
 
2. 
Design and operationalisation of a forest inventory in Andhra Pradesh. 
 
3. 
Implementation of applied research, including ongoing research program to 
facilitate two-way communication between FD and VSS members and others. 
 
4. 
Development and maintenance of an integrated Forest Management Information 
System (FMIS), incorporating different aspects of forest management, including:  
(a) evaluation of the present state of FMIS development in Andhra Pradesh, and further 
development of software, hardware and networking; and (b) development of a forest 
sector website. 
 
Part C
:
Community Development
1. 
Development of detailed guidelines for the preparation and approval of  Micro-
plans, preparation of Micro-plans consistent with the guidelines, and implementation and 
monitoring of such Micro-plans. 
 
2. 
Development in each Eligible Village of limited physical and social 
infrastructure of benefit to the Eligible Village, including drinking water facilities, 
approach roads, village sanitation and drainage facilities, school buildings, community 
halls, and small village tanks, as may be appropriate.  
 
3. 
Implementation of group-based activities designed to improve the skills base and 
provide alternative sources of income generation for the benefit of marginalized 
individuals and groups, including non-timber forest products (NTFP) processing, 
fisheries, local crafts, apiculture and other non-farm activities. 
 
4. 
Development and implementation of a Village-specific RAP consistent with the 
Resettlement Action Plan in each Eligible Village.  
 
5. 
Development and implementation of a Village-specific TDP consistent with the 
Tribal Development Plan in each VSS  Village. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007.
 
