                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001464




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA 3532-IN)

                                         ON A

                        CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
             SDR 85.5 MILLION (US$ 108 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO INDIA

                                    FOR THE

     ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                September 27, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective 10 April 2010)

                          Currency Unit =    India Rupee (INR)
                              INR 1.00 =     US$ 0.0224496
                              US$ 1.00 =     INR 44.54

                                FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1 ­ March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APCFMP    Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project
APFA      Andhra Pradesh Forest Academy
APFD      Andhra Pradesh Forest Department
APFP      Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBET      Community Based Eco-Tourism
CEFNARM   Center for Forest Research and Natural Resource Management
CENPAP    Center for Public Perception and Policy
CEG       Common Enterprise Groups
CEW       Community Extension Workers
CFM       Community Forest Management
CPF       Centre for People's Forestry
CSO       Clonal Seed Orchard
DBH       Diameter at Breast Height
DFO       Divisional Forest Officer
DPIP      Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations
FBO       Forest Beat Officer
FDA       Forest Development Agencies
FDC       Forest Development Corporation
FMIS      Forest Management Information System
FRO       Forest Range Officer
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
FSO       Forest Section Officer
GBH       Girth at Breast Height
GIS       Geographic Information System
GO        Government Order
GOAP      Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI       Government of India
HH        Households
IAG       Independent Advisory Group
ICRR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IO        Intermediate Outcome
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ITDA      Integrated Tribal Development Agency
JFM       Joint Forest Management
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MLCT    Multi-Locational Clonal Trial
MT      Metric Ton
MTR     Mid-Term Review
M3      Cubic Meter
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NREGA   National Rural Employment Guarantee Act
NRM     Natural Resources Management
NTFP    Non-Timber Forest Product
OMR     Optimal Mark Reader
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAF     Project Affected Families
PCCF    Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PMU     Project Monitoring Unit
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
RoFR    Recognition of Forest Rights Act
SC      Scheduled Caste
SCF     Standard Conversion Factor
SHG     Self Help Group
ST      Scheduled Tribe
TC      Training Coordinators
TDC     Technology Dissemination Centre
TDP     Tribal Development Plan
TERI    The Energy and Research Institute
VSS     Vana Samrakshana Samiti (Forest User Group)
WB      World Bank
XDR     Standard Drawing Rights


                       Vice President:   Isabel M. Guerrero
                    Country Director:    Roberto Zagha
                     Sector Manager:     Simeon Ehui
                 Project Team Leader:    Grant Milne
                   ICR Team Leader:      Takayuki Hagiwara (FAO)
 
                                                        INDIA

THE ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 7
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 28

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 83
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 93
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 96
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 97
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 103
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 104
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 105

  MAP

  Borrowers ICRR
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          ANDHRA PRADESH
                                                                          COMMUNITY
Country:                India                   Project Name:             FOREST
                                                                          MANAGEMENT
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P073094                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36920
ICR Date:               09/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 85.5M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 78.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 78.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Andhra Pradesh Forest Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/29/2001     Effectiveness:             11/26/2002       11/26/2002
                                                                                 03/28/2008
Appraisal:            02/20/2002     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 03/30/2009
Approval:             07/16/2002     Mid-term Review:           10/10/2005       05/01/2006
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2008       03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      9                  15
Forestry                                                              66                  60
Other social services                                                 25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                          22                  35
Improving labor markets                                               22                  10
Other environment and natural resources management                    22                  30
Other rural development                                               23                  12
Participation and civic engagement                                    11                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                     Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:            Simeon Kacou Ehui                    Constance A. Bernard
Project Team Leader:       Grant Milne                          Irshad A. Khan
ICR Team Leader:           Grant Milne
ICR Primary Author:        Takayuki Hagiwara
                           Paul A. Ryan




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (PDO) is to reduce rural poverty through improved
forest management with community participation.

  The specific outputs leading to PDO are:
  1. Legal, institutional and policy framework strengthened.
  2. VSS prepared and capable to assume forest management tasks.
  3. Forest Resources within community forest management areas improved/
rehabilitated.
  4. Non-government organization (NGO) skill enhanced for working with Vana
Samarakshana Committees (VSS).
  5. Prioritized social and economic needs of VSS supported.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values        Target Years
                Number of functioning forest user groups (VSS) undertaking forest management
Indicator 1 : tasks according to microplans and operating according to their covenants and
                agreed procedures.
                                                                           VSSs supported:
                                                                           5,153 in total.
Value                                                                      Operating as per
quantitative or 2,666                     5000                             covenants and
Qualitative)                                                               practicing
                                                                           silviculture as per
                                                                           micro plans: 4,554
Date achieved 11/26/2002                  11/26/2002                       03/31/2010
                Social audit (CENPAP, 2010) classifies 1,205 VSSs (26%) as Grade A
Comments
                (Excellent), 1,585 VSS as Grade B (very good), 1,664 VSSs as Grade C
(incl. %
                (good/average), 216 Grade D (below average) out of 4,670 project VSSs, based
achievement)
                on several criteria.
                Average forest based product income (cash and kind at 2009 real prices) realized
Indicator 2 :
                by VSS members resulting from improved forest productivity
                                                                           1. Non-timber
                Non-timber forest product                                  forest product
Value
                income : INR 2,390 per                                     income: INR 3,665
quantitative or
                household for 4,203                                        per household for
Qualitative)
                households                                                 5,065 households




                                               iii
                                                                            2. Harvest income:
                                                                            INR1,810 per
                                                                            household for 1,212
                                                                            households

                                                                            3. Enterprise
                                                                            income: INR 1,740
                                                                            per household for
                                                                            1,810 households
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
                The data is INR per year based on a household income impact survey (CENPAP,
Comments
                2010) of a random sample of 5,174 HHs drawn from 474 VSSs. Figures in
(incl. %
                parentheses indicate the number of HHs benefited by the respective source of
achievement)
                income.
Indicator 3 : Decline in seasonal out migration for employment
                                                                            VSSs reporting
                VSSs reporting migration                                    migration : 37 (23%
Value
                : 48                                                        down)
quantitative or
                Average number of                                           Average number of
Qualitative)
                Migrants/VSS : 38                                           Migrants/VSS : 24
                                                                            (37% down)
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
Comments
                The data are based on baseline survey (APCFMP, 2002) and socioeconomic
(incl. %
                impact assessment survey (DRS, 2010) carried out in 151 sample VSSs.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Re-investment by VSS in forest areas from generated funds (number of VSS)
                                                                            1. Reinvestment
                                                                            plans prepared :
                                                                            2,283 VSS
Value
                                                                            2. Forest income
quantitative or zero
                                                                            generated: 1,421
Qualitative)
                                                                            VSS

                                                                            3. Reinvestment
                                                                            taken up: 266 VSS
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
Comments        VSSs with good forests have revised micro plans to expand forest livelihoods.
(incl. %        50% of forest revenues finance forest management. Reinvestment has increased
achievement) as forests grow, products start being harvested and revenues generated.
Indicator 5 : Improved forest cover profile in project VSS areas (Sq. Km)
                Total area: 9210                                            Total area: 9210
Value           Dense forest: 1728                                          Dense forest: 2149
quantitative or Open forest: 3378                                           Open forest: 3614
Qualitative)    Scrub forest: 3229                                          Scrub forest: 2747
                Blanks, water: 875                                          Blanks, water: 700
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
Comments        This indicator was not originally included in the PAD. However, it was decided
(incl. %        to include as a PDO indicator to capture the impact of improved forest quality.


                                               iv
achievement)    The data are based on an analysis of remote sensing imageries by APFD.
Indicator 6 :   Legal status accorded to VSS through amendment to the AP Forest Act,1967
                                                                            1,970 VSSs under
Value           Need to reform AP Forest
                                                                            the ST & OTFD
quantitative or Act to provide VSS with
                                                                            Act, 2006
Qualitative)    stronger legal status
                                                                            379,496 ha
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2009
                APFD received concurrence from GoI to revise CFM clauses in existing AP
Comments
                Forest Act, 1967. GoI later passed the ST and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers
(incl. %
                (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, which supersedes the proposed
achievement)
                amendment to AP Forest Act

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                New Government Order on CFM to provide enabling environment for CFM in
Indicator 1 :
                place
                Need to reform GO 13 on
                CFM for improved                                            GO 13 was
                benefit sharing and                                         amended to GO 4
Value
                delegation of certain                                       (benefit sharing)
(quantitative
                financial and                                               and GO 2 (local
or Qualitative)
                administration powers to                                    officer and VSS
                local forest officers and                                   powers)
                VSS
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    12/02/2002
Comments        GO13 was suitably modified in GO 4, which provides the foundation for CFM
(incl. %        (VSSs are entitled to 100% of forest revenues. GO 2 devolved powers to field
achievement) officers.
Indicator 2 : Number of Women in Management Committees
Value
(quantitative   41,224                                                      43,927
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
Comments        Most existing VSSs already had women in key position as per JFM rules. There
(incl. %        are 454 VSSs with women as chair persons;136 VSSs with both women
achievement) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
Indicator 3 : Members of vulnerable groups in the management committees of VSSs (%)
                                                                            VSS membership:
Value                                                                       57%
                No baseline was
(quantitative                                                               Executive
                measured.
or Qualitative)                                                             committee
                                                                            members: 77%
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                    03/31/2010
Comments        Higher representation of ST and SC members in MC and general body of VSS



                                               v
(incl. %          than their population in project districts, which is around 26%.
achievement)
                  Project Affected Families (PAFs) assisted with viable livelihood options
Indicator 4 :
                  (Number and annual HH income level at 2009 real prices)
                                                                                  Assisted PAFs:
Value             Number of PAFs: 11,680                                          12,528
(quantitative     Average PAF income:        11,680 PAFs                          Average PAF
or Qualitative)   Rs9,690 per year                                                income: Rs13,585
                                                                                  per year
Date achieved     11/26/2002                 03/31/2008                           03/31/2010
Comments          The data is based on a sample survey (DRS, 2010) of 362 PAFs drawn from 45
(incl. %          VSSs. The project worked with 12, 582 PAFs in 430 VSSs; 32% of the PAFs
achievement)      were landless. Average real PAF income has increased 40%)
Indicator 5 :     Average wage employment generated (Million person days/year - mpd per year)
                                                                                  Employment: 5.3
                                                                                  mpd
                                                                                  Male share: 2.7
Value
                                                                                  mpd
(quantitative     No baseline
                                                                                  Female share: 2.6
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  mpd
                                                                                  SC/ST share: 3.8
                                                                                  mpd
Date achieved     11/26/2002                                                      03/31/2010
Comments          US$ 85 million was spent on forestry works. US$ 55.5 (65% of the total forestry
(incl. %          works) was disbursed as wage income to project beneficiaries (around 261,000
achievement)      VSS members) through this component.
                  VSS members and NGOs workers trained in specified silvicultural topics,
Indicator 6 :     financial accounting, group management and conflict resolution and involved in
                  CFM implementation (numbers)
                                                                                  Training in:
                                                                                  1. Forest
                                                                                  management:
                                                                                  83,527
                                                                                  2. Financial
Value                                                                             management:
(quantitative     No baseline                                                     73,580
or Qualitative)                                                                   3. Social
                                                                                  development:
                                                                                  92,422
                                                                                  4. Study
                                                                                  tours/seminars:
                                                                                  32,882
Date achieved     11/26/2002                                                      03/31/2010
Comments          A total of 282,611 VSS members and NGO workers (cumulative) were trained
(incl. %          for skill development in technical, financial, social and management aspects for
achievement)      effective implementation of CFM.
                  Forest department staff trained in specified silvicultural techniques, nursery
Indicator 7 :
                  practices, communication, extension and participatory approaches (numbers)
Value             No baseline                                                     Staff filled 99,986


                                                  vi
(quantitative                                                              places in training
or Qualitative)                                                            programs across
                                                                           several technical
                                                                           subject areas.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                                                   03/31/2010
Comments
              Included technical, financial, social and management aspects for effective
(incl. %
              implementation of CFM.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     09/19/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     03/31/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      2.88
  3     09/08/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      2.88
  4     02/09/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      6.95
  5     08/31/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    26.15
  6     05/09/2005           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    40.41
  7     03/16/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    60.55
  8     10/24/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    69.59
  9     01/04/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    72.66
 10     04/20/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    80.20
 11     10/26/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    91.30
 12     04/12/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    97.20
 13     10/17/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   102.53
 14     05/05/2009           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   107.84
 15     11/05/2009           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   111.19


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 03/28/2008               S       S          94.94
                                                     March 31, 2009
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 03/30/2009               S       S         106.95
                                                     March 31, 2010




                                              vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Strategic Context
Following completion of the World Bank's earlier forestry lending operation in the state (Andhra
Pradesh Forestry Project: APFP, Cr No 2573 IN) in September 2000, the new Andhra Pradesh
Community Forest Management Project (APCFMP) aimed to contribute to the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS)1 goal of supporting critical pro-poor interventions that: (i) promote
more efficient delivery mechanisms; (ii) entrench beneficiary participation; and (iii) strengthen
the rural safety net through measures that include the deepening of rural assets. The project
addressed poverty reduction "by increasing access to resources by groups of poor and landless,
while at the same time achieving environmental goals of land reclamation, forest regeneration
and bio-diversity protection".

Andhra Pradesh has been one of India's reforming and progressive states supported by the Bank
through a multi-sector approach, which included the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring
Program (Ln. 4360/Cr. 3103-IN), and the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Loan. In
addition to the fiscal governance reforms, the Bank provided assistance to accelerate rural growth
and support key pro-poor interventions through the Andhra Pradesh Irrigation III Project (Ln.
4166/Cr 2952-IN) and Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project (DPIP) (Credit 3332),
aiming to widen beneficiary involvement and strengthen empowerment. This project fit well into
the framework of pro-poor rural development in rural forest areas.

Sector Context
Joint Forest Management (JFM) was introduced in Andhra Pradesh in 1994 as a means of
protecting forests, improving their productivity and alleviating rural poverty, following the
national JFM model being used in most states at that time. The earlier Bank-supported forestry
lending project in Andhra Pradesh was designed to underpin the implementation of JFM and
focused mainly on establishing Vana Samrakshana Samiti forest user groups (VSS) and forest
improvement activities. This earlier project also included initial work on genetic improvement of
planting stock and establishing the groundwork for a forest management information system
(FMIS). The JFM strategy, backed by the earlier Bank project, proved reasonably effective in
restoring forest cover in targeted degraded forest lands, while also improving access to minor
forest products for forest based communities. However, given the JFM model at the time, VSS
were established, but with little emphasis on empowering them to manage these forests and help
develop broader livelihoods. This approach changed in 2002 as the Government of Andhra
Pradesh (GoAP) determined there was greater potential of forests to contribute towards poverty
alleviation than with the existing JFM model. Accordingly, the GoAP adopted a more proactive
stance to transform JFM to Community Forest Management (CFM) under a Government Order
(GO) issued on February 12, 2002. The basic difference between the two approaches is that JFM
uses community participation mainly for forest protection, in return for access to minor forest



1
  The CAS is built around the Government of India's Ninth Five-Year Plan in which the objective is to "strengthen
the enabling environment for development and sustainable growth and support critical interventions of special
benefit to the poor and disadvantaged".


                                                      7
products and modest benefit-sharing from timber2; communities have very limited involvement in
forest management. On the other hand, CFM aims not only to improve forest cover, quality and
productivity, but also to empower communities to manage forest resources assigned to them, and
in addition to subsistence products, retain revenues from commercial sales to finance sustainable
forest management and livelihood development. This meant devolution of authority and
responsibility to VSS for the management and utilization of forest areas, while at the same time
redefining the roles and responsibilities of Andhra Pradesh Forest Department (APFD) frontline
staff. It is important to note that Andhra Pradesh is the only state in the country to have adopted a
progressive model of CFM, which provides the VSS with 100 percent of gross revenue generated
from the forests under its protection (except from existing plantations3), with a stipulation that at
least 50 percent of revenues are re-invested in forest development as specified in the microplan.
The other 50 percent is used by the community for local development or cash dividends to
members. Putting forest revenue into the hands of the community is the key strategy for
sustainable management of forest resources for poverty alleviation. The new APCFMP (from
November 2002 to March 2010) aimed to assist the GoAP with this transition to CFM.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO was to reduce rural poverty through improved forest management with community
participation. A specific intended outcome of this objective was for the poor and primarily tribal
forest-dependent communities to gradually assume increasing, and as capacities are built and
experience gained, full responsibility for the development and maintenance of forest areas
formally placed under their stewardship. As communities assumed these responsibilities under
the system of CFM supported by the project, they would receive legal entitlement to all revenues
generated from both non-timber and timber forest products.

The key performance indicators at the outcome level in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
were:
   a) Number of functioning VSS undertaking forest management tasks according to micro-
      plans and operating according to their covenants and agreed procedures;
   b) Increase in non-timber forest products (NTFP) incomes (in cash and kind) realized by
      VSS members resulting from improved forest productivity;
   c) Decline in seasonal migration for employment;
   d) Re-investment by VSS in forest areas from generated funds;
   e) Micro-plans prepared through participatory planning conforming to revised forest
      working plans covering all CFM areas;
   f) Number of VSS members and non-government organization (NGO) workers trained in
      specified silvicultural topics, financial accounting, group management and conflict
      resolution and involved in CFM implementation;


2
  In JFM, the forest department would undertake harvesting and sale of commercial timber, returning a small share to
the community after deducting all operating costs and overheads.

3
  For community forests that were degraded and rehabilitated by managing natural regeneration, communities will
keep 100 percent of all gross timber revenues. For existing (often degraded) APFD plantations assigned to
communities, a pro-rata formula is used for benefit sharing of existing plantations based on stand age. The younger
the stand age, the higher the benefits that will accrue to communities. For all subsequent "second rotation" stands
established by communities after harvesting the inherited forest, they will retain 100 percent of gross revenues.


                                                       8
    g) Number of forest department staff trained in specified silvicultural techniques, nursery
       practices, communication, extension and participatory approaches; and
    h) Legal status accorded to VSS through amendment to the AP Forest Act (1967).


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Performance
Indicators (KPI), and reasons/justification

Although there was discussion at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) to change the KPIs and the
project log-frame to capture more accurately the renewed focus on livelihoods development, the
PDO and KPIs were not officially revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD estimated that 326,000 households or about 1.8 million people in 14 districts4 would
benefit from the project, which covered 1.3 million ha of forest land (50 percent of which was
estimated as open forest or scrub forests). There was a special focus on the poorest and most
disadvantaged groups, recognized as Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Scheduled Castes (SC), many of
whom are landless or in possession of unproductive tracts of land in the forested northern,
coastal, and southern belts.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Establishing Enabling Environment for CFM (US$ 22.19 million)
This component aimed to support policy and institutional changes to make APFD more
conducive to implementing CFM. This component included capacity building of the government,
community organizations and NGOs as well as support to project management; monitoring and
evaluation (M&E); studies and consultancies; activities of the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU);
staff amenities and communication facilities; plus other unforeseen activities necessary in
implementing project activities.

Component 2: Forest Management (US$ 79.86 million)
This component aimed to increase the productivity of designated forest lands through improved
planning and silvicultural practices; the introduction of NTFPs using multiple-use shrub and tree
species including medicinal plants; agro-forestry; common land afforestation; and fodder and
pasture development. The project also supported adaptive forestry research; completion of a
forest inventory; implementation of an environmental and pest management plan; and
development of FMIS that would improve forest management and decision making.

Component 3: Community Development (US$ 23.57 million)
This component was designed to help communities improve their village infrastructure and
livelihood opportunities through forest as well as non-forest based income generation activities.
The project supported group-based economic activities targeting poor in project villages. A Tribal
Development Plan (TDP) was an integral sub-component in preparing these investment proposals
including livelihood development activities. The project also assisted people who gave up illegal

4
 Adilabad, Nizamabad, Mahbubnagar, Medak, Khammam, Warangal, Karimnagar, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam,
Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore.


                                                 9
encroaching (podu: slash and burn cultivation) on state forest land for alternative activities. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) identified mitigation measures for lost livelihoods from shifting
cultivation and provided financial support to develop alternatives. The project also financed NGO
support, women community volunteers5 and preparation of micro plans under this component.

1.6 Revised Components

The three project components were not formally revised. However, the livelihood development
focus under Component 3 was reinforced in 2005 to provide greater employment and income
opportunities through promoting value addition to forest based products for vulnerable members
of the communities. Budget reallocations were made to strengthen component 1 and allow for
increased capacity and institutional development. There was also an attempt to integrate the
project's livelihood development activities with the ongoing Bank-supported DPIP project.
However, due to fundamental differences in the core mandates of the two projects as well as the
membership base, this was not adopted by the GoAP. Instead, the project's enterprise promotion
interventions were linked with forest-based resources to which VSSs had access.

1.7 Other significant changes

The Development Credit Agreement was amended three times: (i) credit re-allocation to include
Tsunami related activities, particularly for expanded shelterbelt tree planting along the coast
(February 14, 2006); (ii) extension of closing date by one year and reallocation of forecast
savings from capacity building of government agencies, management planning, and RAP, to
project management, social forestry, applied research and development, community forest
management support, and livelihood enhancement planning (March 28, 2008); and (iii) extension
of closing date by a second year to allow critical support to communities and institutions to
continue, helping a growing number of VSS to become more independent. (March 30, 2009).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The PDO is clear and was consistent throughout the project implementation period. The project
responded to Government of India (GoI) and GoAP's priorities to reduce rural poverty (see
section 1.1 "Context at Appraisal"), while at the same time effectively addressing the sector
issues. Based on a wide range of experiences from Bank financed operations in the country and
the state including the earlier forestry project, the rational for Bank involvement was sound.
However, some of the KPIs were poorly formulated. Further, although policies to implement
CFM were effectively prepared prior to the project inception, a process monitoring/quality
assurance mechanism was not designed to ensure that the CFM policy was adequately
implemented at the field level. While the project aimed to strengthen livelihoods of vulnerable
groups, this aspect was also not clearly elaborated in the original design. It should be mentioned
however, that forestry projects in India at that time still tended to focus on the JFM model rather

5
 During implementation, the project redefined the role of volunteers and decided to create a cadre of Community
Extension Workers (CEW) who would cover several VSSs supporting APFD frontline staff. It was a paid job, but
not limited only to women. Many of the CEWs were recruited from/through local NGOs.


                                                       10
than on livelihoods. The APCFMP was the first major project in India to empower communities
in a meaningful way and focus on livelihood improvement. It is noted that a Quality at Entry
Review was not conducted by the Bank for this project.

2.2 Implementation

With the two-year extension, the project was able to consolidate its outcomes and successfully
implement CFM on a fairly wide scale of approximately 5,000 VSS. Key factors that contributed
to this success included: a) policy reform to implement CFM; b) institutional reform at the VSS
level to implement CFM; c) recognizing the need for livelihood activities; d) cooperation with
NGOs; e) impact of applied research; f) project extensions and consolidation of the better
performing VSS; and g) visionary client and dynamic leadership. These factors drive many of the
overall lessons learned (see Section 6).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
The M&E design comprised (a) a computerized monitoring package integrating a FMIS and
Geographic Information System (GIS); and (b) process monitoring as part of a comprehensive
and participatory M&E. The definitions of some PDO indicators were not clear, leaving them
open to interpretation, for example, a `functioning VSS'. In addition, some of the indicators did
not directly link the three key aspects of the PDO: (i) reduction of rural poverty; (ii) improvement
of forest management; (iii) community participation, with use of both output and outcome
indicators to measure achievement of the PDO.

Implementation
The sector-wide FMIS used in-house resources and project funds to upgrade, simplify and re-
structure the integrated computer-based management information system (MIS) that had been
developed under the earlier APFP. Integration of FMIS with a GIS was an issue early in the
project, and a private agency (Antrix Corporation)6 was contracted after the MTR to help address
this problem. A GIS database for all VSSs has been developed, and the FMIS and GIS have been
fully integrated. At the time of credit closing, the software was being tested in Kakinada Forest
Division. It is understood that the APFD is now utilizing this integrated system for monitoring all
forestry sector activities, largely with in-house expertise. There is now good scope to begin using
the system to help communities develop and monitor their micro-plans.

The M&E and impact assessment studies commissioned by the project have provided useful data
and information on project impact and outcomes. To assess VSS performance and capabilities at
project completion, the PMU commissioned a participatory evaluation exercise by external
agencies7. Processes such as graduation from JFM into CFM, institutional reforms and
development (organizing Common Enterprise Groups - CEGs, and higher level federations),
developing business plans, benefit sharing, reinvestment strategies to continue forest
management have all been monitored periodically.
6
    Antrix Corporation Limited is the business and marketing arm of Indian Space Research Organization.

7
 This evaluation, called `social audit', used the Optical Mark Reader (OMR) technique for data reading, which
enabled quick sorting and analysis of the data. It surveyed 4,808 VSS (about 93 percent of project VSSs) with 45,859
respondents.

                                                         11
Utilization
The FMIS has streamlined planning, forecasting and financial management across the
department. Where monitoring of on-going works was previously based on manually updated
"works registers", with a time-lag of 3-4 months between completion of work and its final
recording, the FMIS has made the system smooth and efficient. Senior officials now use the
FMIS to identify sample sites for field monitoring and supervision. This is unique in India.
Results of participatory M&E of VSSs, conducted with facilitative support from NGOs, were
used to identify capacity building needs of communities and their institutions, and corrective
measures were taken as required, for example identifying the need for a change in focus of NGO
services, from community mobilisation and institution building to livelihoods development. To
some extent, process monitoring was used for key decision making purposes (for example,
selection of VSSs for consolidation and livelihoods enhancement), but overall, the use of M&E
findings for project decision making could have been stronger8.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement
The procedures followed in procurement were in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and as agreed between GoAP and the Bank. Comprehensive procurement plans were
prepared, shared with the Bank, and updated accordingly. Bank staff carried out prior and ex-post
reviews of the procurement process; and reviewed and cleared procurement documents,
evaluation processes, negotiations (if any), contract award, and amendments as per the provisions
of the Credit Agreement. One issue emerged around the increasing construction cost of the new
APFD headquarters. The Bank responded quickly by despatching an independent
architect/quantity surveyor to review the design, construction status, materials, costs and site
characteristics. The review confirmed that the revised cost estimates were valid and the need for
the office space was justified.

Financial Management
A detailed functional manual on financial management was prepared as a part of the project
Implementation Plan (PIP), which was based on the agreed covenants in the project. The FMIS
included a financial management system, which maintained effective book keeping at the PMU
level as well as the implementation level. This module was linked to APFD's Forest Schedule of
Rates, ensuring adherence of reimbursement limits for various categories of expenditure budget
release and annual work programs. The project also prepared a financial manual to be used at the
VSS level and provided appropriate training to VSS members. In addition to APFD's internal
audit, the statutory audit by the Principal Accountant General of the GoAP was carried out
annually and the reports sent to the Bank. External audit was also implemented and no major
fraud was found that would trigger Bank sanctions. As suggested by the MTR, expenditure audit
for 5 percent of VSS was carried out by Chartered Accountant firms. This audit found certain
procedural lapses, such as delays in sanctioning estimates and filling completion reports; all of
8
  The Centre for People's Forestry (CPF), an NGO based in the Andhra Pradesh, carried out independent monitoring
of project VSSs with its own funds and support from Vanasamakhya (a state-level federation of 32 range-level
networks of VSS). Tools and methods used by the CPF were tested for social audit purposes, modified and then
incorporated by the project in its routine monitoring. Dialogue between APFD and CPF, based on its participatory
M&E findings contributed to improvement of APFD's CFM policies and development of APCFMP's livelihood
activities.


                                                      12
which were rectified. At the recommendation of the Bank, the internal audit wing of APFD also
applied a 100 percent check of all VSS's accounting books.

Environmental Management
Compliance with OP 4.01 on environmental assessment as well as compliance with OP 4.09 on
Pest Management is satisfactory. Environmental management was implicit in the design and
implementation. The project's aim was to improve forest cover and productivity with attendant
improvements in ecology and soil and moisture conservation. There were no major civil works in
the field. Under the project, bio-pesticides were developed for use against soil-borne insects and
pathogens. It also prepared an integrated pest management plan for plantations.

Social Safeguards
Compliance with social safeguards on indigenous people (OD 4.20) was satisfactory. As part of
the Social Assessment it was found that most of the 33 recognized tribal groups in the state lived
in forest fringe areas, and were disadvantaged. Under the project, focused attention was planned
to dovetail existing government programs, and ensure that these communities derived maximum
benefits from the project. In keeping with these planned provisions, a TDP as envisaged under
OD 4.20 was prepared and approved by the GoAP through issuance of GO Ms.No.10.

Compliance with social safeguards on involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) was also found to
be satisfactory. The project did not envisage any physical displacement. However, shifting-
cultivators' voluntary surrender of their degraded arable lands on state forests (resulting in a loss
of livelihood, irrespective that cultivating in forest land was illegal) was a major concern under
the project. GoAP prepared and approved a Resettlement & Rehabilitation policy and RAP, in
accordance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies under OD 4.30, passing GO Ms.No.68. The RAP
was implemented in full letter and spirit, and prior informed consent of all project affected
families (PAFs) was obtained as required. Issues and concerns arising on account of loss of
livelihood were adequately addressed through provision of alternative, individual or group-based
enterprise support options in areas where podu cultivators had surrendered their land for forest
development activities. The project established an Independent Advisory Group of retired judges
and forest officers, academics, and NGO representatives who were mandated to visit resettlement
areas and ensure this activity was being implemented as planned. This was a very positive and
successful development. It should be noted that during the entire project, no major concerns or
complaints were raised by civil society. In fact, there is ample documentation of NGOs praising
the project's approach to improving rural incomes of forest communities as well as the voluntary
resettlement of shifting cultivators.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides a legal guarantee for 100
days employment per year to adult members of poor rural households. The GoI outlay for the
scheme is INR39,100 crores (around US$8 billion) in fiscal year 2009-10. The GoAP is now
using NREGA resources maintain and expand CFM activities developed under this project. This
will provide a platform to carry forward the natural, human, financial and institutional capital
developed during APCFMP, and undertake forest development activities, in both project and
non-project VSS areas. APFD has prepared an annual action plan to cover 5,990 VSSs, with an
approved budget of INR248.5 crores (US$55.8 million) for the year 2010-11, which is about half
of the APCFMP's total budget. The model and lessons learned in the APCFMP are clearly being
replicated and scaled up, which is a major measure of success.
                                                13
An ongoing institutional framework to support CFM is being established by APFD, using the
Forest Development Agencies (FDA), established by the GoI for implementation of JFM,
through a coordinated approach with central government financing. FDAs will be strengthened to
serve all VSS in a given division, clustering them according to products. Finances can be directed
through the FDA to the VSS. The FDA may also serve as a conduit for technical advice from
non-APFD experts. In two divisions, there are substantial quantities of bamboo and eucalypt
resources and the need for expert planning for re-investment of revenues in further forest
development works. The FDAs have already incorporated all VSS as members, and FDAs in
other divisions will follow suit. The system of CEWs developed under the project will also be
continued, providing the link between APFD and the VSS, while civil society will also continue
to provide inputs under the direction of APFD. Training for VSS is proposed to be continued
through the Centre for Forestry and Natural Resource Management (CEFNARM) at Dulapalli,
which was transitioned from a government-financed operation to be self-financing under the
Registered Societies Act, generating and keeping its revenues and using the facilities at Dulapalli
and 14 Technology Development Centers (TDCs) for training, conferences, etc. Relevant forest
research will also be continued using revenues generated through CEFNARM in addition to
central government Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority9
funds.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective remains highly relevant to the development priorities of GoI and GoAP.
Substantial progress has been made in recent years in reducing poverty in the target areas.
Nevertheless, reduction of rural poverty and improved natural resource management with
community participation will continue to be the top priority of GoAP and APFD under
implementation of NREGA. In addition, an emphasis on participatory processes, inclusion of
vulnerable groups, and empowerment of VSS, with a focus on delegation of responsibilities,
including financial and forest resources planning and management, is highly relevant both in the
state's strategy and sector context.

Relevance of Design
As described earlier, there were certain weaknesses in the design, particularly with some of the
IO indicators. Nevertheless, the overall design to reduce rural poverty through CFM with
decentralized planning, as well as institutional development and institutional reform of APFD to
carry out CFM at both the VSS level and APFD, is still sound. At completion, around 7 million
of Standard Drawing Rights (XDR) credit funds remained undisbursed. While depreciation of the
INR (relative to the US$ and XDR) during the project period was a major factor, actual
expenditures to meet goals were less than estimated at appraisal, especially for component 3 ­



9
  CAMPA is a fund established in 2008 by the central government to receive monies paid by government and private
sector agencies to compensate for loss of forests from development activities. The funds are re-channeled to the
states to use for reforestation programs. The fund currently is valued at over US$2 billion.


                                                      14
Community Development. This lesson should be kept in mind if similar projects are planned in
future.

Relevance of Implementation
The financial disbursement procedure that the project was required to follow (according to GoAP
rules) proved challenging for the implementation of demand-driven CFM. In most years,
transfers of funds to the APFD from the Finance Department were often later than planned,
resulting in slippages of delivery against annual targets. After considerable communication with
the GoAP, this situation improved towards the end of the project. Also, the regimented and
hierarchical culture of the APFD (like other forest departments in India) was slow to change in
some divisions. To address this challenge, the APFD management was gradually able to relocate
field personnel into project areas that were more supportive of CFM and community
empowerment.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has substantially alleviated poverty among disadvantaged and vulnerable ST/SC
members in the project areas, while it successfully increased forest cover through mobilizing
communities.

Poverty Alleviation
M&E data, independent impact assessment studies commissioned by the project, VSS monitoring
studies conducted by the CPF, and anecdotal evidence gathered during the Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICRR) field visit suggest that the project contributed
significantly to the improvement of livelihoods and reduction of poverty through10:

       a) INR2,469.2 million or US$55.5 million (65 percent of the total forestry works) was
          disbursed as wage income to the project beneficiaries;
       b) 72 percent of the generated employment was provided to SC/ST members and 48 percent
          to female members;
       c) extraction of NTFPs increased by 53 percent or INR3,665/per household (HH) per year
          (US$82) and harvest of bamboo and timber resources (INR1,810/HH/year (US$41): PDO
          Indicator 2);
       d) the number of VSSs reporting migration has come down by 23 percent while average
          seasonal out migration for employment has come down by 37 percent and migration of
          women almost completely halted (PDO Indicator 3);
       e) provision of livelihood rehabilitation assistance for PAFs under RAP increased their real
          income by 40 percent over the base line value INR9,690 (US$2118) to INR13,585
          (US$305): Intermediate Outcome (IO) Indicator 4;
       f) more than 10 different types of activities were supported by the project (i.e. adda leaf,
          agarbathi, CBET, apiculture, sericulture, pisciculture, and vermicompost, among others),
          which provided some INR3,600 (US$81) per VSS member where NTFP available, and;
       g) income generation created through three main community enterprises - incense stick
          production, leaf plate production, and eco-tourism (INR1,740/HH/year (US$38) where
          available).


10
     The data (estimate) is based on a household income impact survey of sample 5,174 HHs drawn from 474 VSSs.


                                                        15
Annual harvest yields from eucalypt plantations alone, are estimated to average 180,000 m3
valued at INR220 million (US$5 million) as pulpwood over the next ten years. Bamboo from
plantations and rejuvenated bamboo forests is projected to average an annual outturn of 6,000
tonnes plus 5.2 million culms of long bamboo (INR93 million: US$2.1 million) over the next 10
years. A significant number of the institutionally stronger VSS groups are earning more than
INR1 million per year from (US$23,000) from bamboo or eucalyptus pulpwood sales. Pivoting
the project towards a stronger livelihoods focus and achieving the kind of results above were
major successes. It demonstrates that given sufficient technical support and investment, poor (and
in many cases tribal) forest-based communities can effectively manage forests to unlock
significant income opportunities.

Improved Forest Cover, Productivity and Management

Forest Cover: Continual and thorough protection of the forest by the communities has produced a
marked improvement in forest cover over much of the 1.3 million ha of natural forests within
project VSS management as well as providing enhanced stocking of trees, shrubs and
regeneration. Satellite imagery time series show that the "dense" (high quality closed) forest
category has increased by 28 percent from 2002 to 2008 (PDO Indicator 5).11 Anecdotal
evidences as well as independent NGO study also show that VSS members generally keep a
watch on areas allotted to them and have imposed self-regulations on use and extraction of forest
produce. Following the 2004 tsunami, and commencing in 2006, project funds were re-allocated
that resulted in establishment of a coastal bio-shield including 2,190 ha of rehabilitated mangrove
forests and a 200 km of Casuarina shelterbelts with involvement of 153 local communities, who
are benefiting from selective cutting and sales of various products.

Forest Productivity: The improved stocking of natural forests plus plantations has resulted in an
estimated increase of some 5.4 million m3 of wood between 2002 and 2008. Together with
plantations established, the total area treated to improve forest cover and productivity is 345,259
ha, compared to a target of 315,800 ha, with much of the additional treatments being plantations
established to improve short term income and gap or under-planting within the forests. Taking
eucalyptus as an example, project investments have resulted in genetically improved stock with
100-150 percent productivity gains and a reduction in rotation age from 10 years to 5-7 years.
Estimated incremental gains in harvest volumes on planted stock are 320,000 tonnes worth
INR640 million (US$14.4 million).12 These are impressive gains available to communities
supplying pulpwood to existing mills in the state, which are facing shortfalls in raw material.
Overall stocking gain in project areas is estimated at between 20 and 25 percent. By contrast, the
recent AP Forest Inventory Report indicates that overall in the state, forest growing stock has
decreased by 20 percent between 1995 and 2008, indicating that non-CFM forest areas continue
to suffer degradation.




11
  There is a decline in forest growing stock in AP by some 20 percent from 1995 (Forest Survey of India Report)
and 2008 (AP Forest Inventory Report). The VSS project forest area is about 30 percent of the total forest area,
where an increase of 10 to 12 percent of growing stock (without plantation growth) is estimated using AP Forest
Inventory data and satellite imagery time series.

12
     For more details, refer to Annex 2- attachment 7.


                                                         16
Forest Management: While skills of VSS members in forestry and soil and moisture
conservation (SMC) activities, for example thinning, coppicing, and harvesting have improved,
many VSSs are still developing their capacity to fully take charge of forest management
operations with minimal APFD's guidance and technical support. However, this is a gradual
evolutionary process requiring further support from APFD; some VSS have made more progress
than others. As many as 2,300 VSS under the project (of the 5,153 participating VSS) are now
operating fairly independently with respect to forest management, are generating significant
revenues from the forest, and have prepared sound reinvestment plans (PDO Indicator 4). This
suggests those VSSs with substantial forest resources are able to "assume full responsibility for
the development and maintenance of forest areas formally placed under their stewardship"
(specific intended outcome of the PDO). The development of a new computerized forest
inventory and the underlying system for future updating by the APFD is a major achievement in
India and will serve the state well in the future with respect to forest policy, planning and
management.

Community Participation

Microplans: Microplans were prepared for all 5,153 VSSs under the project (PDO Indicator 1
and 5), including the 153 communities associated with the tsunami mitigation work; it is
estimated that around 4,500 VSSs are protecting forest areas under their jurisdiction and carrying
out silvicultural practices in accordance with their approved microplans. The project has
demonstrated a model of CFM (unique in India) from which other states and donors can draw
critical lessons. In furtherance of CFM and to accord legal status to VSS, the project was able to
grant community rights over 392,000 ha of forest area to VSS institutions under the ST and Other
Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 (PDO Indicator 6).

Resettlement Action Plan: The project successfully executed the RAP, which directly provided
alternative livelihood support to 12,528 PAFs in 430 villages, which resulted in a 40 percent
increase in their real household income over the baseline (IO Indicator 4). The processes adopted
in identification of PAFs, obtaining their consent, informing them of entitlements and planning
for their livelihood improvement have been very transparent and effective. The vision and
commitment of the Bank and APFD to achieve stated objectives of RAP, and the role of the
Gram Sabha13 and NGOs in managing and resolving conflicts, as well as in planning and
capacity building is most commendable. Constitution of an Independent Advisory Group (IAG)
for grievance redressal was an effective strategy to provide greater transparency and objectivity
with the RAP initiative. The IAG was established through a Government Order with members
representing judiciary, civil society, and academia and forestry specialists. Implementation of the
RAP and its impact is recognized as a best practice model, both within the Bank and the state of
AP. It was gratifying to see newspaper articles from NGOs supporting the initiative.

Enterprise Development: As a result of the renewed focus on livelihood development, 2,283
Livelihood Development Plans were prepared and integrated with the VSS microplans. In total,
project livelihood development support was given to around 285,000 VSS members; a household
(HH) income impact survey by the Centre for Public Perception and Policy (CENPAP, 2010)
estimates that, where available, NTFP and enterprises generated INR3,665 (US$82) and

13
  Gram Sabha is an assembly of all village residents (women and men) who are above 18 years of age. They form
the electorate of the Gram Panchayat, which is the lowest level of elected self-government in villages.


                                                      17
INR1,740 (US$39) per HH per year respectively. These diversified income sources produced a
direct positive impact on poverty alleviation; the major beneficiaries being women (98 percent),
mostly belonging to SC/ST categories (94 percent).

3.3 Efficiency

Preliminary analysis reveals that the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is expected to be
about 19.7 percent for the entire project, which is only slightly lower than the PAD estimate of 21
percent. The reasons for the difference with the original ERR estimate cannot be determined
because the original ERR spreadsheets could not be located. Regardless, the ex-post ERR is still a
very positive result. The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for individual forest treatments ranged
between 12 to 25 percent, with Pongamia plantations being 12.2 percent, bamboo rejuvenation 25
percent, and eucalyptus plantations 18 percent. Incremental benefits from eleven forest treatments
are quantified in the ICRR using plantation models and aggregated for the project as a whole. In
addition, incremental benefits from three sets of CEGs (adda leaf, agarbathi and ecotourism) are
also included. Incremental benefits from RAP interventions are assessed for the 12,528 PAFs. All
project costs are included in the analysis at constant 2009 prices.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating of the Project is satisfactory. While the PDO was largely achieved,
minor shortcomings were seen in policy and institutional reform14 and a slower than expected
transition to CFM among some APFD staff. While VSS members' capabilities in conducting
financial and bank transactions as well as forest management planning and operation have been
considerably enhanced (with some VSS assuming full responsibility for the development and
maintenance of forest areas), many other VSSs are not yet ready to take full charge for these
tasks, and are still dependent on the CEWs/APFD frontline staff to varying degrees15. Many
communities need more time to mature and gain experience before they can revise their own
micro plans and keep full custody of the Cashbook, Measurement Book, and other records. This
reflects the fact that these transformations towards CFM are brought about through a gradual
process of change; the project has clearly made significant progress in initiating this process and
provides a good demonstration of what is possible in India with sufficient time and investment.
With the APFD now using NREGA funds to continue the CFM process started under the project,
it is anticipated that this transition will keep moving forward. As indicated in section 2.1, there
were certain deficiencies regarding quality at entry such as poorly defined KPIs.

On the other hand, component 2 (Forest Management) contributed significantly both to forest
protection and poverty alleviation from wage labor opportunities and incomes from forest assets
and was rated as Highly Satisfactory. Although RAP and livelihood development activities under
14
 As regards the amendment of the AP Forest Act, APFD has done what was agreed in the PAD, as shown in
Appendix 1 of Annex 2.

15
  As per the Social Audit Report, 1880 VSS have been categorized as falling in Grade C and D. It is estimated that
many of these VSS require further strengthening and support. However, because of the need to adhere to the Forest
Schedule of Rates (FSR) and stringent accounting procedures as well as new and unaccustomed silvicultural
procedures, preparation of microplanning and marketing of forest products, it is also unrealistic to expect all VSSs to
take on full responsibility at this stage.


                                                         18
Component 3 were initially behind schedule, completion of both activities by project completion
brought significant benefits to disadvantaged and vulnerable VSS members. RAP especially
demonstrated APFD's capacity to manage, in collaboration with NGOs, complex planning and
disbursement procedures in a highly transparent and participatory manner, and created a best
practice model with no actual physical displacement of people. The Bank and APFD were
flexible and proactive in managing issues; decisions to focus on livelihood development and
consolidate project outcomes with a focus on better performing VSSs contributed to successful
implementation with two one-year extensions. Collaboration with NGOs also created synergies
for better policy development and its implementation.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: VSS managed forest resources have enhanced forest productivity and income
and also diversified the sources of income for the project participating households. At 2009 real
prices, annual forest based income increased from INR1, 940 to 4,625 (US$44 to $104) per HH
by project-end. NTFP collection was the single source of forest-based income prior to the project.
But with VSS participation in forest management, income from NTFP collection increased by 53
percent. By the end of the project, annual HH income from forest sources included NTFPs (78
percent), timber harvest income (9 percent) and livelihood enterprise income (13 percent). More
importantly, NTFP and livelihood income are generated during the lean farming seasons, thereby
providing a more stable cash flow to the poor households.

Gender Aspects: Through the project, women have enhanced their participation in public affairs
and community decision-making. Mandatory representation of women in the General Body and
Management Committee, including their presence for completion of quorums has meant that
women's levels of awareness about VSS activities have risen considerably. Strong women's
leadership has also provided opportunities for greater participation of other women in VSS
decision-making and activities, including on financial matters (IO Indicator 2). Against a total
women's membership of 49 percent in the GB, representation of women in the Management
Committee is 53 percent; 10 percent of the VSSs have a woman elected as the Chairperson, and 3
percent VSS have women as both Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.

Social Development: Because of the nature of works entrusted to VSSs, there has been a process
of self-selection in membership, with the most resource poor and forest-dependent households
participating in VSS activities and becoming its members, which is in consonance with the GoAP
Comprehensive Orders on CFM (IO Indicator 3). The VSSs have developed as inclusive
institutions with adequate representation and involvement of vulnerable groups, indigenous
peoples and women in VSS works and decision-making forums; unlike many other village-level
institutions where decision-making is the prerogative of the dominant community or elite
members. By and large, VSS decisions are made by the poorer households, who are forest-
dependent and belong to the SC/ST communities, except in a few cases where the more dominant
village households (from socially and/or economically higher categories) are found to hold sway.
The autonomy in decision-making enjoyed by the SC/ST VSS population is an empowering
process, and in the long run, is expected to bring about changes in social and political dynamics
in rural communities.

Institutional Change/Strengthening
                                               19
Policy Reform: GoAP as well as APFD showed commitment to bring about the necessary policy
reform through proactive measures, including issuance of appropriate GOs, establishing the
framework for CFM (intermediate outcome indicator 1); defining benefit-sharing arrangements in
respect of forest produce from VSS areas; and delegation of financial and administrative powers
to frontline APFD staff, including rationalization and re-distribution of work responsibilities.

As per the PAD, it was agreed that the GoAP and APFD would amend the AP Forest Act (1967)
to provide a legal framework for CFM. Pursuant to this, the APFD forwarded a proposal to the
GoI seeking permission for insertion of a chapter on CFM in the Act; having received
concurrence for the same, the proposal was forwarded to the GoAP, cleared by Cabinet and is
now waiting action by parliament. In the meantime, the GoI passed the Scheduled Tribes and
Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, which recognizes
and vests the forest rights and occupation in forest land to ST and other traditional forest
dwellers, including "the right to protect, regenerate or conserve or manage any community forest
resource which they have been traditionally protecting and conserving for sustainable use."
Pending enactment of the amended AP Forest Act, 1967 by the GoAP, and given the overlapping
objective of the Recognition of Forest Rights Act in respect of community rights, it was decided
to invoke provisions of the said Act to grant legal status to eligible VSS. Accordingly, 1, 970
VSS with 100 percent ST membership have been granted community rights over allocated forest
land.

Institutional Reform: Based on a meticulous review of work load and time available for officers
and subordinates of various ranks, necessary institutional reforms regarding delegation of
financial and administrative powers were effected in 2004; financial transactions, which had
hitherto been confined to the level of the Forest Section Officer (FSO), were devolved down to
the Forest Beat Officer (FBO), who was also authorized to check and record measurements for
monitoring & making payments. Further, with direct transfer of funds from the District Forest
Officer (DFO) to the VSS joint account (`government' account) on a quarterly basis, the funds
flow mechanism to the VSS was simplified and made transparent. The practice of maintaining a
cashbook for VSS at the Section and Range levels was dispensed with, and the VSS Cashbook is
now recognized as the primary record of accounts for works carried out in VSS areas by APFD.
These reforms have not only reduced paperwork, but also lent credibility to the institution and
works of APFD, while simultaneously ensuring smooth, timely and unrestricted flow of funds to
the VSS.

Capacity Building: The project evolved a strategy for training and outreach based on a
systematic training needs assessment of stakeholders. The establishment of CEFNARM at
Dulapalli and 14 Technology Dissemination Centers has already been discussed in Section 2.5.
The project provided training to 382,397 persons in (i) forest management; (ii) financial
management; (iii) social development; (iii) marketing management; and (v) information
technology (see Annex 2 for details).
Additional Outcomes and Impacts (Positive or Negative)

Improved ground water with resultant improved vegetation and agricultural productivity: The
introduction of various soil and moisture conservation structures as part of forest improvement
under the project has resulted in significant improvements in ground water and vegetation cover.
Sample studies showed 50 percent of open and bore wells in project VSS areas had higher water
tables compared to a 36 percent increase in non-project VSS. Similarly, vegetation cover
                                              20
improvement was 12 percent higher in project areas; many species of NTFPs have reappeared,
particularly in former podu areas. The increased water levels have enhanced agricultural yields in
lands associated with project VSS (19 percent higher) as well as increasing the number of crops
grown; both would have brought positive impacts on poverty.

Increase in wildlife presence in project VSS forest area: There is persistent anecdotal evidence
that wildlife is returning to forests under project VSS control. This is most likely as a result of
improved forest habitat, including enhanced regeneration and shrub growth providing browsing
opportunities, plus the increased availability of water.

Reduction in numbers of unproductive cattle and small ruminants in VSS areas: With VSS
taking charge of forest protection in areas allotted to them, many communities have devised
innovative systems to self-regulate the use of forest areas. In most places, this meant a need to
stop or control grazing in forest areas. As a result, most families either disposed of their
unproductive cattle, or replaced them with high-yielding breeds. Grazing of goats in VSS areas
was almost universally banned, particularly in the northern district of Adilabad. In the project
area as a whole, however, there has been an increase in income from livestock because of breed
improvement and better livestock management.

No uptake of forest carbon financing opportunities: By establishing higher quality forests, an
opportunity existed to develop forest carbon financing through the voluntary global carbon
market as an additional source of income to communities. The APFD explored this option with
qualified consultants, but decided the initial investment and transaction costs were too high
relative to estimated benefits. Further, it was not clear how the longer term monitoring and
verification costs could be covered by communities.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Stakeholder Workshop

A stakeholders' consultation workshop was organized at Dulapalli on March 4, 2010. A total of
120 individuals participated in the workshop16. The following observations were made:

     a) Wage days have increased due to forestry works, and equal wages have led to enhanced
        household income, with a reduction in seasonal out-migration. School drop outs have
        reduced, and there is an increased focus on health and education. There is increased social
        and political awareness.
     b) Members have received monetary benefits, and the poorest of poor, identified through
        micro-planning, have also been provided skill based training to strengthen their
        livelihoods. Training in value-addition and processing have brought about an increase in
        earnings from forest produce (e.g., income from adda leaf, incense sticks and honey).
        Many VSS members have received income from bamboo and timber harvest; in Isojipeta
        VSS, 16 families received INR63,700 (US$1,431) each from harvest of eucalyptus
        plantation.



16
  There were 36 officials from the APFD, 13 representatives from NGOs, 11 CEWs, 54 VSS members, including 13
Chairpersons/ Vice-chairpersons; and 6 facilitators from CPF; a total of 27 forest divisions were represented in the
workshop.


                                                       21
   c) The status of women in society has improved as they are financially independent and have
      greater role in community decision making. VSS members are contributing more to thrift
      funds.

At the same time, participants identified key areas where further support is needed:

   a) Microplans were not always prepared in a participatory manner in the Gram Sabha;
      forestry and other developmental works should be carried out only if at least 60 percent of
      the VSS general body members are in agreement.
   b) For sustainability of benefits under CFM, further capacity building support for VSS
      would be required, along with regular conduct of review meetings, facilitative support for
      six-monthly and annual VSS general body meetings, and awareness camps among non-
      members; training should be imparted to all VSS members and in a simple manner that
      they can follow.
   c) VSS records, except the muster rolls, are in custody of and maintained by the APFD;
      these should be entrusted to the respective VSS, with regular monitoring by APFD. There
      are delays by the APFD in issuance of permits for bamboo harvest, causing loss to VSS;
      the process needs to be simplified so that there are no delays in future; further, activities
      and trainings should be organized for bamboo harvesting and value addition.
   d) Market linkage support is crucial; enterprise development activities such as agarbathi
      stick making (Annapureddypalli VSS), adda leaves, bodha grass (Ammagaripalli VSS),
      etc. would realize their potential of income augmentation through such support. In
      addition, further support is needed to develop stronger entrepreneurial attitudes and skills
      in many VSSs as part of the evolution towards becoming independent forest enterprises.
   e) Lack of coordination between the Gram Panchayat and VSS is a constant challenge that
      requires policy and facilitative support. Networks of VSS should be formed across the
      state, and VSS provided recognition as a legal institution.

These messages are not unexpected. For example, longer-term training would be required for
many VSSs that were not viewed as institutionally strong. The issue of who holds VSS records
reflects older thinking from some APFD field staff, which will take more time to fully address.
Improving coordination between Gram Panchayats (local authorities) and the VSS represents
normal tensions as decentralization takes hold in India. It is expected that post-project operations
being financed by other sources (see section 2.5) will support these needs.

A second stakeholders' workshop was held on March 11, 2010 to focus on implementation of the
R&R/RAP component. Highlights of the workshop included:

   a) APFD staff and facilitating NGOs faced many challenges in correct and complete
      identification of PAFs in the initial stages because of distrust between village
      communities and APFD, and their lack of confidence in the implementation of RAP.
      Through regular meetings, training, orientation and other confidence-building measures,
      an atmosphere of mutual trust was established, which facilitated further activities.
      Measures adopted for identification of PAFs included series of discussions in Gram
      Sabha, one-on-one discussions with potential PAFs and village elders, confidential
      enquiry, GPS survey and physical verification of podu land, preparation of podu affected
      maps, and public disclosure of final list of PAFs.



                                                22
   b) Land-based activities included improvement to agricultural land and productivity,
      livestock, and inland fishing. It is estimated that per acre income levels have risen
      between INR15,000 (US$337) and INR25,000 (US$562) annually.
   c) Some of the other livelihood support interventions provided under RAP include mini
      grocery stores, cycle repair shops, tent house material, rice and flour mills, etc.
   d) NGOs were instrumental in bridging the chasm between the APFD and the affected
      communities to make RAP implementation a reality. Convergence and collaboration with
      other departments was also facilitated by NGOs:


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Potential effects of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition
of Forest Rights) Act, 2006: As indicated earlier, under this Act, forest lands have been allocated
to ST and other forest dwelling communities with the right to cultivate these lands for subsistence
purposes. While the Act was intended to undo the historical injustice done to these communities
at the time of Land Settlement, it has been witnessed in some areas of the state that cultivators,
including some from Chhattisgarh, are encroaching forest areas in the hope of obtaining
entitlements to the land at some unknown point in future. By strengthening VSS capacities and
building a stronger sense of community forest ownership, the project has helped VSSs resist these
encroachments. Clearly the project has reduced this impact, but the possibility of future conflicts
and threat to forest resources under VSS protection is real. Addressing this situation in the future
may require increased education by the APFD and Tribal Affairs Department to potential
encroachers about the Act and that new encroachment past the existing cut-off date will not result
in land rights. (Risk: Moderate)

Lack of legal recognition of VSS: One of the project outcomes mentioned in the PAD is
provision of a legal status to VSSs, through amendment of the AP Forest Act, 1967. Until
Parliament passes the amendments currently before it, CFM hinges on a set of government
orders, which may be unilaterally revoked by the government. However, in the opinion of the
ICRR team, this is a negligible risk, as the government has shown a high degree of commitment
to the cause, and the CFM program now appears to be well-entrenched in the state. (Risk:
Negligible)

Conflicts and elite capture of enriched forest resources: With enhanced productivity of forest
areas and an increasing flow of economic benefits from them, there is the possibility of increased
conflicts among and between VSS members and non-members. There may also be attempts by
locally dominant groups to seize the functioning of the VSS and benefits (elite capture). Systems
and norms for cost and benefit-sharing are still evolving, and there is a need for facilitative
support, particularly in areas that have mixed membership and where high value teak forests are
due for harvest in the future. (Risk: Moderate)




                                                23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank: Satisfactory

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated `satisfactory'. Project preparation was
efficient and included a detailed Project Implementation Plan and linkage with key country/state
and sectoral issues. However, the PDO indicators and log-frame were poorly formulated and
inadequate to fully capture project impacts and outcomes. In addition, the original design did not
fully elaborate livelihood development options even though the focus on poverty alleviation was
clear in the PDO.

Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Bank supervision is rated `satisfactory'. Good recommendations were provided to the APFD
through regular supervision. The Bank was responsive to changing demands of the project for
achievement of the PDO and encouraged flexibility and measured risk taking by APFD to
gradually `let go' of some forest management responsibilities and devolve them to communities.
The Bank supported GoAP policy and institutional reform throughout the project, which
facilitated creation of an enabling environment for CFM in the state (see Attachment 1: Policy
and Institutional Reform Matrix of Annex 2). The lack of focus on livelihood development in the
original project design was mitigated through more frequent supervision from 2005. Change of
Bank's Task Team Leaders twice resulted in some gaps in handing over and follow-up (i.e. the
revision of the log-frame carried out during the MTR was not officially filed). At the same time
however, the third Task Team Leader stayed with the project for four years until closure,
providing sustained focus and continuity. Complementary external expertise enriched project
activities and especially contributed to livelihoods development.

5.2    Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

Government Performance
Government performance in supporting project preparation and implementation is rated
`satisfactory'. The GoAP made a strong commitment to the CFM approach through issuance of
GOs and providing other forms of support to enable its implementation. Furthermore, GoAP is
determined to carry CFM forward by maintaining and expanding the project achievements by the
use of NREGA funds. On the other hand, GoAP's decision to transfer all financial authority for
procurement from the APFD to Department of Finance resulted in more cumbersome processing
and delays in project disbursements.

Implementing Agency Performance
Implementing agency's performance is rated as "satisfactory." The project exceeded its physical
targets, and all indicators to measure project performance are very positive. To a large extent,
APFD's systematic approach to forestry, as well as its traditional but effective top-down
approach (which this project tried to change), played a key role in delivering the outputs. There is
no doubt that APFD officers at all levels have undergone varying degrees of change of
perspective/attitude towards forest communities, particularly observable in their role from
regulators to facilitators. However, the shift to implementing CFM as envisioned in the PAD still

                                                24
has some way to go. Although the APFD is arguably considered the most progressive forest
department in the country and has displayed innovation and adaptability in achieving the PDO, it
needs further institutional reform in order to continue evolving into a more flexible institution.
The APFD has demonstrated how to bring substantial economic benefits to communities in
remote rural areas, where other agencies either do not have a presence, or are ineffective in their
service delivery. Achievements in RAP areas in particular are a testimony to this fact.


6. Lessons Learned

Policy and Institutions
Clear agreement between the Bank and the client on necessary policy changes can lead to a
sound framework for project implementation: Agreement reached during negotiations on the
need for, and development of CFM and resettlement/rehabilitation policies led to a consultative
process and adoption of these policies prior to credit effectiveness. The process considered the
views and concerns of VSS members, NGOs and representatives of other departments and
agencies in a transparent and participatory manner. GOs issued prior to start of the project and in
the course of its implementation created a solid foundation for APFD to transform JFM to CFM,
particularly in the areas of the project's operational procedures, including planning and financial
management, and benefit-sharing arrangements between the VSS and GoAP.

Required internal institutional reforms for CFM require time and commitment by forest
departments. In India, forest department field officers mainly carry out regulatory and
enforcement duties with communities. Policy changes enacted by the APFD under the project
delegated new responsibilities for financial and administrative powers from FSOs to FBOs. This
meant an increased workload at the FBO level and a significant transformation in their approach
to dealing with communities, which proved challenging for some staff. Suitable restructuring of
the terms and conditions of employment for field staff would have helped to formalize these
arrangements, but these kinds of administrative policy changes in both the Indian and State Forest
Services will take considerable time. The APFD helped address the challenge of shifting attitudes
and skill sets of field staff from a command and control approach to a more facilitative role with
communities through training and by transferring staff into project areas that were more
amenable to CFM. At the same time, direct transfer of funds from the DFO to VSS accounts
empowered communities, ensured transparency in financial dealings and enhanced the degree of
awareness among VSS office-bearers and members.

Strong, sustained and visionary leadership is required to support a shift from JFM to CFM. To
fully empower VSS groups to manage their forests requires sustained commitment by the forest
department. The project benefited from the continued presence of a core team of senior officers
in the project office, and highly supportive Principal Chief Conservator of Forests who had a
shared vision for CFM. The Bank supported this by organizing relevant international exposure
visits for selected APFD staff and bringing experts from China and Latin America to share their
experiences with community forestry.

Community groups will vary in terms of their own commitment and performance. During the
project, VSS groups emerged with different levels of institutional capacity, commitment and
performance. Stronger groups were able to transform into fairly independent forest enterprises.
A key lesson is that it is important to track VSS performance early on from a common baseline

                                               25
using a range of institutional indicators and provide appropriate support in-line with the VSS
goals, capacity and leadership.

Cooperation with NGOs is essential when working with communities. The project worked
closely with many NGOs, especially at the inception phase, to formulate government orders in
respect of the CFM framework; for community mobilization, and for preparation of VSS
microplans. In particular, NGOs played a significant role in the design and implementation of
activities under the RAP. The project has demonstrated the positive impact of synergistic
relationships between civil society and government forestry organizations.

Resettlement Action Plan
Transparent knowledge of entitlements enhances trust and participation and paves the way for
more cordial relations between implementing agency and the target/affected group.
Implementation of the resettlement/rehabilitation program was preceded by substantial capacity
building and awareness creation with the support of highly qualified NGOs. The PAFs had a very
high awareness of the entitlement framework. Such transparency ensures participation and
reduces potential of future conflicts.

Creation of an independent body for monitoring RAP is essential. The project established the
IAG with representation from a range of highly respected external stakeholders. This body
provided a transparent and objective review of implementation of this component and helped
ensure that grievances from beneficiaries were properly addressed.

Livelihood Development
Early development of a viable income stream for communities is important to achieving CFM
status and sustainability. At the MTR it was agreed that greater emphasis would be placed on
livelihood promotion activities to enhance household incomes. This resulted in the establishment
of CEGs, federated into clusters with common facility centers, which acted as
production/supply/storage centers, as well as market focal points. Receipt of early revenue from
forest resources and its reinvestment in forest management, as planned by the community, was
significant in developing the link between sustaining forest management over the forests assigned
to the VSS and seeing tangible cash benefits. It also helped develop a stronger sense of financial
independence among participating communities with respect to their forests as opposed to simply
being wage laborers for forest department programs under JFM. The APFD and the Bank were
adaptive in their approach to accelerate early revenues to the communities from forests through
various treatments to maintain a sustained interest in CFM among the participating communities.
VSSs were quite aware of their roles, responsibilities and benefit sharing entitlements, and the
need for reinvestment of at least 50 percent of the net benefit back into the forest as per the
micro-plan.

Development of forest treatment and livelihood packages based on individual community's
existing forest resources and preferred livelihood demands requires a focused, market-driven
approach, and committed support. The project's cluster approach to value addition and
marketing proved extremely effective, in conjunction with Community-Public-Private sector
partnerships for commercial pulpwood, adda plates, and incense sticks. Forest based livelihood
development requires a site-specific and market driven approach, but concurrently, communities
need time to build capacities and gain experience, supported by motivators and facilitators.


                                               26
Simple livelihood development and Self-Help Group (SHG) programs help the most vulnerable
group members who do not have high value adding skills. The benefit margin of adopting low
technology skills is usually modest, but this approach helped participation of women in many
enterprises promoted by the project, which led to their economic empowerment. The nature of
many enterprises (often home-based industries ­ incense sticks, adda leaf plates, etc.) allowed
women (especially older women who often do not have opportunities to gain incomes) to work
flexible hours from their homes, while simultaneously attending to other household chores.

Commercial wood production can accelerate ownership of CFM by communities. This project
was unique in India by allowing communities to retain 100 percent of the gross revenue from
commercial timber and pulpwood from new plantations or degraded stands rehabilitated through
natural regeneration and other interventions. The APFD deserves credit for issuing the enabling
GOs and also for facilitating business links between the state's pulp and paper companies and
communities able to produce commercial pulpwood. Many of these communities are now earning
more than INR1 million per annum, reinvesting half the revenues into sustainable forest
management, and the remainder for community development. As rehabilitated teak forests come
on stream, these revenues will be even more substantial. Commercial timber is valuable and
provides a powerful incentive for communities to maintain and as shown in this project, improve
their forest resources.

Applied research can improve forest productivity. Applied research played a key role in
increasing forest productivity, particularly through improving planting materials of both timber
and non-timber species, and the treatment of teak forests. Relevant research programs were
continued from the previous APFP, strengthened, and additional programs added as required.
This included the development of world class programs to improve clonal material for eucalypts,
NTFPs and teak. The basic premise was that improving forest productivity would increase
growth and yield, and subsequently expand community forest revenues.

Monitoring and Evaluation
Independent monitoring should be supportive of internal M&E processes. M&E should ideally
be an internally-driven process that incorporates the existing system of information flow and
requirements of officers at different levels for decision making. Independent monitoring should
then complement internal M&E systems. For M&E under this project, many consultancies and
studies were commissioned, resulting in significant amounts of information and data. However,
these studies were not always linked with internal M&E processes, which in some cases limited
the use of these studies for internal decision making.

Replicating the Andhra Pradesh Model
Replicating the model in other states will require careful assessment of lessons learned. Andhra
Pradesh is known as a progressive state, with a strong political willingness to try new approaches.
Successful replication of this model in other states must be based on a willingness of the
government and forest department to make a meaningful shift from JFM to CFM, particularly
with the forest department becoming a facilitator with communities; sustained, committed, and
visionary leadership in the forest department; focusing on improving both forest productivity and
community livelihoods; strengthening forest tenure to communities and allowing retention of all
gross revenues for new forests; and investing sufficient time and resources to build strong
capacities in both communities and the forest department.

                                               27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
There are no dissenting comments by the borrower. From Annex 7, the borrower has indicated
that the contents of the draft ICR are in tune with the achievements and accomplishments of the
Project and there are no additional comments.

(b) Cofinanciers
As indicated in Annex 8, the project did not involve other co-financiers or major partners.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
As summarized in section 3.6 and Annex 6, a stakeholder workshop identified major
achievements and areas where further support could be needed.




                                               28
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


Table A-1. Project cost by component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                        millions)
1. Enabling environment for
                                        20.61             32.03               155
    community forest management
 2. Forest management                   71.97             73.15               102
3. Community development                 21.98             11.94               54
           Total Baseline Cost          114.56            117.12              102

Physical Contingencies
                                          2.14                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                          8.92              0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs        125.62            117.12               93
Front-end fee PPF                         1.50              0.00              .00
     Total Financing Required           127.12            117.12               92



Table A-2. Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
Borrower                             Counterpart     18.91         17.57         93
International Development
                                                     108.00           99.55          92
Association (IDA)




                                            29
                                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Establishing Enabling Environment for CFM

1.1        Policy Development

The PAD envisaged establishment of a policy development group within APFD, completing
policy relevant studies, and organization of stakeholder consultations for policy development. All
of these were accomplished by the project within the first 2-3 years of its start, and these policy
changes continue to influence implementation of CFM in the state17. The following policy and
legal achievements were made through the project:

Government Orders: The most significant achievements towards creation of an enabling policy
and institutional environment for CFM in the state have been in the following respects:

       a) Clear entitlements and benefit-sharing framework: Through issuance of the GOs 13 (dated
          12.02.2002) and 4 (dated 12.01.2004), developed through a process of extensive and
          intensive consultation with a wide range of stakeholders, GoAP has very clearly laid
          down the benefit-sharing arrangements in respect of NTFPs, all usufructs including
          intermediate yields, bamboo, and timber from teak as well as other plantations and natural
          forests.18

       b) Representation of women: GO No. 13 (Dt. 12.2.2002) laid down the mandatory
          representation of women in the VSS decision-making body by specifying that at least 8 of
          the 15 member Managing Committee shall comprise women; in addition, either one or
          both of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be a woman.

       c) Easing financial constraints in forestry: Through amendment of the APFD Code (vide GO
          2, dated 7.01.2004), GoAP has recognized the VSS as an institution for implementation of
          works and managing financial allocations; it has authorized the VSS account for receipt of
          project funds and transfer of revenue from CFM for forest development activities, thus
          easing financial constraints on the forestry sector to some extent. The regular stream of
          benefits envisaged from harvest of plantations both through the project and otherwise, is
          expected to result in sizeable investments through VSS in improving forest productivity
          and/or developing forests.

       d) Financial transparency and administrative decentralization: The VSS cashbook has been
          recognized as the primary record of the forest department, reducing repetitive paperwork
          pertaining to the VSS at the Section and Range Offices. Through GO 2, greater
          transparency in financial dealings has been ensured, and is likely to contribute to

17
  The actions proposed in PAD in respect of policy and institutional reforms, and the corresponding outputs at the
end of the project, are placed at Attachment 1 to this annex (Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix).

18
     Details of the same are provided in Attachment 2.


                                                         30
         empowerment of the VSS as a self-reliant institution. There was delegation of financial
         and administrative powers from the FSO to the FBO, with responsibility for recording the
         Measurement-Book being given to the FBO, who was hitherto bereft of any financial or
         administrative responsibilities.

      e) Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy: The R&R policy was revised after a series of
         consultations at Range, Division and state levels during 2003, and notified by the GoAP
         through a GO dated 25.05.2004. The RAP was prepared covering all the VSS in the state
         that were implementing the project; the policy is applicable to all areas and people
         dependent on forest land, without limiting it to any single project.

Legal Status of VSS and AP Forest Act, 1967: One of the enduring concerns with the CFM
framework in the state has been the absence of a legal status for VSS, which was proposed to be
rectified through amendment of the AP Forest Act, 1967. Currently, the bases for CFM in the
state are the policy directives and GOs issued from time to time, which specify the institutional
and benefit-sharing arrangements, but lack a strong legal foundation. As per the PAD, it was
agreed that the GoAP and APFD would suitably amend the AP Forest Act, 1967 to provide a
legal framework for CFM. Pursuant to this, the APFD forwarded a proposal to the GoI seeking its
permission to insert a chapter on CFM in the existing Act; having received concurrence for the
same, the proposal was forwarded to the GoAP, where the legal amendment is pending before
Cabinet.

In the meantime, the GoI passed the 2006 RoFR Act, which recognizes and vests the forest rights
and occupation of forest land in ST and other traditional forest dwellers, including "the right to
protect, regenerate or conserve or manage any community forest resource, which they have been
traditionally protecting and conserving for sustainable use." Pending enactment of the amended
AP Forest Act, 1967 by the GoAP, and given the overlapping objective of the RoFR Act in
respect of community rights, it was decided to invoke provisions of the said Act to grant legal
status to eligible VSS. Accordingly, 1,970 VSS in the state with 100 percent ST membership
have been granted community rights over 379,000 ha of forest land.

Less than 10 percent (390) of total project-supported VSS have been formed in areas designated
as Wildlife Divisions, and therefore fall in the protected areas, being governed under provisions
of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. Being protected areas (sanctuaries or national parks) these
forests are legally accorded a higher degree of protection, to be managed for the specific
objective of protection and conservation of wildlife. Protection of forests is a very important
function and outcome of CFM. Further in Andhra Pradesh, the Andhra Pradesh Forest Act 1967
is in operation, concurrent with the Indian Forest Act 1927. Ecotourism activities undertaken in
some of these areas have proved very successful. Entitlements committed in the CFM policy of
AP (GO 13 and GO 4) are categorical in that the policy specifies that silvicultural operations
including harvesting will be carried out in accordance with the silvicultural principles laid down
in the respective Working Plans and schedule detailed in respective micro-plans of the VSS that
will have approval of the APFD.

1.2      APFD Institutional Development

The training and capacity building interventions spanned a range of initiatives at different levels,
including training, workshops and seminars, study tours, establishment of new training centers
and upgrading of existing ones. The project contributed to both software and hardware
                                                31
development aspects of the implementing agency through support for human resource and
infrastructure development respectively; the total cost incurred for APFD institutional
development was around INR142.7 million (US$3.2 million); 76 percent of this was utilized for
human resource development and 24 percent for development of infrastructure and procurement
of equipment and vehicles (Figure A-1).

        Figure A-1. Cost of Capacity Building of Government Agency (activity-wise)




A strategy for training and outreach was developed following a systematic training needs
assessment conducted by an external agency, and thrust areas and themes for capacity building
were identified in consultation with project stakeholders, particularly the field staff.
Subsequently, training programs were offered by the Andhra Pradesh Forest Academy (APFA),
the Research Wing of the APFD, NGOs and CEWs, other institutes as well as APFD staff at
Range and Division levels in the following areas: (i) Forest Management; (ii) Financial
Management; (iii) Social Development; (iv) Marketing Management; and (iv) Information
Technology (the last for APFD staff only).

Human resource and institution development: The APFA was the central training hub for
project-supported training programs. A total of INR101.4 million was spent towards capacity
building at the state-level, including workshops, training programs and production of training
materials; most of these were organized and conducted by APFA, which received a huge impetus
during the course of Project implementation. The APFA has a number of experienced and
competent faculty and resource persons; as of 2007-08, it deployed the services of 560 faculty
members (463 external and 97 internal) to organize the training events. The trainee data base of
APFA (Table A-3) shows that between 2003-04 and 2009-10, a total of around 397,000
personnel were trained at APFA as well as regional research centers at Hyderabad, Tirupathi,
Warangal and Rajahmnundry, and designated training centers such as TDCs. The training
programs covered the entire gamut of stakeholders from VSS members, CEWs, NGO workers,
and field staff to senior APFD personnel. The number of FD personnel alone trained during this
period was close to 100,000, which includes officials having received more than one round of
training. The topics found most relevant and useful by the staff related to SMC works,

                                              32
silvicultural techniques, communication skills, accounting procedures, NTFP value addition, and
information technology (GIS in particular); staff in Nellore Division, where clonal plantations
have been a remarkable success, cited training in modern nursery techniques as most useful.

As a part of human resource development, the project dispatched APFD's officers to: (i) China
(2 Officers) to study Bamboo enterprises; Canada (5 Officers) to acquire knowledge on forest
management in the country and participate in the World Forestry Congress; and (iii) Tanzania,
South Africa and Malaysia (5 Officers) to study Participatory Forest Management and
Ecotourism activities. In total, INR12.55 million (US$282,000) was spent for these overseas
trainings.

       Table A-3. Number of persons trained at APFA between 2003-04 and 2009-10
                                                              Trainee Type
                                                                                 NGO
             Training Type                     VSS              APFD
                                                                               workers &
                                              Members          personnel
                                                                                CEWs
       1     Forestry ­ technical aspects       83,527             27,189            210
       2     Financial Management               73,580             29,537            650
       3     Social development aspects         92,422             23,965          1,202
       4     Study Tours                        20,249              6,614            669
       5     Seminars                           12,833             12,681         11,999
             Total (Accumulative)              282,611             99,986         14,730

The Research Wing of APFD also carried out training programs for project stakeholders on
various aspects of transfer of technology, along with interactive workshops and seminars at a
total cost of INR2.7 million (US$61,000); details of training carried out in applied research areas
is provided in Table A-4 below. The result of these trainings are observed in improved skill levels
of staff (and eventually higher forest productivity), and higher awareness and technical
competency of VSS members.

Table A-4. Trainings on Transfer of Technology conducted by the Research Wing of APFD
                                        No. of               Number of persons trained
     Type of Training                 trainings
                                                       VSS    APFD      NGO     CEW        Total
                                     conducted
  1 Propagation of medicinal              4            40     38       0        0        78
    plants
  2 Multi-locational clonal trials       7         129        85        7       0        221
  3 Workshops on bamboo                  6         236       142       32       0        410
  4 Interactive seminars                29          89       732        6       0        827

To sustain the capacity building initiatives of the project, an autonomous institution, viz., the
CEFNARM was registered in 2007; institution building support of INR2.2 million (US$50,000)
was provided by the project for the purpose. CEFNARM benefits from the experience gained by
APFA under the project, and functions from the premises of APFA. It also has the mandate to
conduct action research and coordinate activities of the Research, Extension and IT Wing of the
APFD, apart from coordinating and spearheading training programs, and has been recognized by
the GoI for conducting regular and specialized training programs for forest department personnel.

                                                  33
Lessons learnt through the Project are likely to be carried forward and disseminated further
through the activities of CEFNARM.

Infrastructure development: The Aranya Bhavan at Hyderabad, which houses the consolidated
headquarters of the APFD, was also constructed under the project, with 98 percent of the total
cost of building , INR 248.9 out of INR252.7 million (or US$5.7 million) being financed by the
project.

APFA was established as the State Institute for Forest Training in 1987 and underwent significant
infrastructural expansion under APFP. It was renamed APFA in 2001 and supported through
APCFMP with the addition of a hostel and an indoor stadium, making it a comprehensive central
training facility for undertaking and coordinating a wide range of training programs for APFD
and stakeholders of the APCFMP. Facilities also include a conference hall, classrooms, computer
laboratory, and library. It also houses the APFD Geomatics Centre and the CEFNARM.

Central nurseries in each of the 14 project districts were upgraded and structurally enhanced to
function as TDCs, which act as training and demonstration hubs for neighboring Divisions. Apart
from nursery facilities producing seedlings for continuing planting programs, they have lecture
rooms and demonstration plots for various species of trees, NTFPs and medicinal plants; some
have overnight accommodation for trainees. The TDCs have been used throughout the project as
a means to decentralize and disseminate improved technologies by making them more accessible
to the staff and VSS. The TDCs are expected to continue to function as an interface between the
VSSs and APFD, with links to and coordination of training by CEFNARM.

1.3    Community Institution Capacity Building

A specific outcome of the PDO was "for the poor and primarily forest-dependent communities to
assume full responsibility for the development and maintenance of forest areas formally placed
under their stewardship." This outcome, in the context of the project design, essentially translates
into establishment of self-reliant and capable VSSs. The project intended to achieve this specific
outcome through training and project activities under Component 2 and 3.

Membership, participation and decision-making in VSS: Barring a small percentage of VSS,
membership in VSS is predominantly from among ST/SC households. However, the findings of
the participatory evaluation indicate that there is still a need for VSS to be facilitated to review
and renew membership: while in 54 percent of cases, all SC and ST families in the village are
members of the VSS (as stipulated), in 34 percent of VSS there are still some SC and ST families
that are not members and/or not aware of their eligibility to be members; in 9 percent of VSS,
some SC/ST members have been left out as other communities are unwilling to allow them
membership. It is possible that migration that had probably occurred earlier (while enrolment of
members was done) may be a reason for this. This needs to be looked into to take required
ameliorative measures. These findings also seem to reflect the usual range of internal community
dynamics and capabilities across a large project with over 5,000 participating VSSs.

VSS members training: As shown in Table 1, the project trained a total of around 283,000 VSS
members (cumulative). Initially, such training focused on three key areas ­ forest management,
financial management and social development, targeting mainly VSS Management Committees
and some active members. Around the MTR, and reflecting the change of project focus, the
project started providing training related to livelihood development such as NTFP development,

                                                34
value addition and marketing, and bamboo product development and utilization. The project used
local study tours and seminars as means for such livelihood development training, and TDCs
became the centers of such livelihood development. In addition, the Research Wing of APFD
trained more than 6,600 VSS members in various topics as in Table 2. A total of 133 training
programs were organized for RAP activities. Of the total 12,528 PAFs, around 3,904 PAFs (31
percent) are trained for skill up-gradation in livelihood based activities. These were mainly
conducted by the local NGOs in association with CEFNARM.

Overall, in terms of subjects and numbers, the project was able to provide enough training to its
VSS members, especially for members of VSS core groups, which are created by the more active,
informed, responsive and responsible members. They are not necessarily the Management
Committee members, but it is this core group that usually participates in VSS decision-making
and implementation of works. Capacity building for core members and facilitative support from
CEWs and project staff, as well as NGOs in the initial years has resulted in a high degree of
awareness about VSS roles and responsibilities, and the quorum for decision-making. As benefits
from harvest started flowing only towards the end of the project, however, the systems and norms
for cost and benefit-sharing are still evolving, and therefore there is a need for continuation of
facilitative support in this area, particularly in VSS that have mixed membership and which will
have harvesting occurring in the near future. The extension of many APCFMP activities post-
project through central government financing schemes is a positive development in this regard.

Impacts of VSS members training: A study19 on the impact of training commissioned by the
project found that to some extent, VSS trainees passed on their knowledge and skills gained, to
many of the other active VSS members. However, the study also suggested that the training
lacked sufficient ongoing follow-up monitoring and support. The design of training programs was
also not adequately integrated with other project activities. As a result the potential benefits from
the training, particularly in strengthening livelihoods could have been higher, except for some
successful cases of cluster based CEGs. It is important to note that capacity building was an
important project component with a sizable budget allocation. While inputs and outputs were
well-tracked, the impact of various capacity building initiatives was not fully monitored in the
course of the project. At the same time however, it is recognized that training impacts often
emerge only after some time, which can extend beyond the close of the project.

The participatory evaluation survey in 2009 found that over 1/3rd of the VSS assessed themselves
as having the capability to independently undertake necessary accounting and documentation,
including preparation of work estimates; this is probably the result of capacity building training
provided by the project to three educated youth in every VSS. There is a high awareness of the
VSS role (Figure A-2). While VSS capabilities in conducting financial and bank transactions
have been considerably strengthened, in many communities, members are yet to take independent
charge for these functions. For book-keeping and records, the sample of VSSs visited were still
found to be largely dependent on the CEWs/APFD frontline staff, even where capabilities
appeared to exist and there was strong potential for transfer of this responsibility to the VSS.

Forest protection and management: Project VSSs across the state are willing and capable of
undertaking forest protection, and this is being done proactively in areas where benefits from
harvest have already been realized (Figure A-3). Mechanisms include self-patrolling on a

19
     CMSR (2010) Study of the Impact of Training and Capacity Building Programs under APCFMP.


                                                      35
rotational basis, or engaging services of a watchman paid from VSSs' own funds. In other areas,
members generally keep a watch on the forest area allotted to them and have imposed some self-
regulations on use and extraction of forest produce from VSS areas. Some VSSs with a small
membership base and located in high-value forest areas require external assistance, particularly
from the APFD, to ward off threats from organized forest smugglers, particularly in Adilabad
Division. While skills of VSS members in forestry and SMC activities, for example thinning,
coppicing, etc., have improved, VSSs are still being capacitated to fully take charge of all forest
management operations.

                           Figure A-2: Organizational Capacities of VSS




   Notes for Figure A-2.

   -   Awareness of roles and responsibilities: In 48 percent of the VSS, there is high awareness of roles and
       responsibilities; awareness among both MC and GB members was low in about 1/3rd VSS.
   -   Conflict resolution: In 41 percent of the VSS, all disputes are resolved through mutual discussions, whereas
       in 32 percent VSS, there is only a temporary resolution without reaching any consensus or agreement.
   -   Transparency: In 46 percent of the VSS, all financial transactions are discussed in MC meetings and
       informed to GB; in 32 percent VSS signatures are taken in MC meetings but details are not shared unless
       asked for.
   -   Self-reliance: In 36 percent of the VSS, members are capable of accounting and documentation; in 30
       percent VSS it is done by members/ CEW with APFD help.
   -   Based on participatory evaluation of 4670 VSS in 2009.



Benefit sharing, and inclusion of vulnerable groups: As far as participation in VSS activities is
concerned, wage employment in 42 percent VSS is restricted to SC/ST families; in 28 percent
VSS, employment is provided to whoever is available, whereas in 21 percent VSS, outsiders are
also reportedly employed (Figure A-4). Selection of women/ other members for economic/
livelihood assistance is usually based on their economic and/or social status (poorest of poor,
SC/ST being given first preference), but there are also VSS where selection was based on their
presence at the time of decision making (23 percent); in 20 percent VSS, no activity for
livelihood assistance was reportedly taken up. In an overwhelming majority of VSS (78 percent),
access to forest produce is restricted to poor and active VSS members only; in 16 percent VSS all
members get their domestic requirement from the VSS forest.

                                                      36
                         Figure A-3. VSS Capabilities to Protect Allotted Forests




      Notes for Figure A-3.

      -   Grades A, B, C and D used in the charts pertain to the categories used in participatory evaluation, details of
          which are placed at Attachment.
      -   Protection from theft & smuggling: In 1/3rd VSS, protection is through social fencing; 40 percent of the VSS
          employ watchers for protection; only in 13 percent of the VSS there is no protection against theft or
          smuggling.
      -   Protection against encroachment: in 60 percent VSS, encroachment has been checked altogether by the VSS;
          however, encroachments happened in 20 percent cases after formation of VSS.
      -   Protection against fire: Whereas 16 percent of the VSS forests are well-protected against fire, in 33 percent
          VSS, fire was checked with VSS support.
      -   Protection against open grazing: remains unchecked in 10 percent of the VSS.
      -   Based on participatory evaluation of 4,670 VSS in 2009.



1.4        Project Management

Project Monitoring Unit: The project set up a PMU at the APFD headquarters. The project design
aimed to use M&E as a key instrument for tracking project implementation progress and also to
serve as a useful feedback mechanism to all stakeholders. Thus, the institution was called a
"Monitoring" Unit instead of "Management" Unit. However, it played more than an M&E role to
attain PDO and outcomes. The unit often directed day-to-day operations even at the field level
and provided close supervision to manage the project fund and procurement. It also prepared the
PIP and annual plans as well as reports to the Bank. It facilitated policy development and
institutional reform, as well as development of livelihood promotion activities; it liaised with key
stakeholders including government departments, NGOs and the private sector. The uniqueness of
PMU was that it was not isolated from the rest of APFD; rather, it played a facilitative role for
the rest of APFD by sorting and directing project tasks to be carried out at different sections and
divisions of APFD. Thus, project activities were not implemented in isolation; they were carried
out as key tasks of APFD's mandate. In retrospect, the GOs ratified by the GoAP set such a
coherent/blended environment for the relationship between APFD and PMU.




                                                          37
             Figure A-4: VSS      performance on certain indicators of social development




      Notes for Figure A-4.

      -   In 48 percent of the VSS, there is high awareness of roles and responsibilities; awareness among both MC
          and GB members was low in about 1/3rd VSS.
      -   In 41 percent of the VSS, all disputes are resolved through mutual discussions, whereas in 32 percent VSS,
          there is only a temporary resolution without reaching any consensus or agreement.
      -   In 46 percent of the VSS, all financial transactions are discussed in MC meetings and informed to GB; in 32
          percent VSS signatures are taken in MC meetings but details are not shared unless asked for.
      -   In 36 percent of the VSS, members are capable of accounting and documentation; in 30 percent VSS it is
          done by members/ CEW with FD help.
      -   Based on participatory evaluation of 4670 VSS in 2009



1.5       Monitoring and Evaluation

The project's internal monitoring and review system was supplemented with external concurrent
monitoring as well as external impact assessments and participatory/ self-assessment exercises at
the VSS and NGO levels. This formed the crux of the project M&E, and was used to inform
decision-making at various levels. Additionally, studies and consultancies in the areas of `status
of podu cultivators' and `tribal development plan' were carried out in compliance with the
Bank's R&R and Indigenous People's Policy (Table A-5).

 Internal progress monitoring: Internal monitoring was supported by the FMIS (Forest
Management Information System), a computerized monitoring package that had been internally
developed and installed at all offices from the state to the Range level, both in project as well as
non-project areas/ Divisions. The FMIS consists of four modules: (i) Community Forest
Management; (ii) Financial Management; (iii) Forest Inventory; and (iv) Forest Protection. Of
these four, modules (i) and (ii) are routinely used by the Project for planning and monitoring
purposes. Data was collected by CEWs and field staff at the VSS level and aggregated at Range,
Division and state levels. There was, however, no systematic process for field verification of data
furnished by the departmental and project staff, except through certification by the external
agency engaged for concurrent monitoring. Preparation of Annual Work Plans at Division, Circle

                                                         38
and State level and also at the level of each VSS was being done using this package. In respect of
Annual Plans for each VSS, plans prepared through a participatory approach were documented in
this package. Monthly cash accounts at all accounting levels were also being generated through
this package. One of the issues with the FMIS was that the physical and financial reporting was
not synchronized, as the information was collected from two separate channels and data was not
real-time.

 Table A-5. Comparison of Baseline, Mid-Term and End-of-Project Impact Assessment Studies
                                               Mid-term Impact        End-of-project Impact
      Description     Baseline Survey
                                                  Assessment               Assessment
1. Agency           Internal (forest    External agencies (two       External agency (two
                    department staff    separate studies for social/ separate studies as in
                    and NGOs)           institutional aspects and    mid-term, but
                                        environmental/ ecological    conducted by the same
                                        aspects)                     agency)
2. Year             2002 (PY1)          2006 (PY4)                   2009-10 (PY8)
3. Purpose          Microplanning       Impact assessment            Impact assessment
3. Sample size      100% (all VSS,      1% (48 VSS for both          3% + 50 project
                    all member          studies ­ same sites, 20%    clusters (Common
                    households)         households subject to a      Enterprise Groups)
                                        minimum of 10 per VSS)       (150 VSS, 10% of
                                                                     households per VSS
                                                                     plus 50 CEGs)
4. Control          NO                  NO                           YES - 40 control
   (counter-                                                         villages
   factual data)

Process monitoring: Process monitoring usually aims to improve quality of field activities
through checking progress and identifying specific problems as they arise, allowing management
to develop counter-measures against the problems. However, a large part of the `process'
monitoring was very quantitative in nature, restricted to numbers of meetings, numbers of
training sessions, workshops conducted and so on. There are many variations among VSSs, and
each VSS seems to have some issues, which requires a specific process for a solution to be
supported by the project. Tailor-made counter measures using merits of process monitoring,
however, were rarely developed. Monitoring processes of graduation into CFM like institution
reforms and development (organizing CEGs, their federations), developing business plans,
benefit sharing, reinvestment strategies and reinvestment of revenue to continue forest
management have all been reviewed and monitored periodically. Social audit was a participatory
evaluation or assessment of various initiatives.

Baseline and impact assessment: Baseline survey using the project's internal resources (forest
department officials and NGOs) was carried out in 100 percent of the VSS for micro planning
purposes. Emphasis of the baseline was on forest resources and socio-economic status of VSS
member households. The baseline data were used for making comparisons and assessment of
impact at mid-term and end-of-project. However, there were certain methodological issues
arising out of: (i) wide variations in sample sizes between baseline, mid-term and end-of-project
assessments; (ii) end-of-project samples did not necessarily include the mid-term sample VSS;
and (iii) equity concerns between members and non-members may be lost as data collection was
restricted to VSS member households only. Table 3 below presents a comparative picture of these
studies.

                                               39
Participatory evaluation: A VSS Social Audit was at the core of the participatory evaluation. It
was carried out in over 4,800 VSS, but a small part of the survey results had to be rejected
because of data inconsistencies. The final results of this participatory evaluation were based on
findings from 4,670 VSS. The OMR sheet based VSS Social Audit was an innovative though
relatively expensive method for assessment of VSS capabilities. Details of the tool and method
are provided in Annex 2 - Attachment 3. Findings of the evaluation have been used for grading
project VSS into four performance categories; A: excellent, B: very good, C: good/ average and
D: below average.


Component 2: Forest Management

2.1    Overview

The objective of this component, as stated in the PAD, was to "improve forest management and
increase the returns to the community". The focus was on improving productivity and
sustainability of the forest ecosystems. Interventions were made to increase the quantum of
produce on a per hectare basis through investments in protection and regeneration (both natural
and artificial) of forest lands under VSS management coupled with improvements in technology
and information. Achievement of this objective was judged to be highly satisfactory.

The total forest area under VSS management in the project was estimated in the PAD to be 1.31
million ha, consisting of the forest types as seen in Table A-6. However, GPS surveys conducted
under the project and satellite imagery estimated the total project forest area to be approximately
921,000 ha. It will be noted that considerable additional forest treatments to those in the PAD
have been undertaken and these are explained below. Except for the shelterbelts and mangrove
rehabilitation all other treatments occurred within the VSS forest areas as in Table A-6 (see also
Attachment 4. Year and activity wise forest area treated).

Starting under the previous APFP, the great majority of VSS have protected their allotted forest
areas through APCFMP with anecdotal evidence suggesting that even without obtaining
significant monetary benefits they had developed a sense of ownership. As a result, casual visual
evidence as well as more empirical satellite imagery data shows a marked improvement in forest
cover. Time series imagery (2000 to 2006) shows a 24 percent increase in dense forest cover in
VSS forest areas. However, this imagery does not include most of the 30,000 ha of plantations
established in badly degraded forests or the 12,000 ha planted through social forestry programs
on communal and private lands. It is, therefore, estimated, that, including such plantations the
increase in dense forest cover for VSS forests between 2000 and 2008 should be at least a 28
percent.

Using forest inventory data, overall wood volume in the project VSS forests is estimated to have
increased by 2.56 million m3 between 2002 and 2006 (10 percent), based on the increase in dense
and open forests. However, further gains in stocking volume will have occurred since 2006,
while wood plantations are estimated to have added a further 2.9 million m3 from 2006 to 2009.
Overall stocking gain to project close is, therefore, estimated at between 20 and 25 percent. By
contrast, the recent AP Forest Inventory Report states that, overall in the state, forest growing
stock has decreased by 20 percent between 1995 and 2008, indicating that non-CFM forest areas
continue to suffer degradation.
                                               40
        Table A-6: Area of Forest Types and Treatment Targets as per PAD and as Achieved
                                                                    Area Treated          PAD Targets         Project
          Forest Type/             Total Area      Number of
                                                                   Prior to Project       for Treatment     Achievement
           Treatment                  (ha)           VSS
                                                                         (ha)                  (ha)             (ha)
Teak Forest                           625,030           1,480              205,000              150,000           148,000
Non-Teak Forest                       228,050          1,77920              77,840              100,000             95,016
Bamboo Forest                         145,490             692               61,560               50,000             22,716
NTFP, Timber, Bamboo                  260,750          4,62622             128,170               10,800             29,135
Planting21
Red Sanders Forest                      53,140             183               18,300              5,000              1,14023
Bamboo Under-Planting                                    1,771                                       0              20,226
Multi-Location Trials                                      755                                       0               1,290
Gap Planting (Pongamia)                                  1,834                                       0              14,310
Barren Hill Afforestation                                1,179                                       0               8,480
Gotti Grafting24                                            22                                       0                 446
Coastal Shelterbelts                                       130                                       0               2,310
Mangrove Rehabilitation                                     20                                       0               2,190
Total                               1,312,460                              490,870             315,800             345,259
 Note: *: total figure is cumulative.



 2.2         Poverty Alleviation through Component 2

 A total of INR3,808 million (US$85 million) was spent on forestry works. An amount of
 INR2,469 or US$56 (65 percent of the total forestry works) was disbursed as wage income to the
 project beneficiaries through this component. Data and reports suggest that the project
 contributed significantly to the reduction of poverty in its target areas through (i) providing wage
 labor; and (ii) income generation from extraction of NTFPs and harvest of bamboo and timber
 resources created with support under this component. The magnitude and spread of incremental
 income have alleviated poverty incidence in the landless households, which account for a
 significant proportion of the VSS members.

 By end-project, overall average annual incremental income for the project benefited VSS HH is
 estimated at INR6,860 (US$154) with contribution under this component (Table A-7). HH
 income is expected to increase over time with the realization of improved production potentials
 20
      Includes 671 VSS, which also had preferential treatment carried out, as well as earlier singling and coppicing.

 21
   At appraisal, it was planned that 8,800 ha of NTFPs and eucalypts would be planted in the dry scrub area and
 2,000 ha in teak and non-teak forests lacking adequate short term forest resources.

 22
      This is a cumulative total for all plantations with many VSS have more than one type of plantation.

 23
   Prescriptions for treatments proved to not be cost effective. However, protection continues under VSS, who get
 income from NTFPs, Pongamia and the harvesting of Boda grass.

 24
      In situ grafting of edible Ziziphus sp on non-edible Ziziphus sp in scrub forest.


                                                              41
of timber, pulpwood, bamboo and NTFPs established in 345,259 ha of forest land treated by the
project VSSs.

           Table A-7. Annual Incremental Income Impacts from Forest Treatment
                   Sources of Income                    (INR/HH)      % Share

                    1. Forest based income                   5,475          80
                       · NTFP income                         3,665          53
                       · Harvest income                      1,810          26
                    2. Forest wage income                    1,385          20
                   Total                                     6,860         100
                  Note: at 2009 real prices



Some of other important highlights of this component's achievement in poverty alleviation aspect
are as follows:

      a) The forest management interventions generated 37.3 million person days of employment
         for the VSS members;
      b) 72 percent of the generated employment was provided to SC/ST members;
      c) Share of female members with such employment was 48 percent;
      d) Number of VSSs reporting migration has come down by 23 percent while average
         seasonal out migration for employment has come down by 37 percent;
      e) Migration of women almost completely halted;
      f) NTFP income has increased by 53 percent (INR 3,665/per HH/year in average) and HHs
         having access to NTFP income has increased by 21 percent; and
      g) Income from the harvest of rejuvenated bamboo and Eucalyptus plantations is estimated
         at about INR1,810 per HH/year.

2.3     Teak Forest Treatment

Stand improvement treatments over 148,000 ha have been undertaken within the teak-dominated
VSS forest areas (2,044 VSSs). This is in addition to 205,000 ha treated under APFP. With the
continued protection and these initial treatments (cleaning, coppice cutting and some singling)
many areas of teak forest have been capable of producing small timber and poles for at least the
last two years. Thinning operations undertaken in seven VSS, using prescriptions developed
under the project have seen revenues accrued to the communities of between INR20,000
(US$449) and INR 420,000 (US$9,438), net of harvesting costs.

The teak forests being managed by the VSS vary considerably in quality because of their original
condition and subsequent treatment. Unfortunately, treatment of the teak forests virtually ceased
after 2004 when greater emphasis was given to establishing short-rotation plantations, and earlier
treatments were not always of an acceptable standard. This has meant that much of the forest with
at least reasonable potential still requires stand improvement to optimize productivity. Such

                                               42
treatments are planned using NREGS funds, commencing in 2010. Further thinning will also take
place from this year and should increase substantially in future years as the stands mature.
Projections for thinning benefits over the next 11 years show an average annual gross revenue
over of INR15 million (US$337,078) based on 500,800 ha being thinned (Table A-8).

                  Table A-8. APCFMP Natural Forest and Plantation Achievements,
                                 Projected Yields and Revenues
                                               No                                                Average Annual
                                    Area               Survival             Average              Revenue (INR)
             Species                            of
                                   Planted               (%)              Annual Yield
                                               VSS                                               Total per VSS
Plantations:
  Bamboo                              1,900     444          65       2,000 MT + 1.2 million     21 M     47,000
                                                                                      culms
 Eucalyptus                         13,460    1,345          75                 180,000 m3       220M    164,000
 NTFPs25                             4,360      860          65                   5,000 MT        41 M    48,000
 Pongamia                            8,160    1,977          70                  10,000 MT         60M    30,000
Natural Forest Treatments:
 Teak Forest Regeneration          148,000      100                    140,000 trees (6,000 to   15 M    150,000
                                                                                    8,000 m3)
     Bamboo Rejuvenation            22,720      692                     4,000 MT + 4 million     72 M    104,000
                                                                                        culms
     Bamboo Under-planting          20,230     1771          60          1,300 MT + 500,000      11 M      6,000
                                                                                        culms
     Gap Planting (Pongamia)        14,300    1,834          60                     5,000 MT      30M     16,000

2.4        Non-Teak/Miscellaneous Forests

The treatment methods proposed in the PIP were found to be not cost effective for the
heterogeneous nature of these forests, which often had poor prospects for merchantable timber
and NTFP production. It was agreed at a stakeholders' meeting in 2004 that, having already
carried out cleaning and coppice cutting operations in some 77,600 ha of miscellaneous forests,
further treatment of such forests would be confined to "preferential treatment" of good potential
NTFPs and bamboo. As a consequence 18,700 ha have been given such treatment, such as
clearing of unwanted vegetation, soil working and digging of water-holding trenches, yielding
significant benefits according to anecdotal evidence, e.g. production of Seethapal has reportedly
increased at least 100 percent per tree with an increase in the size of fruit by as much as 50
percent, while other products, such as Buchnania nuts and Usiri fruit have increased by as much
as 50 percent providing both subsistence and cash benefits to the VSS communities. Overall, in
both Miscellaneous and Teak Forests, protection and stand improvements under the project have
meant an increase in household income due to sale of NTFPs by 53 percent over the project
period.

2.5        Bamboo Forest Rejuvenation

Bamboo occurs in separate forest patches or within some areas of teak and miscellaneous forests.
Through a process of decongesting clumps combined with soil working to enhance rhizome
growth and digging moisture retention trenches some 22,700 ha of such bamboo forest have been

25
     NTFPs consisted principally of Usiri, Seethapal, Neredu, Tamarind and Neem


                                                        43
rejuvenated and are now yielding considerable quantities of bamboo and enriching the VSS
households and communities involved. Total revenues from harvesting of long bamboo and
industrial cuts (for pulp) amounted to INR15.7 million (US$352,000) in 2008/09, compared to
INR 4.1 million (US$92,000) in 2002/03. This is projected to rise to an annual average of INR
72 million (US$1.6 million) over the next ten years as full production is achieved from
rejuvenated clumps. Even greater yields and revenues are possible as there is much bamboo
forest (approximately 29,000 ha) available in VSS forests for rejuvenation, although sales and
revenue will depend on continuing market demand from both the paper industry and elsewhere.

2.6    Forest Improvement from Plantations

Eucalypt, NTFP and bamboo plantations: Originally, most of the 10,800 ha of eucalypt and
NTFP plantations together with medicinal plants were to have been used to reforest the dry scrub
forest areas to the south of the state. However, from 2004/05, the planting of such short-rotation
wood crops and NTFPs together with bamboo was extended to other VSS forest areas that lacked
the potential for short-term revenue generation in order to help achieve financial sustainability
within the VSS. To ensure optimum growth clonal eucalypt stock was mainly planted, together
with considerable grafted NTFP stock using semi-mechanical site preparation and maintenance.
To a large extent the cultivation of medicinal plants was foregone due to inability to establish
solid market links and difficulties with production with only a limited area of plantations was
intercropped successfully with species such as Asparagus racemosa and Pongamia pinnata
(kanuga), a bio-diesel plant was also introduced over wide areas as part of this semi-mechanical
plantation program. As a result of this increased planting, a total area of 27,880 ha various
species were established compared to the target of 10,800 ha.

The 13,460 ha of eucalyptus clonal plantations will provide significant wood yields and revenues
for the VSS involved. Harvesting of eucalypt plantations established by APFD or under other
programs are already yielding revenues and harvesting of APCFMP plantations should start in
2010 with an estimated average annual yield of some 112,000 Metric Tonnes (MT) or
approximately 180,000 m3, and an average annual revenue generated of INR220 million (US$4.9
million) over the next 11 years. The 1,900 ha of bamboo plantations should have started to yield
benefits, but insufficient attention has been paid to their maintenance and management, with
survival being below satisfactory and growth quite variable. Nevertheless, this resource should
give an average annual revenue of approximately INR21 million (US$472,000, refer Table A-8).

As a minimum of 50 percent of revenues is required to be re-invested, this will mean an annual
average of some INR 155 million available for further forestry development from harvesting of
eucalypt plantations and natural plus plantation bamboo, with such re-investment already
occurring in 266 VSS, and a further 1,155 VSS poised for undertaking re-investment programs in
the coming year. This future revenue is capable of establishing an additional 2,600 ha of wood or
NTFP plantations or rejuvenating further forest bamboo each year. This could be in addition to
the thousands of hectares plantations planned for establishment using NREGS funds over the next
few years. Nevertheless, the 2,600 ha could add a further INR25 to 30 million (US$562,000 to
US$674,000) in gross revenues annually to the VSS from about 2018 when products from these
plantations or treatments are harvested.

Approximately 4,360 ha of various NTFPs were also planted. However, insufficient attention has
been paid to their maintenance following the two years of maintenance specified in the Forest
Schedule of Works (FSW). Annual soil working, soil moisture maintenance, fertilizing and, in
                                               44
some cases, pruning should have been undertaken. As a result yields are expected to be delayed
and poorer than should be expected, particularly for grafted stock. Under the NREGS funds will
be provided to carry out such maintenance together with replanting of large gaps. Yields are
expected to average 5,000 MT of fruit per annum with gross revenues of around INR41 million
(US$921,300).

Semi-mechanical Pongamia plantations under the project cover 8,160 ha with a weighted average
survival of 70 percent. Like the NTFPs, the lack of maintenance has commonly resulted in poor
growth and fruiting is likely to be adversely affected. In fact, field observations suggest that in
many cases fruiting is highly variable and perhaps as little 50 percent of plants. These factors
have been taken into account in projecting future annual yields, which, are anticipated to be over
10,000 MT of seed valued at INR60 million (US$1.3 million) when full production levels are
reached in the next few years.

2.7      Other Forest Improvement Planting Programs

In an effort to further improve forest cover and stocking as well as to provide future forest
products for use by the VSS several other planting programs were undertaken within the VSS
forests. These were:

      a) Under-planting of bamboo: In 2005 and 2006, 20,230 ha of forests had bamboo
         rhizomes planted. The plantings were supposed to have been done in open areas or gaps
         were the bamboo would have access to light. However, field observations and reports
         have shown that many rhizomes were planted under canopy shade; even adjacent to
         existing trees in order to meet quotas or out of ignorance. The result is that the under-
         planting has been shown to have a weighted average survival of 60 percent, but field
         observations and reports from APFD field officers indicate that growth of the surviving
         plants is poor, being adversely affected by competition for light, unsuitable site conditions
         and severe browsing by livestock or feral animals. In estimating the projected future
         yields and revenue from these plantings it is, therefore, assumed that only about 30
         percent of the bamboo plants are viable. Even with this low level of productivity these
         under-planted bamboos will potentially provide worthwhile benefits to the VSS involved.
         Starting from 20012/13 average annual revenue of INR11 million ($247,000) could be
         forthcoming.
      b) Gap planting (Pongamia): Following directives from GoAP to grow Pongamia for the
         production of bio-diesel, and with the objective of filling in forest gaps and revegetating
         soil and moisture conservation earth works, Pongamia seedlings were planted in VSS
         forest areas over an estimated 14,300 ha. Survival of these has been patchy (around 60
         percent) and growth is poor due to often poor site conditions, including lack of soil
         moisture, and no follow-up maintenance. Nevertheless, with some future maintenance
         perhaps 25 percent of the surviving trees will yield as much as INR 30 million per year.
      c) Barren hill afforestation: Further planting within forest barren areas, particularly on the
         upper slopes where soil conditions were poor was undertaken with a variety of species,
         including Pongamia, bamboo and several NTFP species such as Neredu. Survival and
         growth has been poor due to the adverse conditions and lack of maintenance as well as
         browsing. Although there is likely to eventually be some yields coming from these
         plantings, their scattered and sometimes remote location plus poor survival and
         productivity mean the monetary benefits to VSS will probably not be significant.

                                                  45
2.8       Soil and Moisture Conservation

As part of forest improvement treatments, a series of soil and moisture structures were
constructed, costing a total of INR540 million (US$12.1 million), with the objective of improving
soil moisture within the forests and thus helping with plant growth. The result has been that
water holding capacity within the forests has increased by about 500 million m3 and the water
actually impounded in the wet season is estimated to have been as much as 2,000 million m3 (see
Table A-9)26. This increased soil moisture has undoubtedly improved vegetation growth.
Anecdotal evidence points to improved yields from NTFPs and leaf retention in the dry season is
longer. Sampling showed a 12 percent improvement in vegetation cover in project forest areas
over control areas. However, there has also been an unexpected benefit outside forests where
sampling showed 50 percent of project VSS open and bore wells had higher water tables
compared to a 36 percent increase in non-project VSS. The increased water levels have also
enhanced agricultural yields in lands associated with project VSS (19 percent higher) as well as
increasing the number of crops grown27.

                          Table A-9. Soil and Moisture Conservation Works
                                                                   Water Holding       Water Impounded
          Type of Works           Unit       Total for Works         Capacity           per Wet Season
                                                                    (million m3)         (million m3)
Staggered trenches                 No             636,891                    0.5                  5.1
Continuous Contour Trenches        M3           5,920,567                    5.9                 59.2
Check Dams                         No              13,339                  33.3                 133.4
Mini Percolation `Tanks            No              33,007                  82.5                 330.1
Percolation Tanks                  No               6,383                  31.9                 127.8
Rock fill Dams                     No              19,968                    1.0                 10.0
Sunken Gully Pits                  No             136,969                 342.4               1,369.7
Total                                                                     497.6               2,035.1


2.9       Social Forestry

The Social Forestry Component was prepared to reduce pressure on forests and provide
alternative wood and NTFPs to communities without forest land, including those who had
previously obtained products from forests now under VSS control. This was achieved by
establishing plantations on communal/Panchayat land and along roadsides, distribution of
seedlings under a group farm forestry program, and planting of household trees. The initial target
for group farm forestry was 4 million seedlings. However, in response to the demand for trees on
private lands the project finally distributed 77 million seedlings (mainly Casuarina and
Eucalyptus), which is estimated to cover some 8,000 ha. Survival is reportedly high and yields
are estimated to be in the vicinity of 100,000 m3 of pulpwood and 900,000 poles valued at
INR164 million (US$3.7 million) annually for the next six years. Community block plantations
are projected to yield an average of 46,000 m3 annually, worth INR55 million (US$1.2 million).

26
     APFD ICRR, March 2010

27
 Development and Research Services Report on Environmental Impact and Forest Resource Improvement under
APCFMP, March 2010.


                                                   46
2.10   Tsunami Mitigation

Following the 2004 tsunami, the Project allocated INR247 million (US$5.5 million) for the
establishment of approximately 200 km (2,310ha) of coastal shelterbelts and the rehabilitation of
2,190 ha of mangroves. Both programs have been successful, using 153 local VSS, who will not
only benefit from the increased protection afforded, but will also obtain subsistence and financial
benefits from the pruning and selective thinning of the shelterbelt trees (estimated 90 percent
survival) as well as from associated planted NTFPs and livelihood programs introduced
concurrently. The mangrove rehabilitation has not only promoted reforestation with mangroves,
but, as a corollary, greatly enhanced the general ecology.


2.11   Applied Research

APCFMP is somewhat unique in that demand driven research was responsible for significantly
improved benefits. Building on some programs already established under APFP, but also
introducing new programs, research improved forest productivity through: increasing the yield
potential of planting materials using genetically superior clones and seed; improved nursery
practices; development of bio-fertilizers; and development of management practices in
rejuvenated teak forests. The cost of this research was INR341 million (US$7.7 million).
Research was also responsible for the establishment of 14 Technological Dissemination Centers
to act as outreach and demonstration focal points for VSS and APFD field staff. Some of the
research is world class such as development of teak tissue culture planting materials and the
establishment of 925 multi-locational clonal trials (MLCTs) plus trials of valuable indigenous
trees, covering 1,290 ha under the care of 755 VSS. The cost of the trials was INR133.4 million
(US$3 million). Productivity gains through the use of clonal planting materials are estimated at
50 to 100 percent, while that from the use of improved seed from project established seed
orchards is 20 percent. Provision is being made for the Research Wing to retain funds from the
sale of seed and other products as well as consultancies through association with the newly
established CEFNARM. This, together with funding from CAMPA will be used to continue
worthwhile programs generated under the project.

2.12   Forest Inventory

Under the project an inventory of reserved forests in Andhra Pradesh was completed: the most
detailed inventory of the state since the 1970s and the first of its kind in the country. The Andhra
Pradesh Forest Inventory Report (2010) is a very detailed and comprehensive document,
providing data not only on forest composition and stocking by species and regeneration, but also
information on soils and erosion status as well as the incidence of fire and biotic factors on
forests. The inventory data will now form an integral part of future forest management planning,
including that for VSS forests, with data being made available at the division and range level.




                                                47
Component 3: Community Development

3.1    CFM support

Micro plan preparation: Microplans were prepared as required in all the 5,153 VSS covered under
the project, and physical works were executed only after approval of the microplans by the
concerned DFOs. A total cost of INR26.5 million (US$596,000) was incurred on micro planning
activities. Adoption of a participatory approach in planning has resulted in creation of awareness
and a sense of ownership of assets created through the VSS. The microplans reflect community
priorities and decisions to a large extent; office bearers and some active members of the
Management Committee were found conversant with the contents of the microplans as well as
the Annual Work Plans. Most of the microplans reviewed contained copies of resource area and
treatment maps, details of VSS membership and profile of the Management Committee (see
pictures below).

                      Picture 1. Review of Microplans by VSS members




Support to NGOs/community organizers and women volunteers: The PAD had specified
association with NGOs to facilitate planning, implementing and monitoring of microplans, and
engagement of CEWs in areas where NGOs were not available. The project initially engaged the
services of 321 NGOs for planning, capacity building and strengthening communication and
coordination between the VSS and APFD. However, the partnership tapered off around mid-term
after the project's renewed emphasis on improving livelihoods through enterprise development
and focus on outcome-linked performance assessment of NGOs. At the time of project closure,
84 NGOs were associated with the project mostly in implementation of RAP. A total cost of
INR178 million (US$4 million) was incurred by the project towards NGO support and
facilitation.

Although the PAD suggested engagement of a Woman Volunteer in each VSS, the budgetary
allocation for their engagement was too meager; it was therefore not implemented. Instead,
CEWs (one for every 5 VSS) were engaged and trained by the Project, with 20 percent of them
being female and many of them were recruited with the recommendations from project affiliated
NGOs. Training Coordinators (TCs) were also hired (one per Division) to support execution of
the project's capacity building strategy.


                                               48
A total of 14,730 NGO personnel, CEWs and TCs were trained under the Project at the APFA. A
capacity building impact assessment survey (CMSR, 2010) revealed the following themes and
topics as being the most relevant and useful to the CEWs:

      a) Office procedures & accounts (budgeting, accounting, book-keeping, cash book, etc);
      b) SMC (soil & moisture conservation) activities;
      c) Plantation management or activities;
      d) Financial management in CFM;
      e) Group dynamics & leadership development;
      f) NTFP development, value addition and marketing; and
      g) Stress management.


A cadre of trained Community Silviculturists has been promoted by the project through provision
of training and other support to 54 youth, who received training under a four-month certificate
course in Natural Resources Management (NRM) at APFA, covering forestry, livelihood
planning and monitoring aspects; the course was organized in collaboration with a training
institution of national repute.

A state-level federation of VSS networks, Vana Samakhya, has been promoted and sustained by
the Centre for People's Forestry, a Hyderabad-based NGO, and its partner NGOs. It consists of
32 Range level networks representing 429 VSS. The Vana Samakhya has been influencing CFM
policy in the state and is expected to emerge as a strong people's institution, operating between
the APFD, VSS and other civil society organizations.


3.2      Tribal Development Plan

The Project's Tribal Development Strategy, released in February 2002, was based on thorough
research and comprehension of issues ailing development in tribal areas; the underlying
philosophy of the strategy was to reduce dependence of tribals on forests for their economic
subsistence, and narrow the gap between tribal and non-tribal communities through socio-
economic development and mainstreaming activities.

A budgetary allocation of INR100,000 (US$2,247) per tribal VSS and INR50,000 (US$1,123) for
VSS with more than 30 percent ST members was made; this amount was generally utilized for
`entry point activities' such as the following, which were identified and included in the
microplan:

      a) Construction of community hall;
      b) Promotion of fuel-efficient cook stoves and alternative energy systems;
      c) Provision of tents and other material for community gatherings; and
      d) Provision of improved agriculture implements, etc.



                                                49
The total project cost for implementation of the TDP was INR62 million (US$1.4 million), which
included training and support for economic activities, infrastructure development and capacity
building support. Issues of tribal representation and participation in decision-making, low levels
of awareness and capacities, dependence on forests for subsistence needs, and issues of equity in
cost and benefit-sharing among mixed groups were adequately addressed through a multi-
pronged approach, which included, among other things, the following activities:

      a) Mandatory representation in VSS GB and Management Committee (MC), supported
         through education of MC members, periodic review and verification and insistence on
         adhering to the required quorum;
      b) IEC strategy focusing on tribals, with use of folk art, mass media and PRA techniques;
      c) Customized training and capacity building of tribals on technical aspects; participatory
         planning and M&E; skills upgrading and NTFP value addition;
      d) Education on use and management of forests for sustainable livelihoods; support for
         alternative livelihood development initiatives;
      e) Preferential treatment in wage employment, and micro plans to reflect needs and concerns
         of tribals; and
      f) Guidelines and facilitative support for sharing of benefits from usufructs and final harvest.

Even though there was a plan to forge linkages with other line departments and agencies to bring
benefits from other government programs to tribal communities through convergence at the
village level, it did not fully succeed. Eight out of the 14 project districts are predominantly
Schedule V areas, where the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) is the nodal agency
for integration of all welfare and development programs for tribal development. District Forest
Committees, which were formed for review and M&E of project progress at the district level,
consisted of representatives from the ITDA, APFD, and eight other relevant agencies. These were
chaired by the District Collector and though functional, the committees were not found to be very
effective in enabling convergence or inter-departmental coordination. This problem is not unique
to the APCFM project areas or Andhra Pradesh; it is an India-wide issue that needs major
restructuring of government service delivery and coordination.


3.3      Resettlement Action Plan

The GoAP revised the R&R Policy following negotiations with the World Bank and
representations from civil society organizations at the time of project formulation. After a series
of state-wide consultations with stakeholders at various levels, particularly VSS members and
project affected families, during the period May-August 2003, the R&R policy and RAP was
revised by the GoAP, approved by the Bank for its adherence with OP/BP 4.20, and subsequently
notified by the GoAP through GO 68, dated 25.05.2004.

No evictions or physical displacement of families was envisaged under the Project, but loss of
livelihoods resulting from (voluntary) surrender of land under podu cultivation was a major
concern. The RAP therefore explicitly defined key commitments for rehabilitation of such
families, specified the procedures that the APFD would follow for seeking consent of PAFs, the


                                                  50
actions that it would take to mitigate any adverse effects, compensate losses for the families, and
provide development benefits to persons and communities affected by the project.

Salient features of development and implementation of the RAP were:

   a) Consultative process for evolving R&R framework and RAP;
   b) Transparent processes for identification of PAFs, and informing them of their
      entitlements; there was wide publicity in the local media of dates for commencement of
      PAFs identification; final list of selected PAFs was prominently displayed in the VSS and
      Panchayat offices;
   c) Engagement of civil society organizations for implementation of RAP, including
      identification of PAFs, preparation and implementation of family-specific livelihood
      restoration plans, obtaining consent letters from PAFs and affected communities, capacity
      building, follow-up support, and grievance redressal. 84 NGOs were associated with the
      Project for implementation of RAP;
   d) Prominent role of the Gram Sabha in identification of PAFs, demarcation and mapping of
      podu lands, resolution of any conflicts arising at the village level, and planning
      appropriate interventions for livelihood development;
   e) An IAG, comprising noted academics, civil society representatives and retired
      government functionaries was constituted by the GoAP vide GO 100, dated 11.11.2002,
      for advising on implementation of RAP and for grievance redressal at the state level. The
      IAG lent credibility to the entire RAP implementation and provided valuable advice
      during its field visits (IAG visits took place between 2004 and 2010);
   f) Capacity building of PAFs for appropriate realization of benefits from livelihood
      restoration activities; a total of 133 training programs were organized and 3,904 PAFs (31
      percent) were trained for skill up-gradation and/or livelihood improvement; and
   g) Facilitation support from NGO, FD Officials and Management Committees of the
      concerned VSS for availing benefits from other government schemes being implemented
      in the area; about 71 percent of the PAFs have availed the benefits from other
      Government Schemes such as Indiramma Housing, Old Age Pension Scheme, and
      NREGS.

RAP activities were restricted to mainly 5 Forest Divisions in north coastal Andhra
(Vizianagaram, Paderu, Narsipatnam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam) where podu cultivation is
prevalent. A total of 12,528 PAFs in 430 villages, 32 percent of them landless, were provided
assistance to the tune of INR25,000 (US$562) per family for development of alternative
livelihood sources, or augmentation of income from existing sources. Implementation of the RAP
was carried out at a cost of INR334.55 million, of which INR313.8 million (~ 94 percent) was the
R&R grant for procurement of productive assets.

As of March 31, 2010 a total of INR337 million (US$7.6 million) had been spent for various
activities, including land based and non-land based activities, training and facilitation costs (see
table A-10). The details of amount sanctioned and amount spent for various activities for all R&R
activities are presented in Table A-10.



                                                51
              Table A-10. Division Wise Physical and Financial Progress of R&R Activity
                                         as of December 2009
                                                                                         Physical
                         Microplans                 No. of PAFs
                                                                                         Progress
    Name of the
                                                                           Total No.   Total Amount     Amount
     Division                                Land      Land
                     Prepared   Approved                          Total    of PAFs      Sanctioned       spent
                                            owned      Less
                                                                           Grounded     (INR lakhs)   (INR lakhs)
Visakhapatnam          139            139     2657          875    3,532     3,532         953.413      935.290
Narsipatnam            144            144     1993         1449    3,442     3,442         931.413      931.413
Paderu                 128            128     3396         1507    4,903     4,903        1330.209     1330.209
Vizianagaram            12             12      388           93      481       481         130.420      128.148
Srikakulam              04             04       39           86      125       125          34.032       34.032
Circle Total           427            427     8473         4010   12,483    12,483        3379.486     3359.091
Medak
                         2              2       24            2      26         26           7.566         6.64
Nizamabad Circle
Kothagudem
                         1              1       12            7      19         19           4.863        4.863
Khammam Circle
Grand Total            430            430     8509         4019   12,528    12,528        3391.915     3370.594


   The key feature of the assistance provided was that support was given for creation or purchase of
   productive assets only, and there were no cash transfers. This policy created a massive
   procurement operation involving all levels of APFD officers. The following types of
   interventions were supported for livelihoods rehabilitation of landed and landless PAFs:

       a) Land holding PAFs: Land development activities included land leveling and terracing
          (with machines and manual), land bunding, horticulture, agriculture, oil engines, plough
          bullocks, agriculture implements, bore wells, water canals and check dams. An average
          increase of INR3,564/ha (US$80) was noticed in annual income after completion of land
          development activities, despite the low rainfalls witnessed during the period under
          observation. Simultaneously, a shift from subsistence to commercial farming was also
          observed.
       b) Land less PAFs: Under the non­land based activity at individual level a majority of them
          have selected animal husbandry activity of dairy (32 percent), sheep rearing (31 percent),
          plough bullocks (15 percent) and so on. Other activities included petty provisional stores
          (13 percent), cloth units, mobile vegetable units, etc. Depending on the type of activity,
          the interventions were made at either the individual or the group level.

   Situation before implementation of RAP: Most of the families had cultivated between 0.4-0.8 ha
   of podu land, which they voluntarily surrendered. The main crops cultivated were millets, maize
   and upland paddy, with some vegetable intercropping. Less than 20 percent of the affected
   families were found to be totally dependent on podu lands, and the average annual income
   received from these lands was about INR1,133 ­ 1,174/ha (US$25 ­ US$26). Based on a sample
   survey, it was found that only 60 percent of the families who owned Patta lands actually
   cultivated it, mainly because of its uneven terrain and unsuitable location. Annual income from
   patta lands was INR869/ha (US$20), with average area cultivated being 1.05 ha.



                                                      52
Situation after implementation of RAP: According to the report, "Impact Assessment of
Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan in APCFM Project", the general living standards of
the surveyed people have increased during the post project period as shown in the table below.
The income levels have increased by 22 percent from the pre-project levels while the outstanding
debts have fallen by 45 percent. Similarly, there is general increase in the ownership of livestock
and durable asset ownership. The particular increase is found in the ownership of
telephone/mobile phones and bicycles/scooters. Table A-11 provides a detailed summary of
impacts.

                  Table A-11. Change in Income Levels and Resource Base
                                                                                Increase/decrease over
                                           Pre-Project        Post Project
                 Item                                                                 pre project
                                         PAFs        %       PAFs       %          PAFs         %
 Income/debts
 Average Annual Family Income (Rs)         15598       100   19034        100   3436 (+)             --
 Families having outstanding loans/debt        29     8.01      13      3.591      16 (-)      4.42 (-)
 Loan/debt amount outstanding (Rs)      1,077,601      100 483,062         55 594,539 (-)        45 (-)
 Livestock ownership
 Buffaloes                                      6     1.66       15      4.14         9 (+) 2.49(+)
 Cows                                         127    35.08      160     44.20        33 (+) 9.12 (+)
 Bullocks/Ox                                  106    29.28      171     47.24        65 (+) 17.96 (+)
 Poultry/hen                                 190     52.49      194     53.59         4 (+)    1.1(+)
 Sheep                                        69     19.06       94     25.97        25 (+) 6.91(+)
 Pigs                                          0      0.00        2      0.55         2 (+) 0.55 (+)
 Goats                                        68     18.78       73     20.17         5 (+) 1.38 (+)
 Durable asset ownership
 Electric fan                                 59     16.30       86     23.76        27 (+)   7.46 (+)
 Radio/Tape Recorder                          18      4.97       29      8.01        11 (+)   3.04 (+)
 Television                                   19      5.25       30      8.29        11 (+)   3.04 (+)
 Telephone/Mobile                              9      2.49       41     11.33        32 (+)   8.84 (+)
 Washing Machine                               1      0.28        3      0.83         2 (+)   0.55 (+)
 Tractor                                       1      0.28        9      2.49         8 (+)   2.21 (+)
 Scooter/bike                                  2      0.55        3      0.83          1(+)   0.28 (+)
 Bicycle                                      17      4.70       31      8.56         14(+)   3.87 (+)
 Bullock carts                                 2      0.55        5      1.38         3 (+)   0.83 (+)
 Plough                                       71     19.61       81     22.38        10 (+)   2.76 (+)

3.4      Village Development Plan

The village development plan consisted of support for village infrastructure development,
procurement of goods and materials for IGAs and skills improvement training in IGAs. The total
budget for this activity was INR68.08 million (US$1.5 million). Project interventions under VDP
formed part of the overall support for livelihood development activities, described in the
following section.

                                                53
3.5    Livelihood and Enterprise Enhancement

This focus was brought in around the MTR by reconstituting Component 3. Activities under the
component aimed at bringing about holistic development of VSS communities focusing
particularly on the vulnerable groups through providing social safeguards and bridging critical
gaps through income generation activities. Integrating activities of the sub-component, "Village
Development", the new focus provided support to the areas of community infrastructure, income
generation, micro-enterprise and micro-business, and market support. The basic ideas of activities
under livelihood and enterprise enhancement were introduced through training, such as
workshops and study tours, and those VSSs demonstrated their interests in developing such
activities revised their microplans and subsequently developed livelihood enhancement plans. As
a result, 2,283 such plans were prepared (about 50 percent of the total VSSs). These were
integrated into VSSs' microplans, and more than 10 different types of activities were supported
by the project providing benefits to some 285,000 VSS members. Figure A-5 below provides a
comparative picture of the costs incurred on various types of enterprise promotion activities
supported by the Project.

                   Figure A-5. Project Costs for Livelihoods Enhancement




According to the household income impact survey (2010), NTFP and enterprises, where
available, generated INR3,665 (US$83) and INR1,740 (US$39) per household, per year
respectively. A range of livelihood options were developed with major impacts (Table A-12).




                                               54
    Table A-12. Key Livelihood and Enterprise Enhancement Development and
                    Number of VSS and Families per Activity

                                Developmental activities
                               in VSSs with predominant    Developmental activities
                                tribal membership (more        in other VSSs
             Activity                   than 30%)

                                No. of          No. of      No. of       No. of
                                VSS            Families     VSS         Families
1     Agarbathi Stick Making        134            5,251        23             120
2     Apiculture                    132            1,342        97             932
3     Pisciculture                   52            1,515         9             223
4     Vermicompost                  755            5,558       428           6,495
5     Bamboo Value addition           1               18         2              81
6     Leaf Plate making             731           19,502        69             976
Source: APCFMP




                                          55
Annex 2 - Attachment 1. Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix (from PAD, Annex 2 - Attachment 2)
                                                                                                                         Date of
       Area                  Issues and Effect                    Recommended Action               Responsibility                                       Present stage
                                                                                                                        Completion
 1. Policy Aspects
 1.1 Policy for       The Government of AP's policy        Review the AP forest policy and         GOAP, APFD       Prior to negotiation   Complied.
 Forestry sector in   for forest development issued in     adopt a revised policy that has taken
 Andhra Pradesh.
                      1993 is outdated.                    into account NFP 1988, AP Vision
                                                           2020 and NFAP 2000.
                      There is no mechanism for
                      regular review and analysis of       Establish policy development group      APFD             Prior to negotiation   Complied.
                      forest policy.                       within APFD.
 1.2 Financial        Forestry sector suffers from         Ensure setting up of VSS revolving      GOAP, APFD       Prior to negotiation   Complied
 constraints          inadequate budgetary support for     funds to finance reinvestments
                      forest management.                   through issuance of GO authorizing
                                                           VSS accounts and transfer of CFM
                      At present revolving funds have      revenue for forest development.
                      been set up covering revenue
                      from AP Forest Academy for           Policy development group of APFD        GOAP             31st December
                      external training and Geomatic       will explore options and alternatives                    2003.
                      and sale of high value seedlings.    for resource mobilization and make
                      Similar initiatives are needed for   recommendations to GOAP.
                      revenue mobilization to thwart
                      financial constraints.
 1.3 Collection,      Lack of a well defined strategy      · Conduct a study and prepare a         APFD.            31st December          This study was awarded to M/s TERI,
 processing and       for NTFP management including          plan of action on the basis of                         2002.                  New Delhi. Development of enterprises
 marketing of                                                                                                                              and marketing were undertaken based
                      production and non-destructive         recommendations.
 NTFP                                                                                                                                      on suggestions made by this study.
                      harvesting.                                                                                                          Interactive seminars have been
                                                                                                                                           conducted educating the stakeholders on
                      Low income and earning capacity      · Liberalize trade in NTFPs and         GOAP.                                   sustainable management practices of
                      of forest dwellers from NTFP           improve market information                             31st March 2003.       NTFPs including their harvest.
                      because of GCC monopoly
                      reduces the number of legal          · Remove restriction on NTFP                                                    NTFP based enterprises (adda leaf
                                                             processing.                                            31st March 2006        plates) and Bamboo based enterprises
                      buyers and chokes the free flow                                                                                      have been taken up with adequate
                      of goods.                                                                                                            market support to address need for value
                                                                                                                                           addition. Adequate forward and
                                                                                                                                           backward linkages also were
                                                                                                                                           established.




                                                                                          56
                                                                                                                         Date of
      Area                 Issues and Effect                    Recommended Action               Responsibility                                       Present stage
                                                                                                                      Completion
1.4 Community       GOAP order of 1996 on                Revise GO in consultation with          GOAP             Prior to negotiation   Complied.
participation and   JFM needs revision                   various stakeholders and the Bank.
CFM
                    to facilitate transition to CFM
                    approach
1.5 Forest          Sanctioned working plans do not      APFD should prepare revised             APFD             31st March 2003.       All the working plans have been
Management and      exist in the project area. As a      working plans in accordance with its                                            prepared.
Planning                                                 policy.
                    result harvesting operations
                    cannot be carried out.
1.6 Farm forestry   Restrictions on tree felling,        Review policies on restrictions on      GOAP, APFD.      Prior to negotiation   Detailed guidelines have been issued
marketing.          transit, trade and marketing         tree felling in private lands,                                                  (Circular No.1/2003 issued in Prl. CCF
                                                         Rationalize transport and trade                                                 Ref.No.5357/ 2003/F5, dated:25-1-
                    information constrain farm / agro
                                                         barriers. Simplify procedure for non-                    31st December 2002     2003) on the issue of removal of timber
                    forestry from reaching its           exempted species.                                                               and other produce from patta lands.
                    optimum potential.
2. Legal Aspects
2.1 Legal           AP forest policy for participatory   Suitably amend the AP Forest act        GOAP, APFD       31st December          Gov't has issued Addendum to
backing for CFM     forest management is not legally     1967 to provide legal framework for                      2003.                  G.O.Ms.No.13,EFS&T. (For.III) Dept.,
                                                         CFM.                                                                            Dated:12-2-2002 in G.O.Ms.No.4
                    enforceable.
                                                                                                                                         EFS&T.(For.III) Dept., Dated:12-1-
                                                                                                                                         2004. The Draft Bill for amendment of
                                                                                                                                         AP Forest Act was approved and
                                                                                                                                         proposals were sent to Government of
                                                                                                                                         India on 15-04-2006 for concurrence in
                                                                                                                                         GOI's concurrence was obtained. In the
                                                                                                                                         meantime GOAP have recognized
                                                                                                                                         community rights of VSSs under the
                                                                                                                                         Forest Rights Act 2005 in respect of
                                                                                                                                         tribal VSSs. The others are being
                                                                                                                                         brought under the umbrella of FDAs
                                                                                                                                         which are registered societies.
2.2 Panchayat       Possibility of competing claims      Notify rules under the amended A P      GOAP             31st December          GOAP have issued orders in G O Ms.
laws and CFM        for the share of benefits from the   Panchayat Act 1994 to ensure that                        2002.                  No. 50 EFS&T (For III) Dept. Dt.
                                                         Panchayats do not undermine VSS.                                                23.2.2004 clarifying the position stating
                    same resources by the Gram
                                                                                                                                         that Panchayat laws are applicable to
                    Panchayat and Gram Sabha under                                                                                       Panchayat lands. Hence there is no
                    the A. P. Panchayat Raj Act,                                                                                         conflict.
                    1994 and VSS under CFM.




                                                                                        57
                                                                                                                           Date of
      Area                  Issues and Effect                    Recommended Action                 Responsibility                                        Present stage
                                                                                                                          Completion
2.3 Cultivation of   The cultivation of medicinal         A clarification or prior approval of      GOI, GOAP        31st December 2002      The World Bank in their letter dt.30-4-
medicinal plants     plants is not allowed without        MOEF (GOI) should be obtained by                                                   2003, pleased to note that the agreed
                                                          the GOAP/APFD before taking up                                                     action on the issue has been complied
                     prior approval of the GOI under
                                                          cultivation of medicinal plants in the                                             with.
                     the Forest Conservation Act          forests areas.
                     1980.
2.4 NTFP             Legal framework discourages the      Review and amend AP Scheduled             GOAP             30th June 2003          Complied
processing and       value addition to NTFPs by the       Area MFP (Regulation of Trade)
trade                                                     Regulation 1979 to remove
                     tribal community.
                                                          restrictions on NTFP collection,
                                                          transportation and value addition at
                                                          village level.
3. Institutional
3.1 Role and         Lack of adequate delegation of       Conduct a study to look into              GOAP, APFD       31st December 2002      Government has issued orders in
function of          financial and administrative         delegation of financial and                                                        G.O.Ms. No.2 EFS&T (For.III) Dept.
Forest                                                    administrative powers and workload                                                 Dated 7.1.2004.
                     powers to frontline staff. Present
Department                                                among the staff and formulate action
                     distribution of workload of FD       plan based on recommendations and
                     staff is not suitable for            implement it.
                     implementing policy of CFM.
3.2 Intersectoral    Inadequate linkages between          Initiate monitoring of existing           APFD             31st December 2002      Various committees have been
Coordination         agencies/departments doing           mechanisms for coordination among                                                  constituted in G.O.Ms. No. 13 EFS&T
                                                          various government agencies at state                                               (For.III) Dept. Dt.12.2.2002 and G O
                     similar work. Village
                                                          district and division levels and review                                            Ms. No. 78 EFS&T (For III) Dept. Dt.
                     development requires support         the efficacy of coordination.                                                      17.10.2003 including the Velugu (IKP)
                     from many agencies.                                                                                                     Project authorities in the above
                                                                                                                                             committees and for convergence.
3.3 Involvement      Lack of clarity for                  Develop mechanisms and criteria for       GOAP, APFD.      Prior to negotiations   Complied.
of non-FD            NGO/NGI/University                   greater NGO, and other civil society
institutions in                                           involvement in CFM.
                     involvement.
CFM
3.4 Research &       Research Plan prepared in the        Revise the research plan using            GOAP, APFD       Prior to negotiations   Complied.
Extension            past is outdated.                    priority setting methodology and also
                                                          develop mechanisms for identifying
                                                          applied research questions.
3.5 Monitoring       Monitoring and Evaluation            Prepare a detailed monitoring and         APFD             30th June 2002          Government has issued orders in
and Evaluation       system in FD is weak not             evaluation plan.                                                                   G.O.Ms.No. 45, EFS&T(For.III) Dept.,
                                                                                                                                             Dt.26-5-2003, appointing M/s.
                     allowing learning opportunities
                                                          Third party monitoring and                                 30th September          CENPAP, Hired as Consultants for
                     Need to develop an effective         evaluation agency in place                                 2002                    Monitoring and Evaluation of APCFMP.
                     M&E system                                                                                                              The consultants have submitted M&E
                                                                                                                                             framework and project monitoring is
                                                                                                                                             being done basing on this framework.


                                                                                          58
Annex 2 - Attachment 2: Benefit-sharing Framework (as specified in GOs 13, 4 and
43)
VSSs are entitled to the following forest produce obtained from forests managed by
them; this entitlement is subject to carrying out all silvicultural operations including
harvesting in accordance with the silvicultural principles laid down in the respective
Working Plans and schedule detailed in respective micro plans of the VSS, and adopting
rotation age and rotation period (where relevant) as prescribed in the respective Working
Plans.

   a) All Non-timber Forest Produce
   b) All Intermediate yields obtained from silvicultural operations in natural forests
   c) All timber and bamboo (including yield from bamboo plantations) harvested from
      the forest managed by them except in case of plantations
   d) In case of teak plantations within VSS area, whose age is known, twice the
      proportionate yield harvested (including yield from thinning) with reference to
      age of the plantation and the period of maintenance by the VSS (maximum
      entitlement will not however exceed the total yield of the plantations)
   e) In case of other plantations, whose age is known, 50 percent of harvest (including
      thinning) if the period of management of plantation by VSS is less than 50 percent
      of the rotation period and 100 percent of volume harvested if such period of
      management by the VSS is more than 50 percent of rotation period of the
      plantation
   f) All the timber obtained from second and subsequent rotations of all plantations.

The benefit thus accrued shall be passed on to the VSS as prescribed below:

   a) Domestic requirement of the forest products will be set apart and distributed
      among all the VSS members as per the norms evolved by the Managing
      Committee. The surplus quantity may be disposed as decided by the managing
      committee.
   b) Any expenditure incurred by the Government on the harvesting and disposal shall
      be reimbursed to the Government.
   c) Expenditure necessary to sustain the productivity of the forests as per the micro-
      plan shall be deposited in the VSS joint account. This amount shall not be less
      than 50 percent of the net income; guidelines for reinvestment have been
      subsequently developed and are in use across the state.
   d) Balance income shall be deposited in the VSS account and utilized as per
      decisions taken by the General Body of the VSS.

Since passing of GO 43 in 2006, the GoAP has been passing on all the net revenue
realized from sale of beedi leaf collected and sold to the primary collectors. With this



                                           59
initiative a whopping Rs. 39.50 crores has been realized by beedi leaf collectors, a
majority of whom are VSS members, during the project period.




                                        60
Annex 2 - Attachment 3: VSS Social Audit and Sample Selection for Household
Survey
Following were the objectives of the exercise:

   a) To develop an effective tool for delivering good governance practices at grass
      roots (VSS) level
   b) To increase participation, transparency and promote accountability among VSS
      members in general and MC members in particular
   c) To play a crucial role in participatory monitoring and evaluation of APCFM and
      overall status at VSS level
   d) To make the user groups aware of, and sensitize both MC and GB members about
      their roles, responsibilities and rights
The social audit tool consisted of 25 criteria covering 5 assessment areas with different
weightings; the criteria and indicators used for the participatory evaluation, and the
weightings assigned to different areas are provided in the table A-13.

The entire set of questions was converted in an OMR form, which was filled in by the
consultant-coordinator after receipt of all responses from the field. A manual was
developed by an external agency (Agency 1) to accompany the tool, which provided
guidelines for its use. Another agency (Agency 2) was engaged for facilitating the
exercise in the field. A total of 4808 (nearly 100 percent) VSS were visited and 45,859
responses collected. In every VSS, 10 representatives were selected as respondents; the
questionnaire was administered to the group as a whole but responses were furnished
individually. These consisted of VSS office-bearers (2), MC members (2), GB members
(2), FD representative (1), NGO representative (1), CEW (1) and one non-member or
member of GB if all households in the village were VSS members. A minimum of 5
respondents per VSS were necessary to qualify for inclusion in the response set. Based on
this criterion, 1 percent VSS (39) and respondents (380) were rejected. The average
number of respondents per VSS was 9.5.

All responses were first recorded in the printed (offset) questionnaire and scrutinized by
FD officials for inconsistencies in responses. The questionnaire was to be scrutinized
using the Scrutiny check list provided in the Manual; corrections were required to be
made in the field and only in presence of the Social Auditor. After completion of the
corrections the entire responses were to be transferred to OMR printed sheets by
Coordinators from Agency 2. A third agency was responsible for interpretation of the
OMR data sheets into Excel files, which were then passed on to Agency 1 for analysis
and report writing.




                                           61
                   Table A-13. Social Audit Criteria and Indicators
            Criteria                                     Indicators
                                  Awareness on Roles and Responsibilities
VSS Organizational
                                  Collaboration and Coordination
Effectiveness
                                  Conflict Resolution
(Q 1-5 of OMR)
                                  Transparency
25%
                                  Self Reliance
                                  Inclusiveness of Vulnerable Groups
Social Equity                     Selection of members for wage employment
(Q 6-10 of OMR)                   Selection of members for Livelihoods Assistance
15%                               Economic Assistance to Women
                                  Access to forests for domestic requirement
                                  Generation of Wage Employment
Economic Benefits                 NTFP Collection
(Q 11-15 of OMR)                  Livelihood assistance
15%                               Sharing of Income among Members
                                  Economic benefits from other departments
                                  Extent of Forest area Treated by VSS
                                  Development of Resources of VSS Natural Forest
Resources Sustainability
                                  Areas
(Q 16-20 of OMR)
                                  Development of plantations in Forest areas by VSS
15%
                                  Livelihood business generation
                                  Actual or projected harvesting Income
                                  Protection of Forest by VSS against Theft and
                                  Smuggling
Environmental Benefits
                                  Protection of Forest by VSS against Encroachment
(Q 21-25 of OMR)
                                  Protection of Forest by VSS against Fire
30%
                                  Protection of Forest by VSS against open Grazing
                                  Impact of SMC works

After the social audit, all 4,670 eligible VSS were arranged in descending order and every
9th VSS was selected for the purpose of ground truthing and conducting detailed
household surveys. A total of 518 VSS were thus selected. Of the 518 VSS thus selected,
247 had also prepared and implemented a LDP. In order for the sample to include 20
percent LDP VSS, an additional 209 LDP VSS were added to the sample ­ these 209
were randomly selected. The number of VSS in the sample thus increased to 727 (518
from VSS Social Audit plus 209 additional randomly selected VSS involved with LDPs).
Five percent of households in each VSS were surveyed for measuring increase in
household income as compared with the baseline ­ this survey provided information
necessary for household income impact assessment.




                                           62
Annex 2 - Attachment 4. Year and Activity Wise Forest Area Treated (Ha)
No.         Treatment activity         2002-03 2003-04 2004-05         2005-06   2006-07   2007-08   Total
         Forest Area Treated with
1        Improvement to Bamboo            140      9,450       6,622     2,503     2,593     1,409   22,717
         rejuvenation
         Forest Area Treated with
2                                       2,971 133,308         86,596     1,945      379       244 225,444
         Singling & Coppicing
         Under Planting of
3                                                                       15,312     4,915             20,227
         Bamboo
4        Bamboo Plantations                  4       342       1,053         2                497     1,898
5        Eucalyptus Plantations           106      1,102       3,875     3,266     3,733     1,376   13,459
6        Pongamia Plantations                                  5,616                                  5,616
7        NTFP Plantations                    3       674       2,364       696      490       130     4,358
         NTFP (Pongamia)
8                                          64                                      3,740              3,804
         Plantations
9        MLCT / LRHT28                                79         650       134       275      152     1,290
10       Barren Hill Afforestation         16        653       2,953     1,669     1,008      265     6,563
         Barren Hill Afforestation
11                                                             1,044       572      263         36    1,915
         (Pongamia)
12       Gap Planting (Pongamia)                   1,820                11,488               1,003   14,311
13       Gotti Grafting                                 38       396        13                         446
14       Preferential treatment            75        381       6,831     3,820     5,467     2,139   18,714
15       Shelterbelt                                                                                  2,308
16       Mangrove plantations                                                                         2,190
         Total                          3,379 147,849        118,000    41,418    22,864     7,251 345,259

Source: APCFMP




28
     Multi-Location Clonal Trials and Long Rotation Hardwood Trials



                                                   63
Annex 2 - Attachment 5. Yield and Revenue Estimate from Forest Treatment
                                  2002/03   2003/04   2004/05   2005/06   2006/07   2007/08   2008/09   2009/10   2010/11
Bamboo Rejuvenated
Decongestion (ha)                 140       9450      6622      2502      2593      1409
Pulpwood (MT)                                                                                                      74
Long Bamboo (No)                                                                                                   68,600
Total Revenue (Rs million)        4.1       9.0       19.2      8.6       16.6      9.3       15.7                0.9
Bamboo Plantations
Established (ha)                  4         342       1,053     2                   497
Pulpwood (MT)                                                                                                     1,107
Long Bamboo (No)
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                        2
Eucalypt Plantations
Established (ha)                  106       1,102     3,875     3,266     3,733     1,376
Pulpwood (MT)                                                                                           5,300     55,100
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                              11        110
Teak Forest Improvement
Thinnings (ha)                                                                      31        40        40        100
Trees harvested (No)                                                                9,920     12,800    12,800    32,000
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                          0.8       1.1       1.1       2.7
Usiri Plantations
Established (ha)                            236       827       244       172       45
Fruit Yield (kg)                                                                                                  122,720
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                        0.98
Neredu Plantations
Established (ha)                            175       768       181       127       34
Fruit Yield (kg)                                                                                                  45,500
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                        0.36
Seethapal Plantations
Established (ha)                            81        284       84        59        16
Fruit Yield (kg)                                                                                                  63,180
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                        0.63
Pongamia Plantations
Established (ha)                  64                  5,616               3,740
Fruit Yield (kg)                                                                                                  1,501,760
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                         9.01
Bamboo Under-Planting
Established (ha)                                                15,312    4,915
Pulpwood (MT)
Long Bamboo (No)
Total Revenue (Rs million)
Pongamia Gap Planting
Established (ha)                            1,820               11,490              1,000
Fruit Yield (kg)                                                                                                  163,800
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                                        0.98
Group Farm Forestry Plantations
Established (ha)                                      60        720       890       5,640     390
Pulpwood (MT)
Poles (No)                                                                                              42000      504,000
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                              1.68      20.16
Community Block Plantations
Established (ha)                                      961       1,050     610       1,182     404
Pulpwood (MT)                                                                                           -         -
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                                                              -         -
Source: ICRR Estimate




                                                      64
Attachment 5 - Continued.
                                  2011/12     2012/13     2013/14     2014/15     2015/16      2016/17      2017/18
Bamboo Rejuvenated
Decongestion (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                     4,961       3,477       1,387       2,723       4,216        1,402        7,315
Long Bamboo (No)                  4,630,500   3,244,780   1,294,580   5,901,070   3,935,190    1,308,300    6,827,170
Total Revenue (Rs million)        64          44          18          99          67           23           132
Bamboo Plantations
Established (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                     3,370       1,597       797         2,426       1,150        797          2,426
Long Bamboo (No)                                          744,038     2,264,371   1,073,050    744,038      2,264,371
Total Revenue (Rs million)        5           3           10          31          15           13           40
Eucalypt Plantations
Established (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                     193,750     163,300     186,650     59,280      44,080       155,000      130,640
Total Revenue (Rs million)        388         327         373         119         88           310          261
Teak Forest Improvement
Thinnings (ha)                    150         300         500         800         800          800          800
Trees harvested (No)              48,000      96,000      160,000     251,970     -8,430       241,570      228,570
Total Revenue (Rs million)        4           8           14          22          21           21           20
Usiri Plantations
Established (ha)
Fruit Yield (kg)                  614,120     1,078,740   1,723,020   2,317,120   3,126,760    3,385,200    3,531,060
Total Revenue (Rs million)        5           9           14          19          25           27           28
Neredu Plantations
Established (ha)
Fruit Yield (kg)                  290,680     628,420     1,153,360   1,489,020   1,610,960    1,661,660    1,670,500
Total Revenue (Rs million)        2           5           9           12          13           13           13
Seethapal Plantations
Established (ha)
Fruit Yield (kg)                  326,820     582,140     819,520     906,360     945,360      953,680      953,680
Total Revenue (Rs million)        3           6           8           9           9            10           10
Pongamia Plantations
Established (ha)
Fruit Yield (kg)                  3,036,800   4,706,000   8,356,400   9,815,000   12,246,000   12,246,000   12,246,000
Total Revenue (Rs million)        18          28          50          59          73           73           73
Bamboo Under-Planting
Established (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                                 4,823       1,548                   1,736        557
Long Bamboo (No)                                                                  1,620,622    520,204
Total Revenue (Rs million)                    8           2                       29           9
Pongamia Gap Planting
Established (ha)
Fruit Yield (kg)                  409,500     1,607,400   3,404,250   4,663,350   6,304,500    6,439,500    6,439,500
Total Revenue (Rs million)        2           10          20          28          38           39           39
Group Farm Forestry Plantations
Established (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                     3,000       36,000      44,500      141,000     160,500
Poles (No)                        623,000     3,948,000   273,000
Total Revenue (Rs million)        31          230         100         282         321
Community Block Plantations
Established (ha)
Pulpwood (MT)                     38,440      42,000      24,400      47,280      16,160       26,908       29,400
Total Revenue (Rs million)        77          84          49          95          32           54           59




                                                  65
Attachment 5 - Continued
                                  2018/19      2019/20      2020/21      Totals        Annual Average
Bamboo Rejuvenated
Decongestion (ha)                                                        22,716
Pulpwood (MT)                     4,912        1,664        7,587        39,717        3,972
Long Bamboo (No)                  4,584,146    1,553,496    7,081,284    40,429,116    4,042,912
Total Revenue (Rs million)        89           31           151          719           72
Bamboo Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         1,898
Pulpwood (MT)                     1,150        957          2,911        18,688        1,869
Long Bamboo (No)                  1,073,050    892,846      2,717,245    11,773,010    1,177,301
Total Revenue (Rs million)        19           18           54           209           21
Eucalypt Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         13,458
Pulpwood (MT)                     149,320      59,280       38,570       1,234,970     112,270
Total Revenue (Rs million)        299          119          77           2,393         218
Teak Forest Improvement
Thinnings (ha)                    800          800          800          6,761
Trees harvested (No)              209,070      170,070      152,000      1,580,820     143,711
Total Revenue (Rs million)        19           16           15           162           15
Usiri Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         1,524
Fruit Yield (kg)                  3,566,160    3,566,160    3,566,160    26,597,220    2,659,722
Total Revenue (Rs million)        29           29           29           213           21
Neredu Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         1,285
Fruit Yield (kg)                  1,670,500    1,670,500    1,670,500    13,561,600    1,356,160
Total Revenue (Rs million)        13           13           13           108           11
Seethapal Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         524
Fruit Yield (kg)                  953,680      953,680      953,680      8,411,780     841,178
Total Revenue (Rs million)        10           10           10           84            8
Pongamia Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         9,420
Fruit Yield (kg)                  12,246,000   12,246,000   12,246,000   100,891,960   10,089,196
Total Revenue (Rs million)        73           73           73           605           61
Bamboo Under-Planting
Established (ha)                                                         20,227
Pulpwood (MT)                     2,084        669                       11,418        1,269
Long Bamboo (No)                  1,944,746    624,244                   4,709,816     523,313
Total Revenue (Rs million)        38           12                        99            11
Pongamia Gap Planting
Established (ha)                                                         14,310
Fruit Yield (kg)                  6,439,500    6,439,500    6,439,500    48,750,300    4,875,030
Total Revenue (Rs million)        39           39           39           293           29
Group Farm Forestry Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         7,700
Pulpwood (MT)                                                            385,000       64,167
Poles (No)                                                               5,348,000     891,333
Total Revenue (Rs million)                                               984           164
Community Block Plantations
Established (ha)                                                         4,207
Pulpwood (MT)                     17,080       33,096       11,312       286,076       28,608
Total Revenue (Rs million)        34           66           23           550           55




                                                    66
Annex 2 - Attachment 6. Activity/Year Wise Income Generation
     Income Generation Activity      2002-03    2003-04       2004-05    2005-06    2006-07    2007-08    2008-09   Total
1    Timber                          86.772     133.275       922.102    493.829    283.896    401.737    403.564   2725.175
2    Poles                           144.046    192.949       280.505    234.026    205.911    278.125    6.659     1342.221
3    Fire Wood                       718.674    926.918       1028.843   1172.740   1113.738   1156.604   0.332     6117.849
4    Pulp Wood                       0.251      10.978        51.697     115.599    264.910    227.962    0.000     671.397
5    Bamboo                          28.082     57.633        116.979    67.710     126.036    51.231     101.429   549.100
6    Bamboo Industrial cuts          13.350     32.078        74.529     18.415     39.716     42.170     55.718    275.976
7    Adda Leaf Plates                10.029     15.204        20.158     26.250     94.914     50.151     3.329     220.035
8    Agarbathi Making                                         2.561      11.505     36.596     49.071               99.733
9    Amla based activity             0.199      0.874         1.107      1.091      1.546      1.519                6.336
10   Apiculture                      0.700      0.685         0.963      3.777      4.931      2.826                13.882
11   Bamboo based activity(others)   0.048                                          0.450      0.550                1.048
12   Bamboo Furniture                0.046      0.046         0.038      0.038      0.038      0.060                0.266
13   Bamboo Handicrafts                                                  0.250      0.510      0.447                1.207
14   Beedi leaf collection           465.839    438.996       526.740    506.403    978.166    1031.203   3.141     3950.488
15   Biodiesel based                 0.118      0.315         0.914      1.455      2.332      1.638                6.772
16   Community Based Eco-Tourism                                         2.159      9.154      29.247               40.560
17   Fodder grass                    171.610    205.117       220.836    245.006    268.356    192.222              1303.147
18   Gums                            11.430     21.649        20.164     20.067     16.227     16.006               105.543
19   Hill Brooms                     10.712     21.486        26.141     29.951     36.629     38.444               163.363
20   Lac Cultivation                                          0.171      0.102                 0.680                0.953
21   Lantana based activity                                                         0.025                           0.025
22   Medicinal Plants                0.006      0.014         0.492      0.352      0.461      0.529                1.854
23   Moduga leaf plates              56.477     61.179        64.418     66.682     67.577     68.795     0.750     385.878
24   Mohwa Flower/Seed               44.316     54.617        45.918     50.413     49.623     55.317               300.204
25   Nursery raising                 1.250      2.720         5.940      18.616     7.815      16.411               52.752
26   Tamarind based activity         3.390      9.749         11.035     12.013     15.233     15.701               67.121
27   Tassar                                                   0.166      6.694      6.138      5.578                18.576
28   Seethaphal                      3.995      4.412         4.208      3.424      4.406      4.915                25.360
29   Palmyrah Fruits                                          0.080      0.085      0.092      0.095                0.352
30   Bodha Grass                     0.407      0.538         0.950      0.585      0.614      0.763                3.857
31   Eucalyptus                                                                     15.087     1.634                16.721
32   Uprooted Material               0.038      1.135         3.881      6.156      4.824      1.802                17.836
33   Somi Flower                                                                    0.760                           0.760
34   Vermi Compost                   0.223      0.184         1.287      11.219     37.918     54.755     0.504     106.090
35   Embroidery                                                          0.200      1.060      1.460      0.510     3.230
36   Handmade Paper                                                                                                 0.000
37   Neem based activity                        0.321         0.015      0.236      0.068      0.595                1.235
38   Bodha Grass based oil           0.562      0.808         1.926      1.206      1.292      0.586                6.380
39   Pisciculture                               0.021         0.080      1.753      8.541      2.063                12.458
40   Others                          0.038      1.135         3.881      6.156      4.824      3.435                19.469
41   C-Fees                          0.000      1.442         1.228      0.777      1.031      1.993      0.000     6.471
     Total                           1772.608   2196.478      3439.953   3136.940   3711.445   3808.320   575.936   18641.680
Source: APCFMP




                                                         67
Annex 2 ­ Attachment 7. Additional Technical Notes on Forest Management and
Improvement

Introduction

The objective of Forest Management Component of APCFMP, as stated in the PAD, was
to "improve forest management and increase the returns to the community". As was
proposed, this has been satisfactorily achieved through protection of the VSS forests and
through interventions that greatly added to the productivity of the forests through stand
improvement treatments to promote natural regeneration as well as through the
establishment of plantations in badly degraded forests or interplanting within existing
forests as shown in Table 1 and detailed in the following pages.

           Table A-14. Area of Forest Types and Treatment Targets as per PAD
                                     and as Achieved

                                       Total        Area Treated
                                                                   PAD Targets                  Project
           Forest Type/                 Area          Prior to
                                                                  for Treatment               Achievement
            Treatment                 Per PAD         Project
                                                                       (ha)                       (ha)
                                        (ha)            (ha)
     Teak Forest                       625,030            205,000        150,000                   148,000
     Non-Teak Forest                   228,050             77,840        100,000                    95,017
     Bamboo Forest                     145,490             61,560         50,000                    22,716
     NTFP & Wood                       260,750            128,170         10,800                    17,817
     Plantations29
     Bamboo Plantations                                           0                   0              1,898
     Pongamia Plantations                                         0                   0              9,420
     Red Sanders Forest30                53,140              18,300               5,000              1,140
     Bamboo Under-Planting                                                            0             20,226
     Multi-Location Trials                                                            0              1,290
     Gap Planting (Pongamia)                                                          0             14,310
     Barren Hill Afforestation                                                        0              8,480
     Gotti Grafting31                                                                 0                446
     Coastal Shelterbelts                                                             0              2,310
     Mangrove Rehabilitation                                                          0              2,190
                Total                 1,312,460             490,870             315,800            345,260




29
         At appraisal, it was planned that 8,800 ha of NTFPs and eucalypts would be planted in the dry
scrub area and 2,000 ha in teak and non-teak forests lacking adequate short term forest resources.

30
       Prescriptions for treatments proved to not be cost effective. However, protection continues under
VSS, who get income from NTFPs, Pongamia and the harvesting of Boda grass.

31
          In situ grafting of edible Ziziphus sp on non-edible Ziziphus sp in scrub forest.



                                                       68
Improvement of High Forests

Teak Forests

The teak forests within project VSS forest areas were estimated in the PAD to be about
625,000 ha of which 205,000 ha had been given initial treatment under the previous
APFP. This treatment, and the treatment of 148,000 ha carried out under APCFMP, was
based on promoting regeneration and growth from existing viable root and seedling
material available on the site. The first priority was protection to allow the regeneration
to develop. Advanced works then consisted of clearing unwanted vegetation hindering
growth of desirable species, such as teak, and cutting back of existing teak stumps to
promote coppice growth. This was to have been followed by creation works, which
involved the singling of the resulting coppice to produce pole and eventual timber crops.

It was recognized at appraisal that there was insufficient flexibility in the treatments to
cover the different dynamics of forests regenerating from what was often a very badly
degraded state on varying site conditions. However, as events unfolded under the project,
the actual treatment of teak forests was largely limited to advanced works, with much of
that being undertaken by 2005. At that point forest treatment focus shifted to the
establishment of semi-mechanical plantations of eucalypts, bamboo, NTFPs and
Pongamia to help ensure short term income generation for VSS. A limited area had
singling operations undertaken. In many VSS forests where advanced works were
undertaken, either under APFP or APCFMP, insufficient care was taken and supervision
of the works was poor. The result was that coppice cutting left high stumps (up to one
meter), which has hindered optimum coppicing, and with resulting coppice being
unstable with limited life and growth potential compared to coppice from properly cut,
low stumps. At the close of the project, as a result of generally conscientious protection,
but less than adequate silvicultural treatment, we are left with VSS teak forest that varies
considerably in quality, stocking and size of trees, but often having the following
characteristics:

    a) Trees have grown in height from an average of 2 to 3 m to 10 to 15m;
    b) Tree diameters at breast height (dbh) have reached 15 to 20 cm;
    c) Stocking of teak trees over 8 cm dbh are from 400 to over 2,000/ha;
    d) Natural teak regeneration varies from negligible to profuse.
    e) Much of the reasonable VSS teak forest has multiple shoots of substantial size,
       often coming from high stumps.
    f) Considerable potential exists to further improve the forests to produce valuable
       merchantable timber.

After some delay, mainly because working plans were not current, thinning commenced
in 12 VSS forests in Karimnagar West Division covering an area of 3,760 ha. The
project provided initial funding for the thinning operations, although this was to be used
as a revolving fund with the cost of thinning being replenished from thinning revenues


                                            69
and then used for future thinning. The thinning prescriptions and intensity of removals
varied with the stocking, spacing between eligible trees and forest conditions, making use
of guidelines provided by the Research Wing. The approximate age of the stands also
determined the thinning intensity of trees above 25cm girth at breast height (gbh - the
standard lower limit), although removals tended to be on the conservative side. Lowering
the minimum cutting girth was discussed in the field, but no amendments were made. A
cutting cycle of seven years was adopted for a VSS forest area, with trees on slopes over
30 degrees not being included. It has been heartening to see that many VSS leaders and
members have understood the principles involved in both the coppice cutting and
thinning process, while actual removals have taken into account community wishes, such
as retaining two or three coppice shoots till they could be harvested as a saleable product.

Actual teak thinning have yielded between INR100,000 (US$2,247) and INR400,000
(US$9,000) per year per VSS or between INR17,000 (US$382) and INR34,000 (US$764)
per ha. The ages of thinned stands have been estimated at between 12 and 14 years and
between 200 and 500 trees per ha were removed. Although, it was recommended and
agreed on several missions that the area of teak thinning be increased as it was obviously
a lucrative operation, this did not happen.

Beyond the project, commencing in 2010, considerably more areas of teak forests will be
treated and thinned using National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS)
funds, at least to initiate the process. Of the approximately 600,000 ha of teak dominated
forest within project VSS forests 350,000 has had at least some initial treatment under
APCFMP and APFP. Nevertheless, there are considerable areas of such treated teak
forest, as well as possibly other areas not having been treated, with reasonable potential
that could benefit from stand improvement treatments and yield poles and timber through
coppice cutting, singling and thinning. This includes approximately 110,000 ha of forest
already partially treated under this or the previous project. Although teak thinning
operations were delayed by the late approval of working plans, there is scope for a great
deal more thinning to be undertaken.

However, given the age and current condition of at least the more reasonable teak forests,
a site-specific approach is required for both basic stand improvement and thinning. The
Research Wing, together with the World Bank mission forestry consultant have spent
some time examining the state of teak forests under the project and the most suitable
prescriptions for their improvement. Following this the Research Wing issued a note
"Teak Stand Improvement Prescriptions".

The note places the project teak forests into three categories and prescribes treatments for
each category, although, it is stressed that it is not practical to give general prescriptions
given the highly variable nature of the stands and so prescriptions need to be given after
careful consideration of the stocking and condition of the stand in each case. The three
broad categories are as follows:

    a) The quality of the teak is poor, with high stumps, poor form and great variability
        in diameter and height growth, while uneconomic miscellaneous growth is much
        in evidence. This site is most probably best suited to removal of the existing


                                             70
        growth, which has very poor potential to produce more than firewood, and
        replant with teak or other timber species. However, the potential for the
        economic success of any replanting will depend on the soil and site conditions.
        In many instances, this category occurs on sites where the soil has become quite
        impoverished in depth and nutrients. If replanting is not an economically viable
        option, improvement may be attempted by systematically harvesting on an
        annual coupe basis what wood products are available through coppice cutting to
        about 10cm above the ground followed by singling of the resulting coppice. In
        both improvement scenarios soil and moisture works would play an important
        role.
    b) The quality of coppice is quite good in terms of form and growth. However, there
        is almost no natural regeneration of teak visible. This situation could be due to a
        combination of soil degradation, fire and/or bovine interference. The first
        requirement for stand improvement is complete protection against fire and
        grazing. Depending on the nature of the stand and whether satisfactory earlier
        treatments have been undertaken, stand improvement would involve a
        combination of coppice cutting, singling and thinning. Given the age of the
        stands now and over the next few years, the growth that has occurred even
        without proper treatments would likely be sufficient to ensure that even coppice
        cutting and singling will yield revenue from the sale of firewood, poles and even
        small timber. This has been the case in Nirmal Division where Sainagar Thanda
        VSS sold high stumps and poles from coppice cutting 30 ha for Rs 100,000.
        Gaps may be planted or sown with seeds of teak or other merchantable
        hardwoods. Soil and moisture conservation works also need to be repaired or
        build.
    c) There is reasonable quality coppice in terms of form and growth, with a majority
        of stems originating from low cut stumps, and there is good teak natural
        regeneration. Some singling may be required, but thinning is likely to be an
        important need. This would follow procedures developed already in Karimnagar
        West Division with annual coupes being determined and removals being based
        on the site-specific nature of the stand following a complete enumeration.

Miscellaneous, Non-Teak Forests
The Miscellaneous Forests accounted for approximately 228,000 ha of the forests under
APCFMP VSS control. This forest was quite variable in composition and condition.
Valuable merchantable species may be present from seedlings and coppice to reasonably
sized trees. Such species include Adina cordifolia, Mitragyna parviflora, Albizzia
odorissima, Terminalia tomentose, T. bellerica, Dalbergia latifolia, Pterocarpus
marsupium, Schleichera trijuga, Schrebera sweitinoides, and Xylia xylocarpa. There are
also varying quantities of NTFPs, including Phylanthus emblica (Usiri), Sterculia urens
(Gum Karya), Diospiros melanoxylon (Beedi Leaf), Buchnania lanzan, Pongamia
pinnata (Kanuga), Tamarindus indica (Tamarind), Annona squamosa (Seethapal),
Wrightia tintoria, Andrographis paniculata, Aegle marmelos, and Asparagus racemosus.

These forests were often not as badly degraded as the teak forests and some had
reasonable stocking of trees, while in other areas they had been badly degraded. After


                                           71
several years of protection by the VSS there has also been considerable regeneration and
growth, particularly in the previously degraded forests. However, after treating 76,300 ha
with cleaning and coppice cutting it was found that this method of stand improvement
was not cost effective. Many desirable species did not coppice and in a number of sites
there was a lack of either readily merchantable timber trees or NTFPs. A stakeholders'
meeting then agreed that a more targeted approach was appropriate. This involved the
preferential treatment of desirable NTFP trees and bushes. The treatment consisted of
clearing unwanted vegetation around the chosen NTFP plant, working the soil for about a
meter around the plant and digging a semi-lunar trench to improve water retention.

This preferential treatment was undertaken in over 18,714 ha of forest managed by 670
VSS, with an average of 50 to 100 trees per ha being treated. The main species involved
were Seethapal and Usiri and, anecdotal data shows that the treatment has successfully
improved yields, both in terms of numbers of fruit and size of fruit. E.g. in
Mahabubnagar and Karimnagar Divisions Seethapal fruit production per tree has risen
around 100 percent or an increase of 20 to 30 fruit per tree, while fruit size has increased
by as much as 50 percent. However, it also should be pointed out that, as a general rule,
VSS with NTFPs available in their forests have experienced improved yields over the
project period, presumably because of protection as well as soil and moisture
conservation measures. Income from the sale of NTFPs was shown to have risen by 56
percent (INR1,334/household or US$30).32

Using NREGS funds, work should continue to expand the preferential treatments for
NTFPs where this is appropriate and communities desire it. Such treatment should also
include the planting of more Terminalia tomentosa and T. arjuna, plus the pollarding and
improvement of existing trees, for the production of tassa silk as is being done in
Paloncha Division.

Bamboo Forest Rejuvenation

The rejuvenation of bamboo in natural forests has been a major source of forest products
and revenue through project interventions. Out of a target of 50,000 ha, 22,700 ha were
treated; mainly Dendrocalamus strictus, the more thick-walled species, preferred for pulp
and paper, and construction, although there is also D. hamiltonii included in the
treatments. By 2005, 16,200 ha of the treatments were completed, after which the
emphasis shifted to the under-planting of bamboo rhizomes as a means of supplementing
future bamboo resources and enhancing the productivity of the forests. Bamboo clumps
within the forest were usually heavily congested with many dying and dead culms.
Treatment involved decongestion and soil working together with the digging of water-
holding trenches around the clumps. Initially, the practice followed earlier guidelines
that called for substantial mounding of soil around the clumps. However, this was
determined to promote further congestion and inhibit spreading of the rhizomes. So the
prescription was changed to include only limited mounding over about a one meter radius
to a height no higher than 20cm.

32
     CENPAP (2010), based on a sample of 5,065 households.



                                                   72
The decongestion often yielded reasonable quantities of industrial cuts for pulp furnish
and a few long bamboos. Over the life of the project revenue from these decongestion
operations and subsequent harvesting has provided a total of INR82.5 million (US$1.9
million). Without further expansion of such treatments, harvesting of forest bamboo is
projected to yield, on average, 4,000 MT of industrial cuts and 40 million long bamboos
annually over the next ten years, providing some INR72 million (US$1.6 million) in
gross revenue.

However, the potential for expansion of the program is there with only 84, 000 ha of the
estimated 145,000 ha of bamboo forest having been treated under APCFMP or APFP.
Future plans for the VSS forest should include expanding the rejuvenation of naturally
occurring bamboo clumps, particularly in those VSS where only limited forest-based
assets have been developed and short as well as long term revenue prospects are low. For
those clumps already undergoing harvesting at least annual maintenance with soil
working and trenching around each clump is required and should be part of the micro-
plan/re-investment plan. Re-investment funds will be increasingly available for
rejuvenating and managing further natural bamboo stocks. Using 50 percent of the
expected average annual revenue of INR72 million (US$1.6 million) would enable some
9,000 ha of new bamboo rejuvenation each year.

Eucalypt Plantations

The initial project design had 10,800 ha of short-rotation woody crops and NTFPs to be
planted mainly in the dry scrub forests and 2,000 ha planted in poor teak and
miscellaneous VSS forest areas. However, from 2004/05, the plantation program was
expanded, both within the scrub forest and in other areas in order to help ensure VSS
communities had sufficient short-term forest-based revenue. By project close 13,460 ha
of eucalypt plantations had been established, using mainly clonal planting material.
Weighted average survival over all divisions was 74 percent, ranging from lows of
around 50 percent to highs or over 90 percent. However, growth estimates and
projections were harder to come by, despite repeated requests from several missions. The
benefit of monitoring growth and predicting yield while plantations are growing has been
slow to be accepted by APFD field staff.

The Research Wing developed a one-way volume table, based on girth at breast height
(gbh) and this was finally used for an inventory of sample plantations in Nellore Division
in 2009. This showed an average mean annual increment (MAI) of 7.7 m3/ha/year,
giving an average annual yield at a seven-year rotation of 54 m3/ha (35 MT). However,
the results are highly variable with MAIs ranging from 3.7 and 15.4 m3/ha/year for trees
planted in 2005, and between 3.4 and 18.7 m3/ha/year for trees planted in 2004. There is
also evidence that make the sampling somewhat dubious. Firstly, a number of non-
project plantations established prior to 2002 are included and these are generally of
poorer growth. Secondly, the average gbh is low overall for each age class (e.g. the
average gbh for 2003 trees is 29cm, ranging from 22 to 37cm, while that for 2004
plantings is 28.5 cm, ranging from 21 to 34 cm), and more inconsistent between age
classes within VSS than could be attributed to site quality differences.


                                           73
The Energy Research Institute (TERI) carried out an extensive survey of eucalypt
plantations as part of a study on carbon sequestration. Their findings showed an average
stand volume of 58 m3/ha at five years of age; an MAI of 12 m3/ha/year. Projecting this,
using the same MAI for the sixth and seventh year gives a volume of 84 m3/ha (55MT) at
seven years. Field observations and measurements gave MAI estimates of between 14
and 20 m3/ha/year giving projected yields at seven years of 100 to 140 m3/ha (65 to 90
MT/ha) except in Bhadrachalam North, where yields of around 100 MT/ha have been
achieved and are expected with MAIs of approximately 25 m3/ha/year.

For comparison, Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (FDC) clonal eucalypt
plantations, planted at 1,666 plants per ha (3X2 m) yielded, on average 60 MT/ha in poor
sites and 80 to 90 MT/ha on good sites in Nellore Division, while in Kothagudem
Division actual yields have been 92 and 100 MT/ha with survival of between 85 and 94
percent. APCFM Project eucalypt yields are, therefore, below what could be expected
with good care and management, but, overall, it would not be unreasonable to expect
yields, on average, of 75 to 80 m3/ha or 50 MT/ha considering the above data, and
possibly more on some sites.

Although, it has generally been considered that the clonal planting materials provide far
better growth prospects for the eucalypts, and other species, nevertheless, field
observations on several sites have shown that clonal seed orchard (CSO) planting stock
has produced comparable results. Consideration may, therefore, be given to using more
CSO stock for planting as it is less expensive to produce and may be less liable to attacks
of the gall wasp. This pest has infested many clonal plantations; particularly clone No 10
plants, during the first year or two of growth. No lasting damage has occurred, although
growth of infected trees would have been adversely affected. No widespread control
measures were able to be employed.

Overall, the semi-mechanically established plantations of eucalypts under the project
have successfully provided a short-term source of revenue as well as turning relatively
unproductive, badly degraded forest into a productive resource providing primarily
pulpwood, but also with the potential to provide roundwood for other products.
Harvesting of project established plantations is due to start in 2010 with an estimated
average annual yield of some 112,000 MT (180,000 m3) and an average annual revenue
generated of INR220 million (US$4.9 million) over the next 11 years. Re-investment in
further plantations is already underway in 266 VSS using revenues received from
harvesting of plantations established prior to APCFMP. A further 1,155 VSS are poised
for undertaking re-investment programs in the coming year and eventually 1,345 VSS
should be reinvesting with funds derived from eucalypt plantations. Planning for and
undertaking this re-investment will be a substantial undertaking requiring expert
knowledge. It was felt that clustering the VSS and using FDA will facilitate the provision
of the required ongoing technical support, including the hiring of experts using VSS
funds. An FDA has already incorporated all VSS as members in Nellore Division and it is
planned to expand this program.




                                            74
Future revenue from eucalypt plantations is capable of establishing an additional 3,000 to
2,000 ha of short or long rotation wood plantations each year. This could be in addition
to the thousands of hectares plantations planned for establishment using NREGS funds
over the next few years. These new plantations could add a further INR200 million
(US$4.5 million) in gross revenues annually to the VSS from about 2018 when product
harvesting commences. Such plantations, established on badly degraded forest sites,
would help to optimize productivity from the forest land base, which is currently being
underutilized. Future market demand for wood is projected to be high. Total roundwood
equivalent demand of 74 million m3 in India in 2005 is expected to rise to 153 million
m3 by 2020, with paper, paper board and newsprint roundwood equivalent demand rising
from 12 million m3 in 2005 to 42 million m3 in 202033.

In planning for further plantations consideration should be given to the planting of
alternative short and long rotation species. Alternative short rotation species with
possible potential are Kadam (Anthocephalus cadamba), Melia azardirach, Acacia
auriculaformis/A. mangium hybrid and Casuarina junghuhniana. Gmelina arborea was
considered as a short or long rotation species; however, trials have shown it to be highly
variable in growth and form, indicating it should not be relied upon except on proven
sites. Long rotation timber species, which would give a valuable alternative, could
include Mitragyna parvifolia, Albizzia odorissima, Dalbergia latifolia (Rosewood),
Tectona grandis (Teak), Radamachera xylocarpa (Rangoon Teak), and Soymida
febrifuga (Somi). These have all shown promise in trials undertaken through the project.

NTFP and Pongamia Plantations

Approximately 4,360 ha of various types of NTFP and 9,420 ha of Pongamia plantations
were established under APCFMP using semi-mechanical methods. The main NTFP
species planted were Neredu, Usiri, Seethapal, Tamarind and Neem. The objective was
to provide short-term income to the VSS involved. However, insufficient consideration
was given to the special needs of these horticultural crops, as distinct from trees grown
for wood. The same Forest Schedule of Work maintenance schedules were applied,
whereby maintenance was only carried out for two years after the planting year. As a
result survival, growth and potential yield have been adversely affected on many sites.
Weighted average survivals ranged from 45 to 66 percent and 68 percent for Pongamia,
although, many plants surviving are not in good condition. The impression gained from
field visits has been that many VSS tend to concentrate on the eucalypt plantations and
pay only minimal attention to the NTFP and Pongamia plantations with few if any plans
for further maintenance.

As was discussed during several missions over the last two or three years of the project,
maintenance of these NTFPs and Pongamia needs to be continued beyond the FSR
period, in some cases indefinitely. In the final year of the project protocols for the
management of NTFP plantations were produced by the Research Wing. These include

33
 Pandey C.N. and Rangaraju T.S. (2008). India's industrial wood balance. International Forestry Review
Vol.10 (2) 2008.



                                                  75
ongoing soil working, fertilizing with vermicompost, urea and DAP, appropriate pruning
of branches to promote flowering and fruiting, and spraying with hormone to prevent
flower drop, which tends to be quite prevalent. The concept of interplanting medicinal
plants or non-climbing legumes was also discussed. This would utilize the ploughed
space between the NTFP and Pongamia plants at 5 x 5 m spacing. As was suggested
earlier, it might also be beneficial to determine the responsibility for plantation
management; whether the whole VSS or individual CEGs or families.

Despite the poorer than expected maintenance, the NTFP and Pongamia plantations
established under the project should still yield valuable revenues, particularly if work is
now undertaken to rehabilitate and maintain them. A conservative estimate is that some
5,000 MT of NTFP produce should be harvested annually providing roughly Rs40
million in revenue. The Pongamia plantations are projected to produce about 10,000 MT
of fruit worth approximately INR60 million (US$1.3 million). However, the flowering
and fruiting potential of Pongamia plantations has yet to be verified and there is some
suspicion that possibly only 50 percent or so of plants will bear fruit. On the optimistic
side a number of Pongamia plants established in 2005 and 2006 (seed origin) were
observed to be flowering and fruiting in Cuddapah Division during the ICRR mission.

                Table A-15. Plantations Established under APCFMP

       Planted Species                  Area Planted           Weighted Average Survival
                                            (ha)                       (percent)
Eucalypt                                      13,460                            74
Pongamia                                       9,420                            68
Usiri                                           1530                            63
Seethapal                                        530                            61
Neredu                                         1,130                            66
Tamarind                                         180                            45
Neem                                             450                            72
Bixa                                             520                            64
Bamboo                                         1,900                            64
Bamboo Underplanting                          20,230                            60
Pongamia (Gap Planting)                       14,310                            63


Bamboo Plantations

The project planted 1,900 ha of bamboo plantations using semi-mechanical methods,
again as a means of VSS members obtaining early income. The success has been varied
with overall weighted survival rates being 60 to 65 percent. However, growth is highly
variable. In some cases, particularly when two-year old rhizomes were used, growth
rates and culm development have been exceptional. In Khammam Circle two and a half
year old plantings had between 15 and 35 culms per clump with reasonable height and
culm diameter growth. On the other hand, a number of sites have had poor growth and
inadequate culm development, e.g. less than 10 culms in seven-year old plantations in
Khammam Division. In some cases, the soil conditions may not have been suitable for



                                            76
reasonable bamboo growth resulting in poor performance. Unfortunately, reports on
monitoring of growth of all plantations have been grossly deficient.

Although there is no empirical data on the status of plantations apart from survival
counts, observations and anecdotal evidence from field officers indicates that in most
cases maintenance has been lacking, despite the issue being raised in supervision
missions from 2008. Following the FSR ploughing was only done for two years after
planting and often only for one year. No further soil working around the clumps has been
done. In cases where growth of culms has been good, congestion and culm deaths have
occurred due to a lack of timely decongestion. Cases of congested six-year old clumps
have been sighted. By 2013, when full harvesting will be underway, yields from these
plantations should average nearly 2,000 MT of industrial cuts and 1.5 million long
bamboo culms for an average annual revenue of approximately Rs21 million.

It would seem the best prescription for bamboo plantation maintenance is ploughing at
least till the first decongestion/harvest or for at least for the first three years. FDC are
now ploughing every second non-harvest year. Soil working should be done each year to
a one meter radius around the clump with construction and upkeep of a circular trench.
Mounding should be no higher than 20 cm and extend to the trench. Decongestion needs
to start when there are 20 to 30 culms, after at least two years. Other bamboo species
may be considered for sites unsuitable for Dendrocalamus strictus. There is also good
potential in some divisions, such as Kakinada, to interplant bamboo with eucalypts, as
trials have shown, thus improving returns per unit area.


Other Forest Improvement Plantings

Bamboo Underplanting: Some 20,200 ha of teak and miscellaneous forest have been
underplanted as part of forest improvement treatments. The concept was that such
underplanting would be done where the forest canopy was open or sparse, allowing
sufficient light for bamboo growth. However, in reality, it seems that this guideline was
not often followed and, in the interests of meeting planting targets or approximately 125
plants per hectare, the bamboo rhizomes were planted on a somewhat regular spaced
basis without regard for canopy cover. In some cases rhizomes were planted adjacent to
existing timber trees. Sufficient thought was also not always given to the suitability of
sites for bamboo.

As a result, considerable bamboo rhizomes were planted, with survival averaging 60
percent, but ranging from 15 to 90 percent. However, growth, as reported by FD
divisional staff and mission field observations, is generally poor. Protection has been
minimal and a lot of browsing has taken place, while little follow up maintenance has
been undertaken. In some areas culm diameter and height growth is poor because of
unsuitable site conditions. Nevertheless, the bamboo underplanting program will add to
the forest stocking, particularly in areas with suitable soils, adequate canopy openings
and less biotic interference. A conservative estimate at potential yields considering the
poor state of the crop has an annual average cut of about 1,200 MT of industrial cuts and
800,000 long bamboo culms for an average revenue of some INR11 million


                                            77
(US$247,000), which is about half of what should be expected with reasonable survival
and growth.

Gap Planting: A further exercise in stand improvement was the widespread planting of
Pongamia and other NTFPs in forest gaps. Unfortunately, very little follow-up care and
maintenance was taken with these plantings and in some cases any species available in
nurseries were planted without due regard for the suitability of the site. The result is that
much of the plantings could be deemed as failures. Although overall survival rates are 63
percent (ranging from 30 to 90 percent), growth is generally very poor. Projected yields
from these plantings will be low with only 15 to 20 percent of planted Pongamia
potentially bearing fruit. As a means of improving forest cover and productivity this
operation was not satisfactory.

Barren Hills Afforestation: As with the Gap Planting, this was another exercise
instigated mainly from 2004 as a means of reforesting poor, bare hilly sites with the VSS
forest areas. A total of 8,480 ha were planted with a mixture of NTFPs, including
Pongamia, and bamboo. Again, this was not an overall success. Survival is estimated to
be similar or less than the Gap Plantings and growth equally disappointing due to poor,
often harsh, site conditions, minimal site preparation, inappropriate choice of species in
some instances, an almost total lack of follow-up care and maintenance, and browsing of
palatable species.


Tsunami and Cyclone Mitigation

Coastal Shelterbelts

In order to help establish a coastal bioshield for protection against tsunamis and cyclones
approximately 200 km (2,830 ha) of Casuarina (Casuarina equisetifolia) have been
established by VSS on sand dunes. The plantings have followed a somewhat regular
format depending on the width of coastal land available above the high tide mark. For
the first 50 m Casuarina seedlings were planted at a spacing of 2x2 m with Palmyra Palm
nuts being interplanted. Then for the next 100 m or so the Casuarina spacing was 1x1m.
In many instances further woody crop or NTFP species were then planted to the rear of
the shelterbelts, including Pithecellobium dulci, cashews, Neem and Neredu. Survival has
generally been very good for the Casuarina (averaging about 90 percent) and growth is
also good, except on some saline patches.


These shelterbelt plantations have augmented existing Casuarina plantations that vary in
their condition and stocking. They provide a shield to help counter tidal surges and
tsunamis that have in the past caused considerable lost of life and property. They will
also provide wood for subsistence and income to the VSS involved, many of whom are
greatly impoverished. The growth of the closely spaced trees together with their
tendency for heavy branching or plagiotrophism has resulted in the agreed
recommendation (September 2008) that low pruning be undertaken after two years and
thinning also be undertaken from the third year. Both these operations will yield


                                             78
firewood for subsistence and sale and not adversely affect the integrity of the shelterbelt.
It is understood that such operations were commencing as the project closed.

Mangrove Rehabilitation

As a further bioshield measure as well as to restore the ecology of badly degraded
mangroves 2,190 ha of mangroves were restored in the Godavari and Krishna river
deltas. This was an expensive operation involving the digging of fishbone channels and
desilting to allow estuarine water to move into the degraded areas. Mangrove seedlings,
principally Avicennia officinalis and A. marina, were then planted along the channels.
Survival has been good (as observed on field inspections and as reported). However, it
was also observed that considerable natural regeneration of mangroves was also
occurring as fruit or propagules were washed in and deposited by the tidal flows.
Although this may provide an alternative to planting seedling, the latter still appears to be
needed, particularly where water movement is more frequent and seed or propagules
aren't as easily deposited. After two years of regeneration the rehabilitated mangrove
sites are also showing signs of improved ecology with various ground vegetation
occurring and crabs are becoming plentiful. The restored mangroves should eventually
also add to the marine ecology. As has been suggested on earlier missions, an inventory
or study or the current biodiversity would provide useful empirical information on the
actual changes that have taken place.


Applied Research

The applied research undertaken through the project has had a highly beneficial effect on
the outcome of the project and on the future of community-based and farm forestry in
AP. The research which, to some extent, followed up on earlier work done under APFP
as well as introducing several new programs, followed several themes:

    a) Improvement of planting stock;
    b) Natural forest improvement treatments;
    c) Development of bio-fertilizers

Improvement of Planting Stock

Following work started under APFP, research enhanced the productivity of wood
plantations through the propagation of clonal planting materials for Eucalypts, Casuarina
and Teak. In the case of Eucalypts, this has meant an improvement in productivity of
between 100 and 150 percent, which has enabled plantation managers to reduce the
pulpwood and pole rotations from 10 to 6 or 7 years. Although not all of the 13,460 ha
of Eucalypts planted were clonal, the majority was. Thus assuming 80 percent was clonal
planting stock, with an incremental yield over the first rotation averaging 28 MT/ha, then
the total incremental yield from the use of clonal Eucalypt planting materials under the
project is 300,000 MT valued at INR600 million (US$13.5 million). And this incremental



                                             79
yield extends to subsequent coppice rotations producing a project further 300,000 MT for
the second rotation.

Research has also established clonal and seedling seed orchards for Eucalypts and
Casuarina. The use of seed from these is estimated to improve yields of Eucalypts and
Casuarina by about 25 percent. So for the estimated 2,690 ha of Eucalypts planted with
CSO seed the average incremental yield over the first rotation would be about 8 MT/ha,
giving a total incremental yield of 20,000 MT, valued at INR40 million (US$900,000).
This gives a total estimated incremental yield for Eucalypts in their first rotation through
improved planting stock of 320,000 MT valued at INR640 million (US$14.4 million).

Similarly, the development of clonal stock for direct planting or grafting of NTFPs has
greatly added to the yield potential for species such as Pongamia, Tamarind, Usiri and
Seethapal. With progeny trials having been established and advanced to the second or
third generation for eucalypts and Casuarina there is potential for further improvement
over succeeding years.

              Table A-16. Value of Improved Eucalypt Planting Materials

  Type of      Rotation    Yield        Mean       Incremental      Average     Avg. Total     Value of
  Planting     Length      for 1st     Annual       Yield with      Value of    Incr. Yield   Incr. Yield
   Stock        (years)   Rotation    Increment     Improved      Incremental    Projected      Project
                          (MT/ha)    (MT/ha/yr)      Planting        Yield         Plant      Plantations
                                                      Stock         (Rs/ha)        (MT)        (Rs mill)
                                                     (MT/ha)
Unimproved          10    25 to 30      2.5 to 3
seedling
stock
Clonal               7    45 to 54        6 to 8      20 to 35         56,000      300,000           600
planting
stock
Clonal Seed          7      28 to       4 to 4.5         7 to 9        16,000       20,000            40
Orchard                        30
Stock

With the objective of providing alternative species for short-rotation wood production as
well as for the production of longer rotation timber production, a series of trials were laid
out for such species as Gmelina arborea, Casuarina junghuhniana and Ailanthus excels
plus progeny trials for a series of valuable timber species that are disappearing from the
AP forests, including Dalbergia latifolia (Rosewood), Albizzia odoratissima, Adina
cordifolia, Mitragyna parviflora, Radernachera (Rangoon Teak), and Pterocarpus
marsupium.

As part of the program to ensure optimal planting stock for varying conditions a series of
925 multi-locational clonal trials (MLCTs) plus trials of valuable indigenous trees,
covering 1,290 ha under the care of 755 VSS were established. Unfortunately, a number
of the trials have not been properly maintained or monitored and deterioration has set in.
However, many are in a position to provide valuable insights into the correct clones for


                                             80
various NTFPs to plant in a given area and are being monitored. These MLCT will also
provide a source of future revenue for the VSS involved from the sale of fruit plus,
potentially, clonal planting materials.

Natural Forest Management Treatments

As stand improvement treatments in the natural forests were taken from existing working
plan prescriptions it was felt that research should be done to determine if these treatments
actually were the most optimal for the forest and site conditions encountered in the VSS
forest areas. Accordingly, the following research was undertaken:

    a) Determining a simple methodology to estimate growing stock and growth rates in
       treated and untreated forests.
    b) Trials to determine the optimal teak thinning regime, including the thinning
       intensity and resulting spacing as well as the age at which various thinnings
       should be undertaken. Preliminary results have given initial guidelines and these
       have been further developed based on actually thinning experiences.
    c) Trials to determine the effect of singling intensity and timing for teak coppice
       shoots on subsequent growth of the remaining coppice shoots.
    d) Trials on canopy density and silvicultural operations effect on bamboo growth.
    e) Trial plots to study the impact of SMC works on forest growth, productivity and
       regeneration.
    f) Trials on the outcome of in-situ grafting of several NTFPs.

Development of Bio-Fertilizers

Like many trees, the roots of eucalypts form symbiotic relationships with fungi. In India
the most common of these mycorryhiza is Pisolithus tinctorius (PT), and work was
undertaken to produce and supply this bio-fertilizer to the nurseries with the aim being to
improve growth. However, data on the extent to which growth was improved, if at all, by
the application of PT is not available.


Forest Management Planning and Monitoring

As a prelude to any further actions within the VSS forests micro-plans need to be up-
dated together with livelihood and forest re-investment plans. For most, if not all VSS
the current micro-plans expired in 2007 or 2008, which coincided with the original
closing of the project and included most, if not all, forest improvement treatments and
plantations planned for each VSS. However, with new treatments, maintenance works
and plantations proposed, these need to be set within a planning framework for each VSS
forest. It is suggested that the micro-plans be integrated with harvest and re-investment
plans. They should not be as detailed as was previously the case, being as short and
simple as possible, giving a description of the forest and its condition, plus a brief history


                                             81
of treatments and plantation work undertaken to date. They should then provide details
of the proposed maintenance of existing plantations, new forest improvement treatments,
including thinnings, and new plantations plus the costs estimates for each operation.
Harvesting and re-investment plans should also include projected harvests and revenues
from NTFP plantations, plus further investment in maintenance and new NTFP
plantations. And all plans should be prepared on a fully participatory basis.

One of the key functions originally considered for the FMIS at Appraisal was for it to act
as a data base for forest and plantation growth data so that this could be used to predict
future yields of various forest products. Unfortunately, this did not happen. However, it
should now be possible to collect growth data from at least Eucalypt, Casuarina and
Bamboo plantations as well as from teak forests undergoing thinning. When this is
combined with the area and planting year data already available for these plantations and
plantation establishment dates a valuable tool will exist to monitor the growing stock and
predict yields. Each VSS needs to be trained to undertake and record the data from a 5
percent inventory using the one-way (gbh) volume table available for Eucalypt
plantations. A similar exercise can be undertaken in Casuarina plantations and a method
determined to inventory bamboo plantations. Pre-thinning enumeration data from the
teak forests may also be recorded. The extremely valuable resources represented here
require this sort of monitoring, considering the investment undertaken by GoAP and now
by VSS, as well as the need to match market demand for products with growing stock
and projected yields.




                                           82
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

PAD Estimated Project Benefits and Rate of Return

Project cost benefit analysis in the PAD focused on quantifying benefits from two major
sources namely; (a) NTFP collection; and (b) VSS income by the sale of poles, small
timber, pulp wood and timber, generated through various forest treatments. Ten forest
treatment models are used to quantify the benefits from different forest type/land
treatment strategies. They are (i) rejuvenation of teak forest, (ii) non-teak forest, (iii)
bamboo forest, (iv) teak with bamboo forest, (v) non-teak with bamboo forest, (vi) teak
forest with NTFPs, (vii) non-teak forest with NTFPs, (viii) NTFP with fodder and
medicinal plants plantations, (ix) NTFP with small timber plantations, and (x) red sanders
forest rejuvenation. The analysis was done for a 35-year period at October 2001 prices
using 12 percent as opportunity cost of capital.

The PAD estimated that VSS income for forest models of (ii) non-teak forest, (iv) teak
with bamboo forest, (v) non-teak with bamboo forest, and (vi) teak with NTFPs generate
on an average 5.5 times more incremental income as compared to other forest treatment
types. Financial rate of return (FRR) varied from 15 percent for red sanders to 29 percent
for teak forest and teak with bamboo treatments. NTFP with fodder and medicinal plants
yielded 18 percent FRR. For all other forest treatment types, FRR was above 22 percent.
Aggregate FRR for all the forest treatments was 27 percent. Benefits from social forestry
and community development are not included. With the inclusion of all project costs in
the analysis, except community development cost, FRR was estimated at 21 percent
which came down to 19 percent with the inclusion of community development costs.

The economic analysis in the PAD used a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 for
internationally non-tradable project inputs and outputs except for timber for which VSS
farm gate value was considered to represent adequately its economic value. The project
costs are converted to economic costs with SCF and used after netting out taxes. The
ERR for the project was estimated at 20.9 percent, without including the community
development costs. The difference between FRR and ERR was only marginal.

The PAD documentation of cost benefit analysis in Annex 4 is incomplete. The
paragraph on summary of benefits and costs and main assumptions (page 56 of PAD)
underlying the ten forest treatment models and cost benefit analysis are blank. This is
also not discussed in the text. The PAD cost benefit analysis work sheets were also not
available to the mission and could not be located by the Bank team in hard or electronic
files. Hence, it is impossible to compare the results of ICRR estimations with PAD to
explain the differences in terms of assumptions and findings. One can speculate that the
ex ante evaluation might have used overly optimistic assumptions regarding growth and
yield or product prices for example, but it is impossible to determine.




                                            83
ICRR Estimation Methodology

The project has treated 345,259 ha of forest lands through 5,153 VSSs. Following the
forest treatments adopted in the project, nine forest treatment models are formulated to
quantify the benefits from (i) bamboo rejuvenation, (ii) bamboo plantations, (iii) bamboo
under planting, (iv) eucalyptus plantations, (v) teak rejuvenation, (vi) Pongamia
plantations, (vii) non teak miscellaneous species rejuvenation, (viii) casuarinas and (ix)
alma plantations, all of which will cover 301,745 ha, 87 percent of the total VSS forest
area treated. Benefits are quantified for each treatment type and then aggregated for forest
treatment as a whole. The project has focused on livelihood enhancement around MTR
with an emphasis on cluster based livelihood enterprises and individual/CEG based
livelihood income activities. Two major cluster-based livelihood enterprises namely adda
leaf plates and agarbathi stick production from bamboo, plus community based eco
tourism are evaluated for assessing the benefits. Income generated from about 39
individual/CEG level income generating activities is quantified. The RAP covering
12,528 PAFs during the project is evaluated to quantify the benefits.

For cost benefit analysis, data from multiple sources are compiled and used. They include
special studies commissioned by the project for evaluating the project impacts.
Concurrent M&E and a Socio economic impact assessment study of APCFMP provided
the database covering 12,676 HHs drawn from 625 VSSs for assessing the income,
employment and poverty alleviation impacts of project interventions. The RAP impact
assessment study provided database covering 433 PAFs from 55 VSSs for quantifying the
livelihood income impacts of the project on PAFs. Project documents provided the
database for 3,053 members linked with 14 adda leaf plate clusters; 3,249 members
linked with 23 agarbathi stick clusters; and 87 members linked with 5 CBET sites for
assessing the income impacts of project beneficiaries participating in forest-based
activities. These databases are supplemented by the secondary data sources, ICRR
mission's field visits, Bank's supervision reports and interactions with the project
implementing agencies for quantifying the physical benefits and assessing the project
costs. All project costs are included in the analysis at constant 2009 prices. Total project
cost at constant 2009 prices is INR7,429 million.


Project Benefits

Forest treatment benefits: Forest treatment covered 345,259 ha of VSS managed forest
lands, 9 percent more than the PAD target. The forest treatment cost accounted for 42
percent of the project costs. The nine types of forest treatments, based on the predominant
type of species in each of the treatments, are used for quantifying the benefits from forest
treatments implemented by the project VSSs. Except for teak and non-teak forest
regeneration, other treatments are not comparable between the PAD and ICRR. Semi-
mechanical (SMM) eucalyptus plantations are planted in 13,459 ha. Eucalyptus yield data
is projected at 45 MT per ha, based on the growth of eucalyptus clonal plantations taken
up in 478 blocks, totaling 4,236 ha, spread over 137 VSSs covering one to five years of



                                            84
age after planting. Teak thinning yield is taken based on the actual yield realized in the
teak forests with treatment starting 1994-96. Thinning in 22.5 ha of teak forests during
2009 removed 30 percent of the plants, yielding poles and small timber valued at
INR28,000 to 40,000 per ha. The estimated productivity, thinning cycles and harvesting
cycles used for the nine forest or plantation types are outlined in the models in an
annexure separately.

Livelihood enterprises: NTFPs provide a major source of income for over 80 percent of
the project benefited families. Three forest based livelihood enterprises, initiated through
CEGs/CFCs/Clusters providing forward and backward linkages to the participating poor
families, are evaluated for employment generation and livelihood enhancement.

Adda leaf plates: The project has facilitated the formation of 43 clusters with a total
membership of 20,480 spread over 800 VSSs with an average functioning period of 18
months at an investment cost of INR6.6 million (US$148,000). Data available from 14
clusters covering a sample of 3,053 members is analyzed and projected for 43 clusters.
The value addition process involves collection of adda leaves, stitching into plates and
selling them to CFCs, who in turn market them to the wholesale buyers. About 8 percent
of the members are very active members, who collect the adda leaves, stitch them into
plates and selling them to CFCs. About 4 percent are active members who buy the raw
leaves, stitch them into leaf plates and sell them to CFCs. The remaining 88 percent are
normal members who collect the raw leaves and sell them directly to others including the
CEG members. Value addition in the conversion of raw adda leaves into leaf plates is
substantial. One head load of raw adda leaf costing INR200 (US$4.50) produces about
1,500 leaf plates selling them at INR488 (US$10.07), generating a value addition of 2.4
times as compared to selling as raw adda leaves. Annually, each member
collects/procures 12 head loads of adda leaves, converts them into 91 bundles of leaf
plates and sells them through CFCs. Wage income is linked to productivity. In this
process, three categories of project participants are benefited.

       Figure A-6. Adda Leaf Enterprise: Income Impact (INR/Year/member)




                                            85
Adda leaf plats are being used mainly by pilgrims. Markets of the plates are enormous
having Tirumala Venkateswara Temple in Tirupati (the most visited holy place in the
world), Andhra Pradesh, for example, which is visited by about 50,000 to 100,000
pilgrims daily, while on special occasions and festivals, like the annual Brahmotsavam,
the number of pilgrims goes up to 500,000.

There are 17,930 VSS members, who collect adda leaves and directly sell them as raw
adda leaves to make an annual gross margin income of INR2,400 (US$54) per annum.
Second, there are 865 active members, who buy the raw adda leaves, stitch them into leaf
plates and sell the plates to the CFCs to make an annual income of INR3,450 (US$78)
per annum, 44 percent more than the normal members. Third, there are 1,685 very active
members, who collect adda leaves, stitch them into leaf plates and then sell the plates to
CFCs to make an annual income of INR 5,850 per annum, 144 percent more than the
normal members and 70 percent more than the active members (Figure 1). Weighted
average annual income for 2,550 members involved in the value addition process is
INR4,650 (US$105) per year per member, 94 percent more than the members who are
not participating in the value addition process.

Value addition through adda leaf plate enterprise generated an income of INR22 million
(US$494,000) from 43 CFC clusters during the project period. Since this activity is done
by the female members from most poor and predominantly landless households, even
though incremental income is only INR2,250 (US$51) per annum per beneficiary, this
has equity, gender and poverty alleviation implications. What is needed to sustain this
adda leaf enterprise is to make the cluster/CFC performance more efficient. Currently, the
CFC incurs a transaction cost of INR13 (US$0.31) per bundle of leaf plates bought by
them from the members and sold them to the wholesale buyers, which is 30 percent more
than the unit sale price gained. If this is not improved, the revolving fund with the CFC
will be eroded, shrinking the scale of activity and making the CFC unviable. While this
enterprise is highly profitable at participating individual HH level, cluster operations need
to be more efficient to minimize the transaction cost and make them viable and self-
sustainable.

Agarbathi sticks from bamboo: The project has facilitated the formation of 23 CFC
clusters with a total membership of 6,450 spread over 157 VSSs with an average
functioning period of 22 months at an investment cost of INR10.8 million(US$243,000).
Data available for 50 percent of the beneficiaries is analyzed and projected for all 23
CFCs. The value addition process involves, harvesting/collection of bamboos, cross-
cutting bamboo into 8" to 10" long pipes, slivering the pipes into strips, stick making and
selling the sticks through the CFCs to the agarbathi manufacturing units. Participating
VSS members were trained in different skills to be engaged in various stages of value the
addition process and their capacity developed to work together in CEGs under CFCs at
cluster level.

On an average, one cluster of CEGs with an active participating membership of 70
processes 30,000 bamboos to produce 17,200 kg of bamboo sticks for selling through
CFCs to agarbathi manufacturing units. Income flow (INR per bamboo culm) for the



                                             86
members involved in various stages of bamboo the value addition process is shown in
Figure 2. Raw bamboo harvesting generates a wage income of INR3 (US$0.07) per
bamboo. Three categories of works are involved in the processing of bamboo and wage
income is linked to productivity. Cross cutting of bamboo into pipes generates a wage
income of INR1 (US$0.02) per bamboo. Slivering of bamboo pipes into bamboo strips
generates a wage income of INR 3.5 per bamboo. Converting strips into sticks generates
a wage income of INR4.7 (US$0.11) per bamboo. Recurrent costs account for INR1.8
(US$0.04) per bamboo for the entire processing to cover transport and other operational
expenditures incurred by CFCs. Average sale price of bamboo sticks is INR15 (US$0.34)
per kg, which leaves a gross margin of INR1 (US$0.02) per bamboo for the CFC. Across
various skills, each member participating in the value addition process generates an
average income of INR4,380 (US$31) per year, which is about 3.4 times the income from
just bamboo extraction. This additional income generated by value addition is shared by
participating members including CFCs.

        Figure A-7. Income Flow in Bamboo Value Addition (INR/ Bamboo)




Bamboo value addition through agarbathi stick making generated an income of INR10
million (US$225,000) from 23 clusters during the project period. Bamboo extraction,
cross-cutting and slivering is done by male members while more labor intensive stick
making job is done by female members from mostly poor and predominantly landless
households. Since this is done during off-season, the bamboo value addition enterprise
helps in reducing the under employment in the participating VSSs while enhancing the
labor productivity.

Community based eco-tourism (CBET): The project has implemented CBET at 20 sites
at an investment cost of INR 74 million. An estimated 355 family members from 25
VSSs are getting direct employment by participating in CBET. Infrastructure
development has been taken up in these locations to provide facilities and enhance the
quality of forest based tourism for the visitors. A sample of five CBETs with a total


                                          87
membership of 87 is evaluated based on the available data from project documents and
mission's field visits. Out of 87 members, 58 are male members and 29 are female
members. Operating costs and profit are assessed for the sample CBETs based on which
the income impact per member is quantified and incremental operating profit is projected
for all CBETs. The sample CBETs have started functioning in different years during the
last five years. The participating members have two sources of income; wage income and
annual bonus from the profit. Averaged over five CBETs, annual income per member is
showing an increase trend (Figure 3). By 2009/10, annual income for each member has
gone up to INR26,900 (US$604), coming from wages (89 percent) and bonus (11
percent). As of now, five CBETs have also built up a total corpus fund of INR2.7 million
(US$61,000) while contributing INR1.6 million (US$36,000) towards VSS share. The
sample CBETs has so far generated INR 5.4 million of operating profit during the last
five years, which is 36 percent of the total operating costs. For all project CBETs,
projected operating profit during the last five years is assessed at INR10.6 million
(US$238,000).

       Figure A-8. CBET Enterprises: Income Impacts (INR/member/year)




Individual/CEG livelihood activities: Project interventions helped in improving
livelihood income for 284,379 beneficiaries in the project VSSs. A household level
income impact study based on concurrent M&E estimated that on an average livelihood
enhancement participating beneficiary has realized an incremental income of INR1,740
(US$39) per year at 2009 prices. Total incremental income generated from livelihood
income generating activities is estimated at INR495 million (US$11.1 million) per year.
Even after netting out the incremental income generated by the three livelihood
enterprises above, income impact of 39 types of individual and CEG based livelihood
enhancement interventions is assessed at INR452 million (US$10.2 million) per year.

Resettlement Action Plan: During the project period, a total of 12,528 project affected
persons (PAFs) are assisted with viable livelihood options. 68 percent of them are land


                                          88
owning HHs and 32 percent are landless HHs. A total amount of INR330 million
(US$7.4 million) was spent implementing the RAP. A sample of 433 PAFs from 45
project VSSs and control VSSs are analyzed to assess the income impacts of RAP
interventions. Out of the sample PAFs, 126 PAFs opted for only land based activities,
105 PAFs opted for both land based and non-land based activities and 131 PAFs opted
for only non-land based activities. PAFs are benefited in several ways; increased irrigated
area for land owning HHs; individual non-land based activities like buffalo, sheep,
plough bullocks, and shops; group activities like tractors, transport vehicles and flour
mills; and by hiring assets like plough bullocks, oil engine and sprayers.

Average income for each PAF increased from INR9,690 to INR 13,585 (US$218 to
US$310) at 2009 real prices, an increase of 40 percent due to the implementation of RAP.
While income from the cultivation came down due to the surrender of podu lands,
additional income from non-land based individual and group activities along with income
from hiring of assets have not only compensated for the surrendered land but yielded
incremental annual income of INR3,895 (US$88) per PAF.

            Figure A-9. RAP: Income Impacts for PAFs (INR/PAF/year)




Rate of Return Analysis

The PAD estimated ERR was 21 percent for the entire project (Table A-17). For
individual forest treatments, the PAD estimated internal rate of return varied from 15 to
29 percent. For the ICRR, incremental benefits from nine forest treatments are quantified
using appropriate plantation models and aggregated for the project as a whole.
Incremental benefits from three forest based enterprises (adda leaf, agarbathi and CBET)
are estimated. Incremental benefits from RAP interventions are assessed for the 12,528
PAFs. ICR estimated ERR for the project as a whole is 19.7 percent and FRR is 20.9
percent which are marginally lower than the PAD estimates.


                                            89
                  Table A-17. APCFMP: Project Analysis Summary

                                                   ICR Estimation                PAD
                Project Analysis
                                           PVC      PVB      NPV      IRR        IRR
             Financial analysis            5,211   10,161    4,950   20.9%   21.0%
             Economic analysis             4,690   8,595     3,904   19.7%   20.9%

All project costs are included in the analysis at constant 2009 prices. For individual forest
treatments, the ICRR estimated rates of return varied from 12 percent for Pongamia
plantations to 25 percent for bamboo rejuvenation treatment (see Table A-18).

The financial rate of returns estimated for teak and non-teak forest regeneration are much
less than the PAD estimates. The bamboo rejuvenation treatment provided high returns
with 25 percent FRR which is the same as the PAD but, under planting of bamboo and
bamboo plantations gave less returns with 12 and 13 percent FRR.

            Table A-18. APCFMP: Project Analysis Summary by Species
                      PAD Estimates                             ICRR Estimates
                                               FRR                                 FRR
                    Forest Type                 (%)            Forest Type          (%)
           Teak                                29       Teak Regeneration          17
           Non-Teak                            27       Non Teak Regeneration      13
           Bamboo                              25       Bamboo Rejuvenation        25
           Teak/Bamboo                         29       Bamboo Under Planting      12
           Non-Teak/Bamboo                     28       Bamboo Plantations         13
           Teak/NTFP                           27       Eucalyptus Plantations     18
           Non-Teak/NTFP                       22       Pongamia Plantations       12
           NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal               18       Casuarina Plantations      13
           NTFP/Small Timber                   23       Amla Plantations           15
           Red Sanders                         15
               Note: at 2009 real prices

The project interventions have helped not only in generating incremental benefits for the
VSS HHs, but also promoted diversification of income sources. Forest management
accounted for 58.4 percent of the total incremental benefits followed by NTFPs (22.9
percent) and livelihood income (17.1 percent) sources. Another noteworthy feature is that
enhanced NTFP and livelihood income have helped to generate early incremental
benefits for the project VSSs to sustain their interest in the project interventions till
harvest income from the plantations start flowing.

As can be seen in Table A-19, the share of forest management benefits in the discounted
total incremental benefits has come down to 46.6 percent and NTFP income has gone up


                                                   90
to 30.6 percent and livelihood income to 20.8 percent. RAP activities accounted for about
2 percent of the incremental benefits.

Table A-19. APCFMP: Average Incremental Benefits from Various Sources
                     Sources                     Unit     Undiscounted    Discounted
       Forest Management                          %                58.4         46.6
       NTFP Income                                %                22.9         30.6
       Livelihood Activities/Enterprises          %                17.1         20.8
       RAP Activities                             %                 1.7          2.0
       Total incremental benefits           INR million           2,442          296


Employment and Poverty Alleviation Impacts

The project interventions have specifically targeted the poor and landless households
(HHs) dependent on forest resources for their livelihood. Prior to the project, incidence of
poverty is 57 percent in the project villages. A total of 5,153 VSSs are supported by the
project with a total membership of 778,100 persons representing 390,000 HHs with an
average family size of five. About 83 percent of the VSS HHs are landless while 57
percent of the VSS HHs belong to the SC/ST category. Better inclusiveness, while
implementing the project interventions by the VSSs, is aided by the fact that the SC/ST
category is well represented in the management committees of VSSs. Together for all
VSSs, 77 percent of the management committee members belong to the SC/ST category,
which is 35 percent higher than their share in the overall VSS membership. During the
project period, the forest management interventions have generated 37.3 million man
days of employment for the VSS members and an amount of INR2,469 or US$ 56 (65
percent of the total forestry works) was disbursed as wage income to the project
beneficiaries through this component. 72 percent of the generated employment has gone
to SC/ST members. The share of female members in the employment is 48 percent.
Forest based income generation activities covering adda leaf, agarbathi and CBET have
benefited 27,077 poor VSS HHs. Among these IGA beneficiaries, 98 percent belong to
the SC/ST categories and 94 percent are women members.

VSS managed forest resources have enhanced the forest productivity and income and also
diversified the sources of income for the project participating HHs. At 2009 real prices,
annual forest based income increased from INR1,940 to INR4,625 (US$44 to US$104)
per HH by end-project. NTFP collection remained the single source of income prior to
the project. But with VSS participation in the forest management, income from NTFP
collection increased by 85 percent. By end-project, annual HH income from the forest
sources is contributed from NTFP (78 percent), harvest income (9 percent) and livelihood
enterprise income (13 percent). More importantly, NTFP and livelihood income are
generated during the lean farming seasons, thereby providing stable cash flow to the poor
HHs.




                                            91
Forest management interventions have generated 37.3 million person days of
employment for the VSS members. Forest management interventions have generated 37.3
million person days of employment for the VSS members and a total of INR2,469 million
(US$55 million) was disbursed as wage income to the project beneficiaries during the
project period. Forest management interventions have annually generated 5.3 million
person days of employment for the VSS members. Average annual wage income received
by the participating VSS members during the project period is INR352 million (US$7.9
million). Annual average wage income from forest activities is estimated at INR1,385
(US$31) per HH during the project implementation period. With this wage income, total
income for the project VSS HH is estimated at INR6,010 (US$135) per annum.
Incremental annual income of INR4,070 (US$91) per HH is expected to increase over
time with the realization of improved production potentials of timber, pulpwood, bamboo
and NTFPs established in forest land treated by the project VSSs. Based on the GOI
estimates, at 2009 real prices, annual PCI needed in rural AP is INR4,300 (US$97), to be
above poverty line. Hence, incremental per HH annual income in the project area has the
potential to lift at least one member above poverty line over time. For the project villages,
poverty alleviation impact is estimated at about 19 percent by the end-project with the
incidence of poverty falling from 57 to 38 percent


      Table A-20. Annual Incremental Income Impacts from Forest Treatment
                        Sources of Income            (INR/HH)      % share

                Total Forest Income                       4,070         100
                Forest based income                       2,685          66
                NTFP income                               1,650          41
                Enterprise income                          610           15
                Harvest income                             425           10
                Forest wage income                        1,385          34
                Poverty line income level                 4,300




                                             92
     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Table A-21. Task Team Members
Names                    Responsibility
Lending
Irshad A. Khan               Task Leader/Forest Planning and Management
Peter Jipp                   Forestry, M&E, FMIS
Madhavi M. Pillai            Community Development Non-Timber Products
Mohammad Hasan               Social Development
Harshadeep Nagaraja-Rao      Environment, GIS
Malcolm Jansen               Environment, Biodiversity
D.J. Baxi                    Procurement
Raj Soopramanien             Senior Counsel
Manvinder Mamak              Financial Management
Barry Deren                  Economics
Paul Ryan                    Forestry Treatment
Jacqueline Julian            Cost tables
M.S.S.Varadan                Institutions
S.N. Desai                   Agrostology and livestock
Robert Saum                  Financial Management
Terrence Abeyesekhara        Economics, Policy Analysis
Yoshiko Masuyama             Program Assistant
Deborah Ricks                Program Assistant
Juderica Dias-Khetarpaul     Team Assistant

Supervision
Rajeev Aggarawal                         Consultant ­ Civil Engineering, Quantity Surveyor
Papia Bhatachaarji                       Senior Financial Management Specialist
Atul Bhalchandra Deshpande               Senior Financial Management Specialist
Deepal Fernando                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Vishal Gandhi                            Financial Management
Sanchita Ghosh                           Consultant ­ Marketing
Reena Gupta                              Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist and Co-Task Team
                                         Leader
Mohammed Hasan                           Senior Social Development Specialist
Priti Jain                               Senior Procurement Specialist
Irshad Khan34                            Senior Forestry Specialist and Task Team Leader
Vibhuti Narang Khanna                   Team Assistant and Marketing Consultant
Santhanam Krishnan                      Consultant - Procurement

34
     TTL from project effectiveness to May 2003



                                                  93
Shivendra Kumar                         E T Consultant ­ Procurement
Grant Milne35                           Senior Natural Resources Management Specialist and
                                        Task Team Leader
Madhavi M. Pillai                       Consultant ­ Natural Resources Management Specialist
Sandra Meryl Ruckstuhl                  Consultant ­ Conflict Management
Paul A. Ryan                            Consultant ­ Forest Management
Parmesh Shah36                          Lead Rural Development Specialist and Task Team
                                        Leader
Pazhayannur K. Subramanian              Lead Financial Management Specialist
Sanjay Upadhyay                         Consultant
Ryma Pitts                              Program Assistant

                                                ICRR
Takayuki Hagiwara                       FAO Forestry Consultant and Team leader (ICRR)
Varsha Mehta                            Consultant ­ Social Development/Institutions (ICRR)
Paul Ryan                               Consultant ­ Forest Management
S. Selvarajan                           Economist (ICRR)

Table A-22. Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                25                      66.99
  FY02                                                68                     197.03
  FY03                                                 8                      16.72
  FY04                                                                         0.00
  FY05                                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                                         0.00
  FY08                                                                         0.00
Total:                                               101                     280.74

Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                         0.00
  FY02                                                                         0.00
  FY03                                                20                      75.23

35
     TTL from August 2006 to March 2010 (closure)

36
     TTL from May 2003 to August 2006



                                                    94
  FY04     22    70.94
  FY05     29   123.04
  FY06     39   184.87
  FY07     24   110.43
  FY08     13   116.14
  FY09     13     0.00
Total:    160   680.65




         95
                       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Beneficiary surveys were undertaken periodically as part of social and institutional
assessment. No final survey was carried out as part of the ICRR. Instead, stakeholder
workshops were implemented ­ see Annex 6.




                                         96
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Project-wide Stakeholders' Consultation (March 4, 2010)

A stakeholders' consultation workshop was organized at the APFA - Dulapalli, on the
outskirts of the AP state capital Hyderabad on March 4, 2010; the responsibility for
organizing the workshop was shared jointly by Vanasamakhya, APFD, CEFNARM and
CPF. Participants for the meeting were identified by Vanasamakhya, drawing on inputs
from the other organizers. A total of 120 individuals participated in the workshop,
including 23 females and 97 males. There were 36 officials from the APFD, 13
representatives from NGOs, 11 CEWs, 54 VSS members, including 13 Chairpersons/
Vice-chairpersons; and 6 facilitators from CPF; a total of 27 forest divisions were
represented in the workshop. Following opening remarks by the Director-APFA,
Director-CPF, and APFD officials, the workshop objectives and approach were explained
in detail by the Project Director, APCFMP. Participants' observations on the project and
its impact, including challenges and recommendations for future action are summarized
below.

Impact of APCFMP on Livelihoods

Project activities have benefited VSS communities by way of enhanced income and
empowerment in areas with rich forest resources. Where forests are being regenerated,
benefits from wages for forestry operations have been the mainstay of the project. In East
Godavari and Nellore districts, substantial gains have been made from harvest incomes.
Participants emphasized that VSS members had achieved financial stability through
forestry works and returns. In their presentations, they made the following observations:

   a) Members have received monetary benefits, and the poorest of poor, identified
      through micro-planning, have also been provided skills-based training to
      strengthen their livelihoods;
   b) VSS members have gained knowledge and skills on NTFP collection and value
      addition; availability of fodder has increased in some areas;
   c) Wage days have increased due to forestry works, and equal wages have led to
      enhanced household income, with a reduction in seasonal out-migration;
   d) The status of women in society has improved as they are financially independent
      and have greater role in community decision making;
   e) VSS members are contributing more to thrift funds;
   f) Many VSS members have received income from bamboo and timber harvest; in
      Isojipeta VSS, 16 families received INR63,700 (US$1,430) each from harvest of
      eucalyptus plantation;
   g) School drop outs have reduced, and there is an increased focus on health and
      education; and



                                           97
   h) There is increased social and political awareness.

Functioning of VSS and Their Capability Development through APCFMP

As a result of project activities and benefits there from, the VSS is now recognized as an
institution in its own right. Provided below is a summary of their presentations:

   a) For efficient forest management, VSS members conducted general body meetings
      once every six months; topics of priority are discussed and resolutions passed in
      these meeting;
   b) The VSS maintains the M-book and Cash book to show utilization of government
      funds by the VSS; accounts are transparent and accessible to all;
   c) Participation of women in all VSS works is high; and
   d) There is equal benefit sharing of returns from forest produce harvest in VSS areas.

Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development in Project Areas

Project impact in the area of livelihoods development through enterprises was presented
with examples to highlight the achievements:

   a) Training in value-addition and processing have brought about an increase in
      earnings from forest produce (e.g., income from adda leaf, incense sticks and
      honey);
   b) The project provided three months of training on embroidery to fuel wood
      collectors, who practice it now to earn supplementary income; this exceeds the
      income they obtained from fuel wood collection;
   c) CBET in Maredumilli and Mannanur, in particular, have provided sustainable
      income to many households in the area;
   d) NTFP plantations (Amla/ gooseberry) have started yielding good returns, e.g., 25
      ha of Amla plantation in Ammuvaripalli VSS in Kadappa Division yielded 7
      tonnes of fruit in 2009-10; and
   e) In Gogubaka VSS, training was provided in Eucalyptus cloning, which is being
      put to use in nurseries for development of Eucalyptus clones.

Forestry Works (including SMC Activities) and Forest Protection

Forests had developed because of VSS members' active role in their protection, and
effective collaboration between the APFD and VSS. As a result of the various SMC
works taken up in VSS areas, productivity of NTFPs, viz., Amla, soapnuts, adda leaf,
gum, beedi leaf, bamboo and medicinal plants, has increased manifold.




                                           98
Challenges and Recommendations for Future Action

Participants in the workshop also brought out many areas of challenge and constraints,
and made many useful suggestions for future action:

   a) Microplans were not always prepared in a participatory manner in the Gram
      Sabha; forestry and other developmental works should be carried out only if at
      least 60 percent of the VSS general body members are in agreement;
   b) For sustainability of benefits under CFM, further capacity building support for
      VSS would be required, along with regular conduct of review meetings,
      facilitative support for six-monthly and annual VSS general body meetings, and
      awareness camps among non-members; training should be imparted to all VSS
      members and in a simple manner that they can follow;
   c) On financial matters, there were irregularities in some VSS, which requires closer
      monitoring and support; cases of compounding fees are not being filed ­ this
      should be corrected;
   d) VSS records, except the muster rolls, are in custody of and maintained by the
      APFD; these should be entrusted to the respective VSS, with regular monitoring
      by APFD;
   e) There are delays by the APFD in issuance of permits for bamboo harvest, causing
      loss to VSS; the process needs to be simplified so that there are no delays in
      future; further, activities and trainings should be organized for bamboo harvesting
      and value addition;
   f) Market linkages support is crucial; enterprise development activities such as
      agarbathi stick making (Annapureddypalli VSS), adda leaves, bodha grass
      (Ammagaripalli VSS), etc. would realize their potential of income augmentation
      through such support;
   g) In NTFP-rich areas, NTFP procurement centers supported by APFD should be
      established for collectors to realize better returns; training on sustainable
      harvesting techniques should be provided;
   h) For prevention of forest fires, fire trenches should be created extensively every
      year;
   i) There are wide variations in the extent of plantation activities undertaken in
      different VSS and Forest Divisions, which has a bearing on VSS income and
      other benefits; effort should be made to bring more areas under plantation in VSS
      which have not benefited much from the project
   j) Lack of coordination between the Gram Panchayat and VSS is a constant
      challenge that requires policy and facilitative support; and
   k) Networks of VSS should be formed across the state, and VSS provided
      recognition as a legal institution.




                                          99
Stakeholders' Consultation on Resettlement Action Plan (March 11, 2010)

A second stakeholders' consultation was held at Vishakhapatnam on 11th March 2010, to
specifically focus on implementation of the RAP. Participants at this workshop included
Project Affected Families (PAFs) from the 5 forest divisions where RAP was
implemented, APFD personnel, NGO representatives, Training Coordinators, World
Bank (WB) staff and consultants, and members of the IAG. The program was organized
and facilitated by Srujana Welfare Association, Chodavaram, with financial support from
CEFNARM. Forty four PAFs participated in the workshop, including 4 women and 40
men. There was good representation from NGOs (25), APFD Forest Range Officers
(FROs), FSOs and FBOs (26), Training Coordinators (5) and senior APFD personnel,
including the Project Director/APCCF, CCF-Vishakhapatnam, and 5 DFOs.

Opening remarks were made by the former Co-Convener of APNGOs Forum, which had
been instrumental in raising R&R issues in the project, and revision of the state R&R
Policy in 2004. Observations made by the participants are summarized in the following
paragraphs.

Identification of PAFs

APFD staff and facilitating NGOs faced many challenges in correct and complete
identification of PAFs in the initial stages because of distrust between village
communities and APFD, and their lack of confidence in the implementation of RAP.
Through regular meetings, training, orientation and other confidence-building measures,
an atmosphere of mutual trust was established, which facilitated further activities.
Measures adopted for identification of PAFs included series of discussions in Gram
Sabha, one-on-one discussions with potential PAFs and village elders, confidential
enquiry, GPS survey and physical verification of podu land, preparation of podu affected
maps, and public disclosure of final list of PAFs.

Impact of Land Development Activities

Fallow, undulating and unproductive lands have been leveled, bunded and converted to
productive cultivable assets, and sometimes irrigated by channels, check dams, diesel
pump sets, bore wells, etc. This has changed the cropping pattern, enhanced productivity,
increased land value, and created permanent assets for PAFs. Extent of cultivable land
has increased as a result of leveling & terracing, and soil erosion arrested through
bunding. Vegetable cultivation has been taken up by some farmers, and planting of
horticulture crops on these lands is expected to result in long-term income on a sustained
basis. It is estimated that per acre income levels have risen by INR15,000 (US$337) ­
25,000 (US$562) annually.




                                           100
Impact of Livestock Support ­ Cow and Sheep Units, and Plough Bullocks

Land less PAFs, in general, preferred going for support in the form of cow and sheep
units; convergence with Pashu Kranti Patham scheme of GoAP enabled each PAF opting
for a cow to receive one more cow as matching support. In addition, insurance cover has
also been provided and PAFs with milch cattle are earning up to INR 4,500 net income
every month. PAFs with sheep units are expected to double the number of livestock
owned within 12-18 months. Insurance cover was provided at the time of purchase, but
provision of adequate health care is an issue because of lack of veterinary services in
remote forested areas. Farmers opting for plough bullocks are able to till and plough their
lands on time, and also provide the bullocks to other farmers in the village on rental basis.
Insurance has been provided. Some PAFs are also using the bullocks for transportation
services.

Other Support

PAFs residing in areas adjacent to reservoirs, rivers and canals opted for and received
boats and nets to support their livelihood activities. This reduced the cost they incurred
on having to procure the items on rent, and supplement their income to the extent of INR
1,500 per month. A popular group-based enterprise supported under RAP is
transportation vehicle. Groups of 4-5 PAFs obtained vehicles such as auto rickshaw
(motorized three-wheel passenger carrier) and jeep, for which they received training and
matching loan from banks where required. Apart from providing reliable transportation
services to villagers, the vehicles are also used for transportation of farm produce to
markets at reasonable rates. However, lack of sufficient knowledge among PAFs
regarding transport policies and high maintenance costs are beginning to gnaw into their
profit margins. Some of the other livelihood support interventions provided under RAP
include mini grocery stores, cycle repair shops, tent house material, rice and flour mills,
etc.

Role of NGOs in Implementation of RAP

NGOs were instrumental in bridging the chasm between the APFD and the affected
communities to make RAP implementation a reality. Convergence and collaboration with
other departments was also facilitated by NGOs:

   a) Revenue department ­ verification of land particulars provided by PAFs, and
      verification of land ownership;
   b) Mandal Parishad ­ Obtaining clearance certificates for applying under Pashu
      Kranti Pathakam;
   c) Banks ­ opening accounts and facilitating receipt of credit;
   d) Agriculture and horticulture departments ­ obtaining subsidies for agriculture
      implements and other inputs; and



                                            101
   e) Insurance companies ­ Purchase of policies for movable and immovable assets
      created under RAP, and facilitating application for claims, where required.
NGOs faced many challenges in playing facilitators, especially in the following areas:
correct identification of PAFs, grouping of PAFs for group-based enterprises,
identification of appropriate interventions for landless PAFs, revision of microplans,
accounting system for group-based activities, issues with bankers in opening bank
accounts for individuals/ groups of PAFs, keeping records and making payments for land
leveling works using machines, supporting PAFs for insurance claims, and village social-
political dynamics. In addition, there were issues with regular disbursement of NGO
facilitation charges. Based on lessons learned from RAP implementation, NGO
representatives suggested the following for future R&R activities/ other projects:

   a) To conduct social audit/ maintain display boards for expenditure on each activity;
   b) To enable better returns, facilitate market linkages and provide support through
      follow-up activities and trainings; and
   c) To proactively collaborate with other departments and traders/ processing units.

Remarks of IAG Members

Two IAG members were present during the day's deliberations, including the IAG
Chairperson. They expressed satisfaction at the implementation process and results
achieved under RAP.




                                          102
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

The Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project was launched on 1st
November 2002, and become effective since 26th November 2002. This is a unique
project in the Forestry sector in that it linked forest conservation to livelihoods of the
people depending on the forests and living in its vicinity and aims at ameliorating their
living conditions and economic lot. The PDO of `alleviation of rural poverty through
improved forest management with community participation' was achieved through three
interdependent components viz creation of enabling environment for community forest
management, forest management and community development. This being a follow on
project to the earlier implemented AP Forestry Project (1994 to 2000) drew its contents
heavily from the experiences of that Project.

During the first three years of implementation the project focused on development of
policy framework, creation of an enabling environment for community forest
management apart from improvement and consolidation of forests. After the mid-term
review, focus of the project was more on livelihood enhancement and poverty alleviation.
This was accomplished through suitable institutional reforms done in through a
participatory consultative process, and promoting forest based enterprises with
appropriate technology and developing robust and replicable models for benefit and cost
sharing arrangements among the target groups in the light of complex forestry
environment. Through improved forest management ad community participation,

The highlights of the achievement however are the initiatives taken for ensuring benefit
sharing among the members of the community, simplifying otherwise complex financial
procedure of fund flow to communities, developing replicable models for cost sharing
through reinvestment of benefits flowing from forest management, developing vibrant
pro poor institutions to undertake forest and forest enterprise management, addressing
issues of equity both from the perspective of gender and of vulnerable groups,
successfully implementing a challenging package of R&R through a transparent and
participatory approach, ushering in confidence among the participating communities that
they can manage their forestry and financial support without substantially depending on
forestry staff through adequate investments in developing human capital and para forestry
professionalism and above all ensuring a sense of ownership and belonging among the
VSSs by fulfilling what was promised. The project has proved possibilities of hitherto
unexplored areas of Participatory Forest Management providing ample space for
Communities to participate in core forest management decision making issues in
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

The borrower has reviewed the draft ICR. Some suggestions were made regarding the
constitution of the Independent Advisory Group that was constituted and functioned in
the context of R&R issues dealt in the Project. These have been incorporated. The
suggestions made with regard to legal issues also have been adequately incorporated.

The contents of the draft ICR are in tune with the achievements and accomplishments of
the Project and there are no additional comments from the borrower.



                                           103
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The project did not involve other co-financiers or major partners.




                                           104
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    APFD (2009) Revised Forest Schedule of Rates 2009 to 2010
2.    APFD (2010) Implementation Completion Report, March 2010.
3.    APFD (2010) Andhra Pradesh Forest Inventory Report 2010
4.    APFD (2010) Various VSS Profile Data provided during ICRR Field Visits
5.    CENPAP (2003) Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for APCFMP
6.    CENPAP (2008) Manual for Undertaking Social Audit of VSS
7.    CENPAP (2010) Impact on Household Income of VSS Members under APCFMP.
8.    CENPAP (2010) Social Audit of VSS under APCFMP.
9.    CMSR (2010) Study of the Impact of Training and Capacity Building Programs
      under APCFMP
10.   CMSR (2010) Impact Assessment of Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan
      under APCFMP
11.   CPF (2008) Study Report on "Harvesting and Marketing of Bamboo" in
      Manchiryala, Kakinada, Narsipatnam and Visakhapatnam Forest Divisions of
      Andhra Pradesh.
12.   CPF (2008) Assessment of the Performance of VSSs in CPF Project Area
13.   CPF (2010) A Brief Summary of the Participatory Assessment Study on "Forest
      Returns and Benefits Sharing Mechanisms to the VSS Members" in Andhra
      Pradesh
14.   DRS (2006) Impact Assessment of APCFMP for Mid Term Review
15.   DRS (2010) Assessment of Environmental Impacts and Forest Resource
      Improvement through APCFMP
16.   DRS (2010) Assessment of Socio Economic Impacts of APCFMP.
17.   D. Kesava Rao (2007) Making a Difference ­ Forest Projects Providing
      Sustainability to Communities of Andhra Pradesh
18.   FAO (2005) Exploring Options for Joint Forest Management in India.
19.   FAO/World Bank, M&E Stocktaking draft report on APCFMP
20.   Forest Survey of India (2009) State of Forest Report 2009
21.   GoAP (2002) Entitlement framework for mitigating any adverse impact due to the
      project; Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy for the Project Affected persons,
      Issued vide G.O.Ms.No.10 EFS&T (For III) Dept. dated: 05-02-2002
22.   GoAP (2002) Andhra Pradesh Forest Department Code ­ Delegation of enhanced
      financial powers at various levels ­ Orders ­ Issued, vide G.O.Ms.No.2 EFS&T
      (For III) Dept. dated: 07-01-2004




                                          105
23.   GoAP (2004) Comprehensive Orders on Community Forest Management, Issued
      vide G.O. Ms.No.13 EFS&T (For III) Dept. dated: 12-02-2002 as amended vide
      G.O.Ms No.4 EFS&T (For III) Dept. dated: 12-01-2004
24.   GoAP (2004) APFD ­ Execution of works through VSS ­ Observing transparency -
      Issuing of certain guidelines ­ Regarding, Circular issued from Office of the PCCF
      Ref.No.12060/2004/PMU-III/1, dated 04-08-2004
25.   GoAP (2004) Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy (RAP) Issued vide G.O. Ms
      No. 68, EFS & T (For III) Dept., Dated: 25-05-2004
26.   GoAP (2006) A.P Community Forest Management Project Guidelines for
      Preparations of Livelihood Development Plan (A part of Tribal Development
      Strategy and Action Plan)
27.   GoAP (2006) Beedi Leaves Trace in Andhra Pradesh ­ Distribution of net revenue
      generated from Beedi leaf scheme to the Beedi leaf collectors ­ Orders, Issued vide
      G.O. Ms No. 43, EFS & T (For III) Dept., Dated: 10-04-2006
28.   IAG (2006) Visit of Independent Advisory Group (IAG) to the RAP Areas in the
      Districts of Vijayanagaram and Visakhapatnam on 20th and 21st of March 2006
29.   Samaj Vikas Development Support Organization (2008) A Study on the Socio-
      Economic Status of Podu Land Cultivators in VSS Areas in Andhra Pradesh
30.   The World Bank (2000) Implementation Completion Report on ANDHRA
      PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT (Cr. No 25730).
31.   The World Bank (2002) Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the
      Amount of SDR 85.5 Million (US$ 108 Million Equivalent) to INDIA for the
      Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project.
32.   The World Bank (2002) Environmental Management Plan
33.   The World Bank (2002) Pest management Plan
34.   The World Bank (2002) Social Assessment
35.   The World Bank (2002) Tribal Development Strategy and Action Plan (Indigenous
      Peoples Plan)
36.   The World Bank (2004) RP87 AP Community Forest Management Project
      Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
37.   The World Bank (2006) Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire.
38.   The World Bank (2002) Development Credit Agreement
39.   The World Bank, Supervision Mission Aide Memoire # 1- 15 Archived
40.   The World Bank, Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) # 1-15
      Archived




                                          106
              Borrower's ICR Report


Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project




                   June 18, 2010
                                                   Table of Contents


1.    Overview of Project Achievements .................................................................................. 3
2.    Achievements by Components: ........................................................................................ 4
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 22
4.    Procurement of Goods, Works and Services .................................................................. 28
5.    Financial Management and Audit: .................................................................................. 41
6.    Initiatives......................................................................................................................... 47
7.    Compliance to operational Directives ............................................................................. 53
8.    Strategies for Sustainability and Follow up actions ........................................................ 63
9.    Project Impacts................................................................................................................ 70
10.   Annexes......................................................................................................................... 101




                                                                    2
                Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project
                            Implementation Completion Report



1. Overview of Project Achievements

       The    Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project was launched on 1st
November 2002, and become effective since 26th November 2002. This is a unique Project in
the Forestry sector in that it seeks to link forest conservation to livelihoods of the people
depending on the forests and living in its vicinity and aims at ameliorating their living
conditions and economic lot. The Project Development Objective of ,,alleviation of rural
poverty through improved forest management with community participation was initially
sought to be achieved through three interdependent components viz creation of enabling
environment for community forest management, forest management and community
development. This being a follow on Project to the earlier implemented AP Forestry Project
(1994 to 2000) drew its contents heavily from the experiences of that Project.


       During the first three years of implementation the focused areas are mostly on
improvement and consolidation of forests, artificial regeneration of SRWP including
medicinal species in the area under the management of the VSSs and on building their
capacity to ensure the same. After the mid term review during 2006, focus of the Project was
more on livelihood enhancement and poverty alleviation. This was accomplished through
suitable institutional reforms done in through a participatory consultative process, and
promoting forest based enterprises with appropriate technology and developing robust and
replicable models for benefit and cost sharing arrangements among the target groups in the
light of complex forestry environment. Through improved forest management ad community
participation, the benefits accrued to the VSSs are:
               The VSSs have earned a direct benefit of Rs.1864.17 Million through harvest,
               utilization and sale of timber and non-timber forest products etc.
               The Project activities have generated 37.322 Million person days of
               employment.
               An area of 3,45,259 ha of forests vested with VSSs have been improved. This
               includes an extent of 57,712 ha of productive plantations raised through
               Community participation.


                                               3
               The Project has developed replicable models of cost sharing models through
               reinvestment of part of revenue realised from forest management. This is
               being demonstrated in 111 VSSs.
               There has been an impressive 53% % improvement in household incomes
               among the VSS members (from Rs. 20,237 per household in 2005 to Rs.
               30,999 during 2009). Proportion of income from forest usufructs has increased
               by 3% paving way for symbiotic dependence of VSS members on forests and
               sustainable forest management.
               VSSs have recorded a growth of 29.48% in asset value of their forests with
               increase in growing stock from 208.67 Cum in 2002 to 270.18 cum in 2006.
               This was possible primarily due to improvement in quality of forest cover by
               migration of open and scrub forests as dense forests.
               The Project, could achieve 109% of physical targets fixed in the Project
               Appraisal Document while utilising 94 % of the financial allocation.


       From all the above, it can be inferred that the Project has made sincere attempts and
achieved the Project Development Objective of poverty reduction through forest management
and community participation by creating an enabling environment for Community Forest
Management through proactive policy reforms in making the process of Community Forest
Management a reality. Simplifying complex procedures in financial management and forest
management have been daunting challenges well accomplished. The Project has proved
possibilities of hitherto unexplored areas of Participatory Forest Management providing
ample space for Communities to participate in core forest management decision making
issues in planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

Details of the Project achievements, highlights and impacts are given in the ensuing chapters.


2. Achievements by Components:

Livelihood enhancement: This component was reconstituted from the earlier (before Mid
Term Review) component of Community development. This component aims at bringing
about holistic development of VSS communities focusing particularly on the vulnerable
groups, social safeguards, bridging critical gaps in the endeavour of achievement of the
project objective of poverty reduction through income generation activities to bring in an


                                              4
element of sustainability in the project implementation. Following are the activities
contemplated:

    Supporting development of community infrastructure (on a limited scale) for VSS
       groups.
    Supporting the processing and marketing of wood and non-wood forest products
       (NTFPs) through APFD and NGO extension and training.
    Supporting poor, landless, women and other vulnerable groups especially the tribals
       by improving livelihood opportunities based on forest and non-forest activities
       through income generation activities and micro-enterprises.
    Encouraging and facilitating Participatory planning through micro-planning exercise
       for development of holistic plans,
    Evolve and implement suitable mitigation measures to ward off adverse impacts if
       any on any person due to Project implementation.



       Activities in the areas of community infrastructure, income generation, micro-
enterprise and micro business, market support were taken up in accordance with the
prioritised felt needs as documented and articulated in the microplans that were modified
subsequently as Livelihood Plans and also in the VSS specific Resettlement Action Plans.

About 42% of the membership of the VSSs supported under this Project is of Scheduled
Tribes. Project design includes investments in Tribal Development Plan and also for
development of Non Tribal VSS Villages. However, in the initial Project design, a cap on
investment was fixed at Rs. 100,000 per VSS in respect of VSS with significant Tribal
population (more than 10%), the limit for other VSSs is Rs. 50,000 per VSS and investment
was required to be made duly taking care not to repeat investments in VSSs that have already
received such benefit during implementation of APFP. However after the Mid Term Review
with revised focus on livelihood enhancement, the strategy was modified and cluster
approach with institution development coupled with skill enhancement and market support
was followed for implementation of all livelihood enhancement activities on mode of
enterprises. This also led to a new approach of linking forest conservation to enhancement of
livelihoods.

       As a part of this revised strategy, microplans in certain VSSs were revised as
livelihood enhancement plans. This revision was done after a household survey in which

                                             5
   income and expenditure profile of families, nature and extent of their dependence of members
   of VSSs on forests and extent of contribution of forests to their livelihoods were documented.
   2283Livelihood Enhancement Plans were prepared duly revising the Microplans.

      Further in order to maximise impacts from these investments, activities that ensure
   sustainable management of natural resources available and vested with the VSSs were
   planned and their value additions by the Common Enterprise Groups.               Following is a
   statement indicating activity wise participation of VSS members in some key income
   generation activities.

                                               Developmental activities
                                               in VSSs with predominat      Developmental activities
                                               tribal membership (more          in other VSSs
Sl. No.                 Activity                       than 30%)

                                                No. of        No. of         No. of         No. of
                                                VSS          Members         VSS           Members

  1       Agarbathi Stick Making                 134           5251            23           1201

  3       Apiculture                             132           1342            97            932

  4       Pisiculture                             52           1515            9             223

  5       Vermicompost                           755           5558           428           6495

  6       Bamboo Value addition                   2             18             4             81

  7       Leaf Plate making                      731           19502           69            976

  8       Eco tourism                             7             114            3             33



   So far 284,379 VSS members have derived benefits from various income generation
   activities. Details are given in the annexure. Among various enterprises taken up the
   following enterprises have done exceedingly well:

   Support for value addition and marketing of bamboos: Bamboo occurs in abundance in
   Andhra Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh accounts for about 7.4% of Indias Bamboo resources.
   More than 1000 VSSs have abundant resources of Bamboo and their economy can scale up
   significantly with Bamboo related intervention. Bamboo is also known as poor mans timber.
   Converting bamboo into agarabatti sticks, bamboo handicrafts and bamboo matboards were
   tried. Of all, converting bamboo into raw agarabatti sticks has stabilised and is doing well in
   parts of Adilabad District. As against a paltry Rs. 5 per Bamboo the VSSs are now able to


                                                 6
generate Rs. 25 per Bamboo most of it being in the form of wage employment to VSS
members in converting Bamboo into Agarabatti sticks. So far nearly 700 tonnes of Agarabatti
sticks were supplied by VSSs and their cluster federations. Encouraged by the success of the
activity, clusters of Bellampalli Division have decided to organise themselves as Producer
Company in Tiriyani.

Leaf plate making with Adda leaves: Traditionally the tribals of Visakhapatnam,
Vizianagaram, East Godavari and Bhadrachalam areas have been collecting Adda leaf (leaves
of Bauhinia vahlii) and selling to GCC and middlemen in Shandies. Conversion of the leaves
so sold into leaf plates has been in the domain of plainsmen. Essentially the tribals though are
primary collectors of this resource have not had the benefit of value addition and market
intervention. Infact the plainsmen have been benefited most by these activities. Thus the
forest dependant tribals have remained poor and their drudgery of travelling long distances on
foot many a times for days together have added to their misery. A simple intervention of
training the tribal women in stitching leaves into leaf plates has been taken up through
participation of 40 NGOs in 322 villages covering 7427 families in Visakhapatnam and
Vizianagaram districts. Marketing tie up was made with Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanam,
Simhachalam and Annavaram Temple apart from local markets.

Community based Eco-tourism: This is a new activity included in the Project after the Mid
Term Review. Community Based Eco-tourism involves participation of local communities
constituted as VSSs and Eco Development Committees (EDCs) in management of tourism
aspects of protected areas and areas that have rich biodiversity and that are ecologically
sensitive but have tremendous tourism and educational importance. Economic benefits that
accrue from Eco-tourism will be shared among the VSS/EDC members. The economic
benefits are expected to bring about social upliftment of the forest dwellers and thereby
reduce the poverty in the rural areas. Activities taken up under eco-tourism include:

       Planning for community based eco-tourism.
       Capacity building of community, training in visitor management, catering etc.
       Designing and establishing eco friendly infrastructure through community
       participation.
       Basically, this programme is being carried out as a poverty alleviation measure in the
villages adjoining protected areas and forests, while aiming at biodiversity and forest



                                               7
conservation in the long run, though peoples participation. The following is a brief account
of some of the sites that have sparkled:

Talakona: The eco-developmental works are being taken up actively through Nerabailu YC
VSS. On an average 20,000 Nos. visitors visit Talakona every month and the tourists are
from Andhra Pradesh, Tamilnadu & Karnataka. Infrastructure provided here include Log
Huts (6 Nos), Dormitories (2 Nos), Kitchen and Nature friendly dining room, Canopy walk
amids the sylvan groove of Shorea talure endemic to the area, treck path to the nearby
waterfall, trecking and safari drive. The facility is managed by the local Yanadi tribes is
running on sustainable grounds. The amount spent of infrastructure is Rs.57.227 lakh. So far
the facility has earned a gross revenue of Rs. 63.519 lakhs with an expenditure of Rs. 37.77
lakh.

Mamandur: Visitors from Andhra Pradesh and neighboring Tamilnadu visit the area and the
spot is located 30 Kms. away from the Tirupathi on Tirupathi ­ Kadapa highway. A
dormitory that can accommodate around 30 people, improvement of Forest Rest House &
Kitchen, construction of (6) Cottages, a museum, tracking facility to the nearby forests and
water bodies are in place and in use. The facility is managed by local members of EDCs
belonging to Mamandur. Being adjacent to a busy highway, this site is growing in popularity.

Kambalakonda Wildlife Sanctuary, Visakhapatnam District: The Sambhuvanipalem
VSS members have taken up the CBET project in Kambalakonda area. Already the area has
been developed by fencing 80 Ha., establishing watch towers & view points, sit-outs for
public, etc. There is a good potential for visitors coming to the spot as it is hardly 10 Kms.
from Visakhapatnam city.      Tent huts have been erected at three locations identified in
consultation with Tourism Department and Youth hostels. Cafeteria with kitchen and Store
and two trails of 3 Kms and 5 Kms each are provided in addition to a view tower that
overlooks the landscapes and spots the nearby Bay of Bengal, sign boards and visitors
amenities like common toilets, visitor sheds & machans are constructed. Angling and Boating
are the seasonal attractions in the reservoirs at the heart of this facility. An amount of
Rs.70.63 lakh has been incurred as expenditure towards infrastructure while the revenue
earnings are of ten order of Rs. 65.25 lakh with an expenditure of Rs.57.62 lakh.

Maredumilli, East Godavari district: Maredumilli Community Based Eco-tourism is being
implemented by Somireddy palem VSS of Rampa Chodavaram Range (Kakinada Division).
On pilot basis during the month of Kartika Masam season of 2005 the project commenced.

                                              8
Nearly 6000 members visit the area annually. An amount of Rs. 150.46 lakh has been spent
on developing infrastructure such as Construction of cottages, providing tent accommodation
(at Jungle star on the banks of the River Pamaleru), trecking and visit to Biodiversity
hotspots to appreciate nature conservation needs apart from education etc. Maredumilli is one
of the success stories since it has done exceedingly well within a short time. The facility has
earned a gross revenue of Rs. 42.12 lakh with an expenditure of Rs. 30.83 lakh so far.

Tatipudi Reservoir: The community based Eco-tourism project at Thatipudi on the bank of
Gosthani River with the involvement of members of 1) Nakkalavalasa, 2) Rallagaruvu 3)
Panasalapadu, (4)Addatheega & (5) Diguvakondaparti VSS is being taken up. A Managing
Community was constituted with 20 members with the participation of VSS members of
Panasalapadu, Addatheega, Rallagaruvu, Nakkalavalasa & Diguvakondaparti VSS. Two
suites with reception hall and cafeteria and two toilets were constructed in the down hillside.
Two suites were constructed and both the places are connected with pathways. Facilities
such as angling and trecking in natural forests are the special attractions.
Embroidery as a Livelihood Alternative for Lambada Tribal Women in VSSs of
Telengana Region of Andhra Pradesh: An extensive survey conducted through the Center
for Peoples Forestry (CPF) in the year 2004 across 680 Vana Samrakshana Samithis (VSS)
representing all three Regions of Andhra Pradesh revealed that the practice of collection and
sale of fuel wood, generically termed as ,,head-loading, exists in many parts of the State and
is particularly prevalent among resource poor forest dependent communities. One of the
study findings is that large populations of Lambada women, who are members of VSS, earn
their livelihood by doing different kinds of wage works. Apart from these sources of
livelihood "fuel wood selling" is an important source of income to meet their supplementary
(soaps, cosmetics etc.) needs. Fuel wood sale is done throughout the year and the activity
increases during Summer when no other work is available.

       CPF engaged the Lambada women in Medak in July 2005 with an idea of engaging
them in embroidery design works and halting or, at least, reducing collection of fuel wood
from forest. Subsequently, CPF demonstrated the whole process of implementation to the
Forest Department (FD). Impressed by CPFs work, FD extended support to initiate project
activities in Medak and five other clusters: Kamareddy, Achampet (two clusters),
Mehaboobabad and Amangal) under the APCFM project. CPF organised skill-up gradation
trainings and preparation of catalogue in all the clusters. CPF also took lead in developing
and maintaining market linkages for obtaining orders. Partner NGOs of CPF made efforts in

                                                9
terms of forming CEGs, managing Common Facility Centre (CFC) and orders distribution
among artisans and delivering finished products in market.

       Other than financial support, FD has given other supports like allocating space for
CFC in Medak and Achampet, as well as moral support by DFOs and other field officials in
these cluster regions.

Forest Management: The main thrust of APCFM Project is aimed at the various activities
proposed under this component as this component accounts for lion share of the investment
under the project. The various activities carried out under this component are:

   -   Improvement of natural forests vested with VSSs through rejuvenation of the
       existing root stock and artificial regeneration along with sound silvicultural
       interventions of selective thinning and stand management practices coupled with
       intensive soil and moisture conservation works.
   -   These activities have improved the productivity of the existing forests giving
       sustained yield of forest produce to the community under the management of VSSs.
   -   The forests with reasonably good root stock of valuable and important species have
       been rejuvenated and improved, yielding sustained incomes to the community under
       VSSs. Also degraded bamboo forests have been improved by carrying out
       decongestion and soil working around the clumps.
   -   Forests with scrub growth without any economically important species have been
       replaced by high yielding short rotation timber yielding, NTFP and medicinal plant
       species through artificial regeneration.
   -   Social forestry is executed through the development of forest resources out side the
       reserve forests through extension and support for the farm and community forestry.
       Also considerable extents of shelter belt plantations were raised under Tsunami
       mitigation under the project as social forestry activity.
   -   Applied research was concentrated on the genetic improvement of selected species
       and standardization of their propagation techniques. Research also improved the
       silvicultural prescriptions for the management of degraded forests from time to time.
   -   Important development of mechanisms and tools for forestry inventory and impact
       assessment of various inventions under the project.
   -   Development of comprehensive Forest Management Information system is a reality
       The gist of the achievement under these components are given below:

                                               10
 Forest Treatment: Under the project, the target for improvement of forests under the VSSs
 management in 315800 ha. This target includes improvement of 150,000 ha teak forests
 100,000 ha non-teak forests, 50,000 ha of degraded bamboo forests, 5000 ha of red sanders
 forests and conversion of 10,800 ha scrub forests by artificial regeneration with short
 rotation, woody, NTFP and medicinal plant yielding species. As against these targets, an area
 of 3,45,259 ha of natural forests were treated. The details of area treated so far under
 different categories since the inception of the project are given below:

Sl.                                                                                     Percentage of
             Category            Unit        Project Target          Achievement
No.                                                                                     Achievement

1.      Rejuvenation  of
        degraded teak &                                                                    95.92%
                                 Ha               255000                244603
        non teak Misc
        forest

2.      Bamboo         Forests
        including       under    Ha               50,000                    42944          85.89%
        planting

3.      Artificial
                                 Ha               10,800                    57712           534%
        regeneration

                 Total                            315800                345259              109%



     Under the project, treatment of forests was the main activity and it has generated lot of
 wage and other employment opportunities of the community under the VSSs management
 especially during lean agricultural working season.

 Rejuvenation of degraded forests: The Project targeted rejuvenation of 150,000 ha of
 degraded Teak Forests, 100,000 ha of degraded non teak misc. Forests and 5000 ha of Red
 sanders forests for rejuvenation. As against this, an area of 244,603 ha (95.92% of the target)
 of forests have been rejuvenated. Treatment under this model consisted of shrub cutting as
 advance operation, cutting back and coppicing viable root stock. And high stumps that have
 resulted due to hacking and illicit cutting in the past, have been cut and coppicing the
 resulting stumps and singling the multiple shoots that emanate from the coppiced stump.
 These operations have been coupled with soil and moisture conservation works like
 continuous contour trenches, mini percolation tanks, gully plugging structures and staggered
 trenches.


                                                11
           Also works like fire control measures and protection from grazing, trenches to
conserve moisture around economically important and naturally occurring NTFP species
plants in the treated area were carried out in good measure. As teak forests are deciduous
forests, these forests become highly susceptible for fire damage and due to frequent fire
damage, the forests become degraded making the top soil compact and depleted.

           To mitigate this, however, SMC works were carried out on total watershed concept to
consolidate the gains made from the treatment of forests. Fire control works were taken up in
the form of shallow contour trenches of 0.5 M depth, 1.5 M top width and 1m bottom width
of convenient length. These trenches are performing the dual purposes of soil and moisture
conservation structures during rainy season and as fire control measure during the dry
summer season. Leaf litter all along these contour trenches are being swept into these
trenches and control burning is being done during summer to prevent fire accidents to the
forests.

           Non ­ Teak miscellaneous forests including red sanders forests of the state are
distributed in coastal Andhra and Ralayaseema regions viz Srikakulam, Vizianagaram,
Vishakapatnam and East Godavari districts of coastal Andhra and Kadapa, Kurnool and
Chittoor of Rayalaseema. The non ­ teak miscellaneous forests distributed in coastal Andhra
are forming a transition between sal forests of north India and the Central India teak tract.
Without any major species dominating the scene, these forests are rich in bio ­ diversity and
are home to many tribal communities.

           These forests were under various degrees of degradation due to intense biotic pressure
and inadequate management practices, they were subjected to in the past. Many of these
forests were subjected to coppice cutting and gap planting irrespective of coppicing ability of
the individual species. The net result was the aggressive coppicers dominated and shy
coppicers remained suppressed and subsequently perished. The areas with Clistanthus
collinus, Lagerstroemia parviflora, Anogeissus latifolia, Terminalia alata, Acacia sundra
etc., responded to coppicing.

           Although these developed in to pole crop of smaller diameter and is being used by the
community for their domestic use. There is noticeable absence of species like Dalbergia
latifolia, Pterocarpus marsupium, Adina cordifolia, Mitragyna parvifolia in these mixed
forests which make economic returns poor from these forests. The forest cover has increased
in terms of enhanced canopy but it has not given productive economic returns. However, the

                                                 12
treatment helped in the growth of NWFP species such as Terminalia chebula, T. belerica,
Phyllanthus emblica, Bauhinia vahlii and some other useful medicinal plant species
responding quite well in terms of regeneration and the protection offered by the community.
The preferential cultural treatments to the wild      NWFP species like clearing of other
miscellaneous growth around these plants, soil working and semi-lunar trenches around the
plants and going in for in-situ grafting have helped in the growth of Annona squomosa,
Artocarpus heterophyllus, Phyllanthus emblica and thus benefiting the VSS community
immensely.

       Non-teak forests of Rayalaseema are predominated by abundant occurrence of
pterocarpus santalinus (Red sanders). As the Red sanders forest, are also copiously infested
with Boda grass (Chloroxylon coloratus) and it is traditionally used as thatching material by
the community. But during the summer it was acting as fire hazard. Under the project, a new
utility has been found for this Boda grass as it yields oil, which was extracted by the VSS
people by setting up of units in Rayalaseema region, benefiting the community economically.

       Extensive soil and moisture conversation measure on total saturation of watershed
area concept were taken up along with fire control measures in these forests.

       Significant and novel intervention was of preferential treatment to promising NTFP
and Timber yielding species. In normal forestry practices there was no space to pay attention
to such scattered trees as forestry was oriented to either raising plantations or rejuvenating
rootstock of timber species. It is probably for the first time that some attention was paid to
scattered NTFP trees that were struggling to survive and grow. The intervention was also
quite simple in that a semi lunar trench was provided near such plants about a meter away
with a cross section of 30cm x 30 cm. The moisture impounded in such trenches was of
tremendous advantage to these plants and results were immediate and perceptible. Another
novel intervention taken in Kadapa district was bud grafting natural Zizyphus trees with high
yielding counterparts. Infact more than 19,000 ha (of effective area) was treated with such
intervention and yields of these NTFP trees have nearly doubled.

Rejuvenation of Bamboo forests: Bamboo occurs abundantly in some parts of state forests.
About 1000 VSSs supported under this project have good bamboo resources. Atleast in half
these VSS, there is gregarious occurrence of bamboo and in the balance sporadic. The
Dendrocalamus strictus is the species that is occurring in 90%. Under the rejuvenation of
degraded bamboo forests, the bamboo forest has been treated with cultural operations like

                                              13
clump mounding to increase the annual recruitment of culms, digging of trenches around
clump for moisture conservation.

           This was also supplemented by gap planting, which did not give encouraging result.
In later stages, an aggressive approach of under planting of bamboo in the miscellaneous
forests, of less than 0.4 density class was followed to augment the bamboo resource in the
forests. Studies by the research wing reveal that rhizomes planted in teak plantation areas and
in the areas with more than 0.4 was not giving required growth and the annual recruitment of
culms is very poor although rhizomes are surviving the menace from cattle population in all
such plantations is perceptible, wherever, peripheral fencing or individual plant fencing has
not been provided by the community.

           The field operations in bamboo forests include decongestion, saucer weeding,
mounding to young clumps, staggered trenches near the clumps to conserve moisture, fire
control measures and SMC works like CCTs, gully control structures, Mini percolation tanks
etc. Selective felling of mature bamboo culms duly retaining 6 to 8 culms per clump to
support the clump is a silvicultural operation that ensured the health of the clump and also
fetched revenue to the VSSs as bamboo so removed can be sold as green bamboo or as value
added products like Baskets, Mats and Agarbathi stricks. The recent enterprise development
in the form of Agarbathi sticks has picked up in some of the bamboo rich VSSs earning them
good incomes to the VSSs. As against the project target of treating 50,000 ha of Bamboo
forests, an area of 42944 ha has been treated. This includes treatment of 20,226 ha under
planting.

           Under planting is a new initiative taken under the current project. Where it is done in
the forests where it is not occurring naturally. Two years old rhizomes were planted in the
existing gaps in the natural forests of VSSs, where these gaps were caused due to
silvicultural thinnings and tending operations and due to natural causes. This technique has
helped in the upgrading of the quality of the forests, otherwise, which cannot ensure adequate
returns as they are primarily timber species bearing forests. Bamboo would ensure
intermittent returns and this contribute to the success of forest management by VSSs, duly
ensuring regular flow of returns.

Artificial regeneration: As against a project target of 10,800 ha of artificial regeneration in
scrub forests with SRWP, NTFP and medicinal plant species, an area of 57712 ha has been
treated.

                                                 14
       A thrust area of plantation activity has been the plantation of high yielding NWFP
clones like Phyllanthus emblica, Syzygium cumini, Annona squomosa Tamarindus indica etc.,
in small patches in large No. of VSSs under semi-mechanical method. As already stated an
area of 57712 ha has been planted with seedlings of SRWP, NTFP and medicinal plant
species. Species planted are Pongamic pinnata, Emblica officianalis, Eucalyptus clones,
Tamarindus indica, Annona squomosa, Sapindus emarginatus, Dendrocalamus strictus,
Gymnema sylvestris, Decalyptus hamiltanii, Asparagus racemosa, Palmrosa etc.

       As the converted areas earlier supported only scrub forests, but have fertile soil to
ensure good amount of success, planting is preceded by good and intensive land preparation.
This included the removal of all un wanted growth, ploughing the soil and planting healthy
and robust seedlings in pits of 45 cm at escapement of 5m x 5m for Pongamia pinnata,
Emblica officianalis, Tamarindus indica, Annona squomosa, Sapindus emarginatus and
Dendrocalamus strictus 10m x 10m for Artocarpus integrifolia, 3m x 1.5m for Encalyptus
clones and 2.5m x 2.5m for Tectona grandis. Planting of medicinal herbs like Gymnema
sylvestris, Decalyptus homiltonii, Asparapus racemosa was done as intercrop in the
plantation of NTFP species and in natural forests as under-crop. Over all this activity,
Bamboo Encalyptus, pongamia and other NTFP species were planted with semi-mechanical
techniques.

       A very good and successful attempt was made to revive the mangrove forests under
the project by taking up artificial regeneration of mangrove plantation in Krishna, East
Godavari Districts.

Social Forestry: This activity was implemented by planning and extension wing of the
Andhra Pradesh Forests Department. Under the component, forest resources were developed
outside the reserve forest, mostly, shelter belt plantations in Government lands along the
coast under the Tsunami mitigation component of the project and plantation in the
community lands such as tank fore share areas and Avenues for avenue plantations. Detailed
note on the achievements of the social forestry in this regard in annexed.

Applied Research: Activities pertaining to forestry research have been implemented by the
R&D Circle of the Forest Department. The salient features of the activities and sub- activities
of the R&D wing implemented under the project are:

   -   Consolidation and expansion of the benefits achieved under APFP.

                                              15
   -   Integration of research activities under the project with the prioritized research
       themes of the department and provide continuity and flexibility to the research
       projects initiated under APFP.
   -   Standardizing package of practices supported by good extension strategy to accelerate
       production and improve yields by producing superior planting stock.
   -   Transfer of technology from the lab to the land.
Forest Inventory: This activity has been contemplated for implementation during the third
year of the project. However, as part of micro planning base line survey of forest resources
has been done through field inventory as per the methodology prescribed in the PIP. Data
collected in this exercise has been made use of along with regular inventory by a cell with
competent officers with a clear mandate. A detailed note on this exercise is given in the
annexure.

Institution strengthening

In the original Project design Creation of Enabling Environment for Community
Development was an important component. This component included activities such as
Policy and institution development and awareness and capacity building as key activities
apart from Monitoring and Evaluation strategies.           Developing a conducive policy
environment was the prime concern and in that regard after a series of consultations, a
number of policy initiatives on framework of Community Forest Management in the state,
benefit sharing arrangements, decentralized financial management and policy on participation
and addressing issues of indigenous people and involuntary resettlement were evolved. Till
the Mid Term Review, apart from policy development major activities under this component
revolved around awareness building and capacity building and developing an M&E frame
work. In the light of this and keeping the needs of that phase of the Project, strategy for
training and outreach were evolved as below:

   1. All the training programmes to be conducted were broadly categorized into training in
       forest management, training in financial management, training in social development
       and training in business management and training in information technology
   2. Training programmes were organized at A P Forest Academy, Dullapalli, Regional
       Research Centres Hyderabad, Tirupathi, Warangal and Rajahmundry, designated
       training centres in each forest division and in each VSS.



                                               16
3. Training in forest management: Trainings were organized for all the VSS members
   in specific field operations for forest management to be undertaken to implement the
   activities included in the approved microplans.
4. The A P Forest Academy Dullapalli trained trainers identified by the Regional
   Research Cum Training centres, Hyderabad, Warangal, Tirupathi and Rajahmundry
   on the field operations to be undertaken in the months of July and August this year.
5. The State Silviculturists Hyderabad, Tirupathi and Rajahmundry and Forest Geneticist
   Warangal shall conducted two day training programmes for the respective nominees
   of the forest department (of the rank of ABO/FBO/FSO who have been specifically
   nominated by the respective FRO for coordinating with the respective VSSs),
   nominees of NGOs associated with the VSSs and all the Chairpersons and one or two
   active members. This training programme shall be conducted only for the VSSs
   where microplans have been approved and where implementation of works is to
   commence. The subject matter of this training will focus on the field operations to be
   undertaken in the months of July and August. These training programmes should be
   organized in consultation with the respective territorial divisional forest officer and
   the FROs either at the Regional Research cum Training Centre or at headquarters of
   respective division or range or in one of the VSSs. This training programme shall
   include a half-day visit to a VSS where works are to commence.
6. The Chairpersons and other VSS members, the NGO and FD nominees so trained
   shall the conduct a one day training programme for all the members of the VSSs in
   the VSS village itself on all the field operations to be taken up during July and August
   this year.
7. Separate set of such training programmes will be organized during August on the field
   operations to be undertaken during September to December.
8. Training in financial management: A separate financial management manual
   prepared for use by the VSS was used as training material. This specifies the book
   keeping activities, registers etc. to be maintained in each VSS. Training was imparted
   to two to three selected literate members in each VSS on financial management and
   book keeping activities required to be undertaken at the level of VSSs.
9. For this purpose the A P Forest Academy conducted training of trainers. The PMU
   has identified designated training centres in each division for conducting these raining
   programmes.


                                          17
   10. Training in social development: Training under this theme include training in
       conflict resolution, gender issues, issues of other vulnerable groups, social safeguards
       needed under the Project, leadership development, communication skills, health,
       family welfare etc. These programmes were organized at VSS level through the
       NGOs associated with the respective VSSs and the Community Extension Workers
       engaged. The AP Forest Academy Dullapalli conducted regular training programmes
       for the NGOs and the Community Extension Workers and the nominees of the forest
       department.
   11. Training in information technology: Training in information technology primarily
       focussed on officers and staff of the forest department. Training in Geomatics
       including use of GPS equipment will be imparted at the AP Forest Academy
       Dullapalli. Training in use of FMIS was imparted at the designated training centres
       identified by the PMU in addition to the A P Forest Academy. This training was
       imparted to the officers and staff who possess basic knowledge of computers and who
       will be using FMIS.
         To assist the Conservators of Forests in organizing and coordinating these training
programmes, training coordinators were provided.

       By the Mid-Term Review in 2006, most of the targets set for forest management were
accomplished and policy and administrative reforms were in place. Focus then shifted to
linking livelihoods to forest management, looking at alternative especially non-forest
livelihood opportunities especially for (forest) resource poor VSSs and concomitant
institutional reforms. The Project was then reorganized with increased focus on livelihood
enhancement. Institution strengthening then became an important component of the project
aiming at addressing issues of skill upgradation, building social capital and social and
economic equity with suitable institutional reforms to enable the communities to meet the
emerging mandate of forest management through business planning and enterprise
development and marketing.

       The structure of VSS that has emerged during JFM phase. CFM initiative brought in
certain improvements especially in gender issues. With commencement of flow of benefits
and usufruct to the VSSs there is now need to look carefully into the structure and
functioning of the VSSs especially with regard to profile of membership. Experience has
brought out that heterogeneity of membership of VSSs in terms of economic profile, degree
of forest dependence, extent of participation in protection and management of forests, viewed

                                              18
in the context of commencement of benefit flow is likely to complicate matters in the coming
years and conflicting relations are likely to emerge on account of these. Thus there is a need
to address these issues adequately and at the earliest. This is required more to ensure that all
active members of VSSs who invariably are the poorest of the poor and who really depend on
the forests and who have built their institution of VSS derive maximum benefits from the
forests. To ensure livelihood enhancement of forest dependant families to development and
management of forest based enterprise a new institution development strategy was evolved.
The poor and more dependant members of VSSs were organised as Common Enterprise
Groups (CEGs) at the village level. These informal groups federated at Cluster level where
they functioned as Common Facility Centres providing facility of aggregation, training and
market support. Since these institutions functioned more on an enterprise mode, they did
inculcate a strong business sense.

       The Common Enterprise Groups (CEGs) that operate on adda leaf trade constituted a
Society at Division level (in three Divisions of Paderu, Narsipatnam and Visakhapatnam) and
the ones operating on Bamboo based enterprise of manufacturing agarabatti sticks have now
constituted a Producer Company in Tiriyani (Bellampalli Division).

       Active involvement of local communities, sustained inter-sectoral coordination,
involvement of NGOs and improvement in technical specialization of the Forest Department
personnel were the key tasks identified for the changed approach to forest management. It
was therefore considered that training was one of the vital means for strengthening
institutional capacity of the APFD for ushering in structural changes. Accordingly the project
developed and implemented a comprehensive capacity-building programme for its
stakeholders.

       A couple of training needs assessment studies were also commissioned in order to
identify training requirements of the APCFM stakeholders and to design appropriate training
modules and strategies for them. The needs assessment endeavour was led by Indian Institute
of Bio-Social Research and Development (IBRAD), Kolkatta. Based on the IBRAD's study,
the experience of needs assessment studies and training programmes already conducted under
the AP Forestry Project and the requirements of the APCFM project, the thrust areas and
themes had been identified in consultation with the project stakeholders, particularly the field
functionaries, and others for conducting training programmes at the State level (A.P. Forest



                                              19
Academy), regional level (Regional Research Centers) and Divisional level (Divisional and
Range Training Centers).

       The training and capacity building interventions spanned a range of initiatives at
different levels; these include establishment of new training centres and upgradation of the
existing ones. In some areas, the training centres or infrastructure of other Government
Departments or institutions such as Agriculture Department (FTCs), Rural Development
Department (DTDCs), Women Welfare Department (Mahila Pranganams) and Agricultural
Universities (KVKs) were also availed.
       The Andhra Pradesh Forest Academy (APFA), situated at Dulapally on the outskirts
of Hyderabad, acted as the training hub for the Project. It played a major role in conducting
and coordinating a wide range of training programmes for the stakeholders in addition to its
regular activities in the field of forest development and management.
       In order to meet the field level training needs, particularly at the Divisional or
Regional level, the Academy organized Training of Trainers (ToT) courses on a variety of
subjects related to CFM. These trained trainers act as resource persons for capacity
strengthening programmes at the Divisional level. Selected NGO representatives, CEWs and
Training Coordinators have been trained under the ToT programmme. Livelihood promotion
is one of the priority objectives of CFM. The Academy, therefore, developed and conducted
training sessions for stakeholders and service providers on livelihood planning; livelihood
enhancement strategies; NTFP - development, value addition and marketing; medicinal plants
­ conservation, cultivation and marketing; and bamboo ­ development and utilization. The
methods of workshops/seminars and study tours have been extensively used by the Academy
to equip the stakeholders in different subjects of forestry.
       The APFA joined hands with a number of reputed national institutes for imparting
training to the CFM Project stakeholders. Under this component Forest Department staff
(senior officials as well as field level staff) and NGOs were trained at the associate national
institutes such as Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad; Institute of Rural
Management, Anand; Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal; National Institute of
Rural Development, Hyderabad; Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad; and
Indian Institute of Bio-Social Research and Development (IBRAD), Kolkatta. The broad
areas covered by the training programmes at the national level include Human resource
development and management, Effective human relations, Rural marketing, Participatory
practices and management of natural resources for sustainable livelihoods (including NTFP),

                                                20
Microfinance and promotion of SHGs, Qualitative research methods, Biodiversity, Gender-
related subjects (such as sensitization and empowerment), Team building and conflict
management/resolution, Change management, Cultivation, conservation and marketing of
medicinal plants, Inter-personal relations and communication skills, Information technology
for development (including GPS/GIS and remote sensing in natural resource management)
etc.
Technology Dissemination Centres (TDCs): The project set up14 Technology
Dissemination Centres (TDCs) in the project Districts, by upgrading one central nursery per
district, which serve as training and dissemination centres in implementing the capacity
strengthening interventions in the themes identified under the CFM project. The TDCs serve
as a means to decentralize and disseminate improved technologies by making these
technological breakthroughs more assessable to the staff and VSS members so that the
technologies would be popularized and adopted. The TDCs will not only continue to function
as propagation units but also function as an interface with the VSSs and field level
functionaries of the Forest Department. Trainings at these Centres focus on interactive
seminars and field demonstrations or visits with respect to new applied research findings and
act as platforms for training the CFM stakeholders operating at the field level. Improved
plant material would continue to be produced in the TDCs and they will also perform the
function of high-tech nurseries. All the essential facilities and equipment that are needed for
the training and dissemination activities have been provided at the TDCs. The APFA is the
designated hub for coordinating and facilitating training programmes hosted by TDCs by
providing the relevant guidance and inputs. Table 1.3 presents the details of TDCs.
       The trainers and resource persons for the training programmes were drawn from a
variety of sources. They include retired and serving Forest Department officials, members of
NGOs and specialists from a range of institutions. The APCFM project adopted a range of
methods to impart training to the stakeholders as there is a great deal of diversity among
stakeholders not only in terms of the level of capacity to learn and apply the skills but also by
way of their roles and responsibilities in various aspects of participatory management of
forest resources.

Workshops and Seminars: In order to facilitate dissemination of information, exchange of
best practices, sharing of experiences and effective participation, workshops and seminars
were conducted at the Divisional level. The themes for workshops were picked mostly from
the four broad fields mentioned above.

                                               21
Study Tours and Exposure Visits: Experiencing something first-hand is one of the most
effective ways of learning. Exposure of Forest Department staff, NGOs and VSS members to
the best practices in forest management within and outside the State will facilitate effective
learning and up-gradation of skills. As part of this component. a number of study tours have
been conducted. For instance, in the financial year 2004-05 almost 100 study tours were
organized within and outside the State,

Training Events Abroad: Overseas training events were also organized ­ mostly for senior
officials involved in the project implementation ­ to enhance the technical capacity of senior
project managers by keeping them abreast of the recent developments in the forestry sector.

CEFNARM: An autonomous Society viz Centre for Forest Resources and Natural Resources
Management (CEFNARM) emerged by 2007(which functions from the premises of the AP
forest Academy, Dulapalli) to carry forward the training and capacity building initiatives of
the Project and to expand them to other similar schemes and Projects and to other
Departments and NGOs. This Society, apart from coordinating and sphere heading training
programmes, also has mandate for conducting action research and coordinating activities of
Research, Extension and Information Technology wing within the APFD. It has been
recognised by the GOI for conducting some of its training programmes and wok shops.
Constitution of CEFNARM as an autonomous institution and its activities has ensured an
element of sustainability to the initiatives of capacity building and development of social
capital in forestry sector in Andhra Pradesh.

       All these initiatives needed development of human capital to sustain community
participation in the longer run. A four months certificate course was designed for promoting
a cadre of Community Silviculturists with adequate training in core forestry issues coupled
with livelihood planning and monitoring aspects. The AP Forest Academy emerge as training
hub for these trainings and in three batches 56 youth have been trained in professional
forestry and forest based livelihoods management. This training included class room lectures,
field visits and project work. This human capital was subsequently utilized in conducting
House Hold Survey to assess the Project impacts on livelihoods.


3. Monitoring and Evaluation:

M&E Frame work: At the beginning of Project implementation a framework for Monitoring
and Evaluation was prepared in consultation with M/s CENPAP, Consultant to the Project on


                                                22
M&E. This framework outlined the various parameters, methods and indicators for
monitoring and evaluation. It provides for Input-Output monitoring, Participatory monitoring,
concurrent monitoring (at six monthly intervals) and broad framework for Mid-term and end
of the Project evaluations and certain special studies. It outlines the role of various agencies
such as Forest Department, CEWs, NGOs (NGO Coordinators and Training Coordinators) in
monitoring and evaluation, criteria for assessment of performance of VSSs and CEWs and
others involved in Project implementation. This framework was suitably upgraded during the
course of Project implementation to incorporate the new initiatives that were taken in the
field of livelihood enhancement and market support. Copy of this M&E framework was
shared with the World Bank. Details of monitoring reports for various indicators are detailed
in the annexure.

Monitoring through Logframe: Logframe prepared at the time of Project preparation is the
basis for monitoring the Project implementation and assessing its performance.             This
logframe was however suitably upgraded during mid-term review to provide for revised focus
on livelihoods. It provides for an organic linkage between Project Goal, Project Objective, its
Outputs, anticipated outcomes and activities. Status of achievement against each indicator for
the hierarchy of Goal, Objective, Outputs and Activities is given in the annexure.

Forest Management Information System: A computerized monitoring package (Forest
Management Information System ­ FMIS) was developed with in house capabilities and
installed in all the Ranges, Divisions, Circles and in PMU at Head Quarters. It is a
comprehensive package covering all the Project components and activities. It was developed
suitably upgrading (and revising the platform and front end with MS Access and Visual
BASIC respectively) the Integrated Computer Based Management Information System
(ICMIS) that was developed with the assistance of the World Bank while implementing the
AP Forestry Project (1994-2000). It was redesigned not only to suit the requirement of
APCFM Project but all other developmental Projects that would be implemented by the
Forest department. To handle this package effectively and to provide implementation support,
IT Project Scientists were engaged on contract basis at all Project Divisions, Circles and at
PMU. All the Financial transactions of the project including the ones pertaining to VSSs and
claims for reimbursements are made through this package. The package also provides for
capturing various other indicators such as physical progress, income generation, employment
generation and many other indicators. The monitoring reports including the Financial
Management Reports (FMRs) generated from this package are given in the annexure.

                                              23
Participatory Monitoring: One of the approaches to monitoring is Participatory monitoring
where the VSS members themselves participate and monitor their performance and
performance of Project in general. A schedule with 20 parameters for assessment with 4
options to each parameter was prepared.          The same was translated in Telugu and
disseminated using symbols for use by illiterate members. Services of NGOs and Community
Extension Workers were utilized in carrying out Participatory monitoring. Analysis of the
data gathered during participatory monitoring was used to grade the VSSs. This participatory
monitoring was conducted for two years i.e. 2004-05 and 2005-06 after which the format was
revised to avoid repetitiveness. During 2004-05, VSSs (3736) were graded on the basis of
participatory monitoring. 1353(36%) VSS were graded as Excellent, 1179(32%) as Very
Good, 856(23%) as Good, 206(5%) as Average and 142(4%) rated as below Average.
Similarly 4754 VSSs out of 5000 were graded on the basis of participatory monitoring reports
received during 2005-06. Further analysis of the data on participatory monitoring revealed
that 1426 VSSs (30 %) are Excellent followed by 1429 (30 %) as Very Good, 797 (17 %) as
Good, 532 (11 %) as Average and 570 (12 %) as Below Average. This exercise covered 4824
VSSs during 2006-07 during which 1116 (23%) were graded as Excellent, 1850(38%) as
Very Good, 1505 (31%) As Good, 281 (6%) as Average and 75 (2%) as Below Average.
This information was used for designing specific training programmes for members of VSS
as per their grading. This exercise was then replaced by Participatory Evaluation (Social
Audit).

Concurrent Monitoring: Concurrent monitoring was done by an independent agency (M.s
CENPAP). This consultant obtained MIS data from the Project and certified the same
independently and conducted independent corroborative studies throughout the Project
period. The consultant has furnished 10 reports through concurrent monitoring all of which
are shared with the World Bank. The Consultant on Concurrent monitoring also helped in
developing the M&E Framework, format and indicators for Participatory monitoring and
Participatory evaluation (Social Audit).

Participatory Evaluation/Social Audit: Participatory evaluation or Social audit was used as
a tool through which community can evaluate its and Projects performance on a set of
criteria and indicators. Social Audit of VSS was carried out at two levels. One was at the
organization level (VSS) and another at beneficiary/ community level (VSS members or
forest dependant community). The internal component corresponds to institutional aspects of
VSS, whereas the external component involves verification of social account by an

                                            24
independent social auditor or an audit panel. Social audit included scrutiny of book of records
and registers at VSS level and discussions with stakeholders and community in their settings.
Methodology of audit comprised social      accounting,     stakeholder consultation, interviews
(of staff, NGO functionaries, and beneficiaries among others who benefited directly or
indirectly from VSS activities or played a role in its functioning). Social Audit examined
each VSS through five criteria of critical importance to assess the performance of the VSS
towards sustainability for CFM. Each criterion was in turn assessed through five key
indicators to get measure the performance of VSS. The following are the criteria and
indicators adopted under social audit.

             Criteria                                        Indicators
                                     Awareness on Roles and Responsibilities
                                     Collaboration and Coordination
VSS Organizational Effectiveness     Conflict Resolution
                                     Transparency
                                     Self Reliance
                                     Inclusiveness of Vulnerable Groups
                                     Selection of members for wage employment
          Social Equity              Selection of members for Livelihoods Assistance
                                     Economic Assistance to Women
                                     Access to forests for domestic requirement
                                     Generation of Wage Employment
                                     NTFP Collection
       Economic Benefits             Livelihood assistance
                                     Sharing of Income among Members
                                     Economic benefits from other departments
                                     Extent of Forest area Treated by VSS
                                     Development of Resources of VSS Natural Forest
                                     Areas
    Resources Sustainability
                                     Development of plantations in Forest areas by VSS
                                     Livelihood business generation
                                     Actual or projected harvesting Income
     Environmental Benefits          Protection of Forest by VSS against Theft and


                                              25
                                     Smuggling
                                     Protection of Forest by VSS against Encroachment
                                     Protection of Forest by VSS against Fire
                                     Protection of Forest by VSS against open Grazing
                                     Impact of SMC works



Social Auditors assessed each VSS on a four point scale each of which represented an
outcome or practice adopted at the VSS level in order to provide more objectivity to the
whole assessment. The final scores of each VSS (100) were arrived through assigning
weightages for each criterion as per their importance in sustaining the VSS beyond project
period. The weightages assigned were (a) Environmental Benefits-30% (b) VSS
Organizational Effectiveness -25% (c) Social Equity- 15% (d) Economic Benefits-15% and
(E) Resource Sustainability-15%. Responses were captured on OMR sheets and analysed.
The process of social audit commenced from developing criteria and indicators and was
evolved through participatory process involving all concerned stakeholders and other
professional agencies. Results analysed are shared with the Mission.

House Hold Survey: For the purpose of data for the study, two separate surveys were
conducted one during 2005 (at the time of preparation of livelihood plans for APCFMP) and
other during 2009 to study the impact of various project activities on household income.
Selection of VSSs for study during 2009 was done on the basis of rank scored by the
respective VSS in Social Audit. The data for the study was collected from the same
households twice ­ once during 2005 and second time during 2009. Discussions with officials
and VSS leaders were made for gaining qualitative insights into the implementation of
project activities and its impact on livelihood needs of VSS members. The key areas of issues
covered under the study were profile of sample households, income sources during 2005 &
2009, annual household income by source during 2005 & 2009, livestock ownership during
2005 & 2009, sources of energy and energy consumed by source during 2005 & 2009, pattern
of household expenditure during 2005 & 2009, savings, credit and group activities of VSS
members during 2005 & 2009 and other Livelihood needs and usufruct needs met from
project activities. The required information under various components was generated using
both qualitative and quantitative research techniques. The qualitative research techniques
included informal discussions and Focus Group Discussions with stakeholders, in-depth


                                             26
interviews among state, district, division, range, and village level officials. The quantitative
research techniques employed includes structured interviews among VSS members and
official information pertained to sample VSS from forest officials, official information from
FMIS and M&E reports. The result of this study gives an insight into the profile of
dependence of VSS members on the forests and contribution of forests to livelihoods of the
people.

Independent Evaluation of Project Impacts:

Following special studies were conducted for Mid Term Review:

Study of Change Vegetative Cover and Forest Type in sample VSSs: This study was
awarded to M/s NSRA, Hyderabad. The report has been used in Mid Term Review of the
project.

Study of Impact Assessment (Institutional & Economical): This study was commissioned to
study impact of project implementation for Mid Term Review of the project. This
consultancy was awarded to M/s Development and Research Services, Pvt. Ltd,
Secunderabad. The consultant has completed the assignment and submitted final report,
which has been used in Mid Term Review.

Study of Impact Assessment (Environmental and Ecological):                   This study was
commissioned to study impact of project implementation for Mid Term Review of the
project. This consultancy was awarded to M/s.ENVID Group, Andhra University,
Visakhapatnam. The consultants report has been used in Mid Term Review of the project.

Study of Socio Economic Status of Podu land Cultivators in VSS areas: This study was
commissioned to study Economics of Podu Cultivation in the light of the P&R Policy and
Resettlement Action Plan under the Project. The report was used to analyze Resettlement
Package under the project during Mid Term Review of the project.

Special studies for Implementation Completion Review:

Concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation of project implementation: This is an on going
Independent Third Party monitoring of project implementation as required under the APCFM
Project agreement. This consultancy was awarded to M/s. Centre for Public Perception and
Policy, Hyderabad (CENPAP). The consultant has submitted a report on the M&E Frame


                                              27
Work. Further the periodical monitoring reports as per the M&E Frame Work are being
submitted by the consultant. This is a consultancy for concurrent monitoring.

Consultancy on "Assessment of Socio Economic Impact": This study has been awarded to
M/s Development and Research services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad. On approval of proposals of
the committee by the Government, this consultancy was awarded to M/s Development and
Research services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad.

Consultancy on "Assessment of Environmental and Ecological Impact": This study has
also been awarded to M/s Development and Research services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad.

Impact of Capacity Building Programmes under APCFM Project: M/s Center for
Management & Social Research, Hyderabad have undertaken this study.

Study of Impact of Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan: This study is also being
done by M/s Center for Management & Social Research, Hyderabad.


4. Procurement of Goods, Works and Services:

Procurement of Forestry works: Procurement of all Forestry works relating to VSSs were
done through Community participation. Since development objective of this Project is to
reduce the rural poverty through improved Forest Management with community
participation, empowerment and improving capacity of impoverished forest fringe
communities to undertake forest management and protection were of utmost importance.
ALL forestry works except those relating to Applied Research and Forest Inventory were
carried through Community participation. Forestry works relating to Applied Research and
Forest Inventory were carried through Force Account.

Civil Works: Among Civil Works construction of FROs Quarters, Construction of Aranya
Bhavan and Hotel Building and Indoor Stadium in AP Forest Academy Dulapalli were taken
up. (33) Forest Range Officers Quarters cum Office Buildings have been constructed through
Force Account with an expenditure of Rs.1,87,23,965 and are in use.
Construction of Aranya Bhavan and Hostel Building and Indoor Stadium were taken up
through M/s APIIC, Hyderabad through National Competitive Bidding. Details of these
works are as below:




                                             28
1.2.1 Forest Head Quarters Building (Aranya Bhavan): This work was taken up through
AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd., Hyderabad. The construction of Forest Head
Quarters Building is organized into following packages as shown below:

(a) The dismantling of the old structure of building was completed at a cost of Rs. 15.11
lakhs under NCB.

(b) Civil works, sanitary and water supply, internal electrical wiring etc. at a cost of Rs.
1408.31 lakhs under NCB.

(c) Supply and installation of ACs, lifts, Fire fighting, and electrification etc., under NCB for
an amount of Rs.717.53 lakhs.

(d) Providing Interiors including partitions, Wall Panelling, false ceiling and paintings under
NCB document for an amount of Rs. 189.50 lakhs.

(e) Providing work station and furniture under NCB for an amount of Rs. 196.79 lakhs.

       The total amount spent on this building is Rs. 2527.24 lakhs out of which an amount
of Rs. 2489.48 lakhs has been reimbursed by the World Bank.

Hostel Building, Indoor stadium cum Auditorium at AP Forest Academy, Dulapally: An
executive Hostel and an Indoor Stadium cum Auditorium have been constructed through
NCB with an expenditure of Rs. 391.25 lakhs out of which an amount of Rs. 350.23 lakhs has
been reimbursed by the World Bank. Both these structures are in use.


Procurement of Goods and Equipments
Vehicles: Government in their GO No. 139/EFS&T /Dept., dt.13.11.2003, GORT No.100/
EFS&T /Dept., dt.21.8.2006 and GORT No.324/ EFS&T /Dept., dt.17.7.2006 have accorded
permission to procure (18) cars and (43) Jeeps. Accordingly, the above vehicles have been
procured through National Shopping Procedure incurring the expenditure of Rs.77,18,205/-
on (18) cars and Rs.2,07,46,925/- on (43) Jeeps. Thus the total amount was incurred on the
above vehicles comes to Rs.2,84,65,120/-.

Goods: On approval of procurement plans for the goods and equipments by the World Bank,
the following goods and equipment have been procured through the APTS Ltd., Hyderabad
and some of the Goods and Equipment have been procured under National Shopping / Local
Shopping Procedure under APCFM Project as shown below:



                                               29
Sl. No                Item          Procurements completed so far
                                      Qty    Expenditure (Rs.in lakh)
   1       Desk Top Computers         352               134.813
   2       Laptops                    85                107.773
   3       Hand held data loggers     60                 15.683
   4       GIS Software ARC           02                 2.370
           Info NT
   5       GIS Software ARC           05                 12.500
           View
   6       Printers                   323                38.469
   7       Plotters                   02                 11.439
   8       Scanners                   06                 1.190
   9       GPS                        400                51.590
  10       A3 Colour Laser             2                 10.151
           Printer
  11       Digital Cameras            50                 23.048
  12       Xerox Machines             01                 1.135
  13       UPS                        50                 7.823
  14       Office Equipment,
           (a)Photo Copiers           65                 82.455
           (b) DVD Players            70                 13.831
           (c) LCD Projectors         58                 60.537
                                     Total              574.807


Services: Services of Consulting firms and experts were engaged for conducting certain
studies for Project preparation, to assess impacts at Mid Term review and at the end of the
Project status.
         Following is a brief account of the studies commissioned that helped in the Project
design and its contents:
Social and Environmental Assessment: This study was entrusted to the National Institute of
Rural Development, Hyderabad as part of project preparation to design the project
components and activities and assess their likely impact especially with reference to
operational directives and guidelines of the world Bank like Resettlement and Rehabilitation,

                                             30
Tribal Development etc., and provide for strategies and action plans to address the issues that
emerge. The report has been used for preparing the Project Implementation Plan, R&R Policy
and Tribal Development Strategy.
Institutional Assessment: This consultancy was undertaken as part of Project Preparation
through M/s Om Consultants (India) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. It dealt mainly with
implementation arrangements and strategies for Capacity Building. The report has been
utilized in preparation of the Project Implementation Plan especially the training plan.
Study of Sustainable Harvesting, Conservation, Cultivation and Marketing Linkages for
medicinal plants: Since medicinal plants was an emerging subject at the time of preparation
of the project, a detailed study was felt essential to understand the nuances medicinal plants
with regard to their conservation needs, Cultivation practices, Harvesting and Post Harvesting
issues etc. The study covers all these aspects. This consultancy was awarded to Ms.
Foundation of Revitalization of Local Health Traditions (FRLHT), Bangalore. The report has
been utilized in various activities relating to conservation of medicinal plants.
Preparation of Sub Project for development of Tsunami Sensitive Areas in A.P: After the
Tsunami hit the coastal areas in the Indian Ocean and Bay of Bengal during December 2004,
the Government and the World Bank decided, in consultation with the Government of
Andhra Pradesh to invest in development of Tsunami Sensitive area. To implement activities
upon this reallocation a detailed sub project was to be prepared. Hence this consultancy was
commissioned. This consultancy was awarded to M/s. Swaminathan Research Foundation,
Chennai. The suggestions made in the report have formed the basis for developing strategies
and action plans for restoration of Mangrove Forest and for raising Shelter belt Plantations
for development areas sensitive to Tsunamis.

Development & Implementation support for accessing Carbon Revenue: This consultancy
has been commissioned to get projects prepared for accessing revenue from international
market towards Carbon sequestration as a major to attempt to address issues of climate
change. This consultancy was awarded to the M/s. Energy and Resources Institute, New
Delhi. The consultant has prepared and submitted a Draft Design Project Document on
accessing carbon markets basing of Eucalyptus Plantations in Nellore district and rejuvenated
Teak forests of Karimnagar District.

Special Studies for Mid Term Review:




                                               31
Study of Change Vegetative Cover and Forest Type in sample VSSs: This study was
commissioned to study impact of project implementation for Mid Term Review of the
project. This consultancy was awarded to M/s. NRSA, Hyderabad The consultant has
completed the assignment and submitted final report, which has been used in Mid Term
Review of the project.

Study of Impact Assessment (Institutional & Economical): This study was commissioned to
study impact of project implementation for Mid Term Review of the project. This
consultancy was awarded to M/s Development and Research Services, Pvt. Ltd,
Secunderabad. The consultant has completed the assignment and submitted final report,
which has been used in Mid Term Review during May, 2006.

Study of Impact Assessment (Environmental and Ecological):                  This study was
commissioned to study impact of project implementation for Mid Term Review of the
project. This consultancy was awarded to M/s.ENVID Group, Andhra University,
Visakhapatnam. The consultants report has been used in Mid Term Review of the project.

Study of Socio Economic Status of Podu land Cultivators in VSS areas: This study was
commissioned to study Economics of Podu Cultivation in the light of the R&R Policy and
Resettlement Action Plan under the Project. This consultancy was awarded to the M/s. Samaj
Vikas Development Support Organisation, Hyderabad. The consultant has completed the
assignment and submitted final report, which was used to analyze Resettlement Package
under the project during Mid Term Review of the project.

Special Studies:

NTFP study: NTFPs have tremendous potential to generate immediate incomes to VSS
members. To study critical issues of some major NTFPs with reference to their conservation
needs, cultivation practices, value addition and Enterprise Development and Management
etc., this consultancy was initiated. This consultancy was awarded to the Energy and
Research Institute, New Delhi. The consultancy selected Adilabad, Chittoor and
Visakhapatnam districts for the purpose of field study. The report of this study has been used
extensively for development of Enterprise packages and for providing market linkages for
various NTFPs.

Study of Delegation of financial powers and administrative reforms:


                                             32
This study was commissioned to study possibility of reforms to financial procedures and
delegation of administrative and financial responsibilities in the light of increase in workload
due to implementation of APCFM Project. Basing on the report of the study, the Government
have amended the AP Forest Department Code enhancing Delegation of financial powers,
introduction of tender system, streamlining financial management involving VSSs etc.

Consultancy on study of Financial Management System in VSSs and their Common
Enterprise Groups and Federations:      The consultancy was commissioned to streamline and
lay down guidelines for financial management by Common Enterprise Groups and
Federations of VSS members involved in forest and forest based enterprise management. The
report is being used in streamlining financial management as outlined in the objective of the
study.

Consultancy on the Value Addition, Technology transfer and Commercialization for Micro
enterprises Development of Bamboo in A.P: This study was felt essential to document and
explore the various possibilities of value addition to bamboo in the state of Andhra Pradesh
that can be promoted to the benefit of VSSs. This consultancy was awarded to M/s.A.P.
Technology Development and Promotion Center, Hyderabad. The consultant has completed
the assignment and submitted final report, which is being used for developing bamboo based
Micro Enterprises like Agarbathi making, Bamboo furniture etc.

Data collection for social audit: On approval of TOR by the World Bank, the task of data
collection for social audit/participatory evaluation was outsourced. Data from randomly
selected VSS members following the criteria laid down in the manual for conducting this
audit was carried by this outsourced agency. The data collected on OMR sheets was scanned
by another agency again selected through competitive process. The data gathered and
scanned was then analysed by M/s CENPAP, Consultants on M&E to the Project and report
was prepared.

Establishment of One Model Hand Made Paper Unit based on Boddha Grass as a Raw
material: On approval of TOR by the World Bank this consultancy was awarded to M/s
Kumarappa National Hand Made Paper Institution, Sanganer, Jaipur. Basing on the advise
given by this Consultant construction of a work shed and procurement of equipment (through
National Shopping) have been done. The unit is now being operationalised.

Special studies for Implementation Completion Review:-

                                              33
Study on preparation of material for implementation of the Pest Management Plan: Pest
Management is an agreed covenant for implementation under the project. Since Forest
Department does not have adequate expertise in Integrated Pest Management Strategies,
services of a consultant have been engaged. This consultancy was awarded to M/s. Centre for
Environment Concerns, Hyderabad. The consultant has worked closely with the Research and
Development wing and has submitted IPM Strategies and Training material which have been
disseminated in interactive seminars and workshops.

Independent Audit of VSS Related Financial Management: As suggested by the World
Bak during MTR, Chartered Accountant Firms were engaged to carry out a special audit of
expenditure of a sample (5%) of VSSs in the Project area. This audit looked at books of
accounts and accounting systems and fund flow mechanisms at VSSs level and suggested
certain monitoring arrangements to help ensure efficiency of accounting systems at VSS
level. These recommendations were disseminated to implementing agencies and accounting
centres in the Project and improvements suggested were implemented. The same are being
monitored now through the Internal Audit wing of the Forest Department. Details of
suggestions made and action taken there on are given in the annexure.

Physical verification of VSS Assets: This verification was envisaged to have an Independent
Assessment of status of VSS assets provided under the project. The suggestions made
consequent to this study are being complied. Details are given in the annexure.

Survey of all VSS for data collection for integrating MIS and GIS data base: This task has
been envisaged to upgrade the available VSS data base on GIS mode using GPS. All the VSS
boundaries have now been surveyed through GPS and their maps are now available in GIS
environment.

Development of Integrated Forest Management System: This task has been envisaged to
upgrade the available VSS data base on GIS mode using GPS and integrating both data. This
consultancy was awarded to the ANTRIX Corporation, ISRO, Bangalore. The consultant has
submitted draft report after systems analysis and design. The consultant has also given
training to the IT consultants of PCCFs office and DFOs office of Kakinada and
Karimnagar (E) divisions on usage of Range Development. The consultant has submitted the
report on Design, Development and Prototype Demonstration in One pilot division. The work
is under progress.


                                              34
Consultancy on Monitoring and Evaluation of project implementation: This is an on going
Independent Third Party monitoring of project implementation as required under the APCFM
Project agreement. This consultancy was awarded to M/s. Centre for Public Perception and
Policy, Hyderabad (CENPAP). The consultant has submitted a report on the M&E Frame
Work. Further the periodical monitoring reports as per the M&E Frame Work are being
submitted by the consultant. This is a consultancy for concurrent monitoring.

Consultancy on "Assessment of Socio Economic Impact": This study has been awarded to
M/s.Development and Research services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad. The draft report subnmitted
has been shared with the Mission.

Consultancy on "Assessment of Environmental and Ecological Impact": M/s.Development
and Research services Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad have undertaken this study. The draft report
submitted by the consultant has been shared with the Mission.

Consultancy on "Impact of Capacity Building Programmes under APCFM Project: This
study has been entrusted to M/s.Center for Management & Social Research, Hyderabad. The
draft report submitted by he consultant has been shared with the mission.

Consultancy on Impact Assessment Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan under
APCFM Project:       This task has been awarded to M/s Center for Management & Social
Research, Hyderabad. The Consultant has submitted draft report which is shared wityh the
Mission.

Procurement procedure adopted (Pl. see para 4(a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement): The Project Implementation Plan prepared and adopted for implementing the
Project provides for details of implementing arrangements, roles, responsibilities, capacity
building arrangements, financial management, procurement, safeguard measures such as
R&R policy, Policy regarding Indigenous people, Environmental management and Pest
Management etc. for all Project activities including Procurement of works, Goods and
Services. These Procedures described therein are in tune with the agreed procedures detailed
in the Project Appraisal Document and the Project Agreements. The same were followed.
Training to the staff involved in Procurement was conducted during the Project launch on the
2nd November 2002 and subsequently elaborate training programmes were organized in the
AP Forest Academy, Dulapalli wherein Procurement Officers from the World Bank were
invited as resource persons. The Conservator of Forests (MEP) in the PMU who was


                                             35
responsible for Procurements was deputed for a specialized training on Procurement
procedures in the Administrative Staff College of India, Bella Vista, Hyderabad. Refresher
courses on Procurement were organized again during 2005 on Procurement procedures for
the staff of APFD. Staff of APFD and NGOs and VSS members was also trained in important
Project activities such as Microplanning, Social mobilization, Conflict resolutions and
various Forest management techniques such as Soil and Moisture Conservation Works,
Nurseries, Management of Plantations, Natural Forests etc. These training programmes were
held in the AP Forest Academy, Dulapalli and (14) Technology Dissemination Centres set up
under the project. NGOs who were trained in the AP Forest Academy Dulapalli functioned as
trainers in the TDCs to impart training to VSS members.

   To meet further training needs of the sector, an autonomous Society viz Centre for Forest
Resources and Natural Resources Management (CEFNARM) emerged by 2007(which
functions from the premises of the AP forest Academy, Dulapalli) to carry forward the
training and capacity building initiatives of the Project and to expand them to other similar
schemes and Projects and to other Departments and NGOs. This Society, apart from
coordinating and sphere heading training programmes, also has mandate for conducting
action research and coordinating activities of Research, Extension and Information
Technology wing within the APFD. It has been recognised by the GOI for conducting some
of its training programmes and work shops. Constitution of CEFNARM as an autonomous
institution and its activities has ensured an element of sustainability to the initiatives of
capacity building and development of social capital in forestry sector in Andhra Pradesh.

       All these initiatives needed development of human capital to sustain community
participation in the longer run. A four months certificate course was designed for promoting
a cadre of Community Silviculturists with adequate training in core forestry issues coupled
with livelihood planning and monitoring aspects. The AP Forest Academy emerge as training
hub for these trainings and in three batches 56 youth have been trained in professional
forestry and forest based livelihoods management. This training included class room lectures,
field visits and project work. This human capital was subsequently utilized in conducting
House Hold Survey to assess the Project impacts on livelihoods.

Delegation of powers: The Government during January 2004 have amended the AP Forest
Department Code through G O Ms. No. 2 EFES&T Dept Dt. 7.1.2004 providing for direct
funding to VSSs without routing the funds through Forest Range Officers. This amendment

                                             36
has come on account of a study conducted under the APCFM Project and the amendment was
issued in due consultation with the World Bank. This, while addressing the workload on the
implementing staff has ensured enhanced awareness and participation of the VSSs in
financial transaction. This amendment ensures that the cashbook of the VSS is the primary
cashbook of the Forest Department. Thus the financial responsibility is now with the VSSs.
There is clarity in the role and responsibility of VSS and Forest Department and this ensures
decentralization and transparency.

Guidelines for preparing and implementing microplans (Pl. see para 4(a) (ii) and para 8
(d) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement): A comprehensive policy on Community Forest
Management was issued in G O Ms. No. 13 EFS&T Dept Dt 12.2.2002 detailing elaborate
procedure for implementation of CFM. This policy detailed the microplanning process and
roles and responsibilities of VSSs and APFD in preparation, approval and implementation of
microplans. The Project Implementation Plan prescribes detailed guidelines for preparation of
microplans, their approval and implementation. The Managing Committee and members of
the V.S.S. through a participatory and equitable process including scheduled tribes, scheduled
castes, women, and other disadvantaged sections shall prepare a micro-plan and annual plan
in accordance with the guidelines issued by the forest department. The micro-plan shall
include various operations of village and forest development, maintenance of bio-diversity,
soil and moisture conservation, and livelihood support for the forest dependent members and
keeping sustainable forest management as the broad objective. The V.S.S. shall decide the
choice of the species for planting subject to the Forest Laws in vogue. The Micro-plan shall
contain a detailed harvesting and regeneration plan, which shall be consistent with the overall
prescriptions of working plan covering the area. The managing committee shall at the
beginning of the financial year prepare an annual plan of operation. During annual plan
preparation the micro-plan will be reviewed and updated as needed. All estimates of works to
be undertaken will be prepared by the responsible officer of the Forest Department and will
be reviewed by the Managing Committee. The Managing Committee will seek advice from
the Advisory Council as needed. All Micro-plans and proposed changes to micro-plans shall
be put before the General Body for approval. Where the General Body does not agree with
any of the provisions of the Micro-plan, the Managing Committee shall carry out such
changes as are necessary. Where the advisory council does not agree with the provisions
made in the Micro-Plan they shall discuss the same during a General Body Meeting and their
advice will be incorporated if a majority of Members agree. Finally the micro-plan will be

                                              37
placed before the Divisional Forest Officer for approval. If the Divisional Forest Officer
finds that any of the provisions of the Micro-plan are in contravention of the National and/or
State Forest Legislation, the Managing Committee shall carry out such changes as are
necessary to conform to said legislation, obtain approval of the General Body, and resubmit
the micro-plan to Divisional Forest Officer for approval. At the close of the financial year a
completion report showing the activities planned in the micro-plan, activities taken up during
the year, funds received, amounts spent on each item of works shall be placed before the
General Body and seek its approval for the deviations if any.

Reinvestment strategy: At the time of Project launch, the policy on CFM entailed only
incremental benefits to the participating communities. As discussed and agreed during Project
negotiations detailed consultations were held with various stakeholders and the policy on
CFM to the extent of entitlement of benefits and benefit sharing arrangements was revised
through G O Ms. No. 4 EFES&T (For III) Dept Dt. 12.1.2004. In terms of this policy reform
VSSs are entitled to all Non-timber Forest Produce, all intermediate yielding obtained from
silvicultural operations in natural forests, all timber and bamboo (including yield from
bamboo plantations) harvested from the forest managed by them except in case of plantations
that were raised initially by the Forest Department and handed over to the VSS for
management where their entitlement in the first rotation is in proportion to the period of
management of the plantation by them and all the yield in subsequent rotations. However this
entitlement is subject to carrying out all silvicultural operations including harvesting in
accordance with the silvicultural principles laid down in the respective Working Plans and
schedule detailed in respective micro plans of the Vana Samrakshana Samithi and adopting
rotation age and rotation period (where relevant) as prescribed in the respective Working
Plans. The benefit thus accrued shall be passed on to the Vana Samrakshana Samithi for
meeting their domestic requirement of the forest products. The forest product shall have to be
distributed among all the V.S.S. members as per the norms evolved by the Managing
Committee. The surplus quantity may be disposed as decided by the managing committee. In
the event of such sale any expenditure incurred by the Government on the harvesting and
disposal shall be reimbursed to the Government and expenditure necessary to sustain the
productivity of the forests as per the micro-plan shall be deposited in the V.S.S. joint account.
This amount shall not be less than 50% of the net income. Balance income shall be deposited
in the V.S.S. account and utilized as per decisions taken by the General Body of the Vana
Samrakshana Samithi.

                                               38
       To ensure sustainable community forest management and self sufficiency, an element
of cost sharing was envisaged while implementing the Project. The revision of policy on
benefit sharing arrangements detailed above looks into this aspect as well as it lays down
reinvestment of atleast 50% of net benefit from sale of timber and bamboo by the VSSs.
While this policy revision was made as early as 2004 itself, the operational mechanics
evolved through a process of consultation. Since major revenue to the VSSs is from
management of pulp wood and bamboo resources, procedures for reinvestment from these
sources are now evolved and under implementation. As regards Bamboo sale of surplus
harvest is made through traditional outlets of the Forest Department to ensure wider
participation of purchasers and competitive prices. Saleable Bamboo from various VSSs is
aggregated and sold through public auction in the presence of VSS members. The receipts
from such sale are then apportioned to the respective VSSs basing on the quantities sold and
the net revenue after deducting the expenses incurred are then passed on. While the VSSs
utilise 50% of this net revenue as a development fund either distributing it equitably or
investing in bonds and deposits, the remaining 50% is utilised a s regeneration fund and is
used for harvesting bamboos in subsequent seasons. This procedure apart from fetching
further revenues, provides for undertaking silvicultural operations necessary to ensure good
health of bamboo clumps.

       In respect of reinvestment of revenue from sale of pulp wood, an elaborate process of
developing reinvestment plans has been evolved wherein cycle of harvest, cycle of
reinvestment and corresponding details of benefit accrual and cost investment are worked out
duly following the silvicultural prescriptions of harvesting regime, post harvest operations
and plans are then drawn up. Here again sale of pulpwood is done at aggregate level with due
participation of VSSs to ensure competitive prices and the benefit accrued is passed on to the
respective VSSs basing on the actual removals. To ensure such aggregation and technical
support for reinvestment planning and implementation all the VSSs of a Division are have
joined the respective Forest development Agency as members.

       Similarly the cluster involved in manufacture and sale of adda leaf plates and
agarabatti sticks are also reinvesting net revenue realised from sale of value added products to
continue the business.

Engaging NGOs (Pl. see para 9 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement): The Project
Implementation Plan prescribed detailed arrangement for engaging NGOs. Services of Non

                                              39
Governmental Organizations were engaged in the areas of Social mobilization, Capacity
building and training the VSS, Planning and Monitoring the various Project activities at VSS
level.

         Only those NGOs whose firms are appropriately registered under the Societys Act or
 Trust Act or Companys Act and whose accounts have been audited independently for the
 past 3 years by a Chartered Accountant and who are not blacklisted by any Government
 agency, were considered for receiving financial support from this Project. The selection of
 NGOs would generally take into account, amongst others, the following criteria:

              The NGO should be non-political and should be having a proven track record of
              satisfied beneficiaries;
              It should consist of an adequate number of experienced field staff conversant
              with the local culture and language, and the socio-economic dimensions of the
              beneficiary groups;
              The staff of the selected NGO should have excellent communication skills;
              It should be registered as a Society or have other Corporate status;
              It should have facilities to maintain separately, records and accounting and
              auditing of funds allocated for the assignment, internal checks and balances and
              transparency;
              It should possess internal stability so as to ensure long term support; and
              It should not have been blacklisted by the Central Social and Welfare Board
              (CSWB) or Council for the Advancement of Peoples Action and Rural
              Technology (CAPART).


Internalizing Bank procedure for procurement: The Forest Department in Andhra
Pradesh, has been adopting procurement procedures of the World Bank for procurement of
goods for implementation of NREGS and other schemes and for procurement of services of
Consultants for evaluation of some of its developmental programmes. The procurement
procedures of the World Bank are found to be robust and transparent and are being adopted
for internal utility within the APFD with due modification.

Management Information System: A computerized monitoring package (Forest
Management Information System ­ FMIS) has been developed and installed in all the
Ranges, Divisions, Circles and in PMU at Head Quarters. It is a comprehensive package

                                               40
covering all the Project components and activities. To handle this package effectively IT
Project Scientists have been engaged on contract basis at all Project Divisions and at PMU.
This package facilitates monitoring all works and financial reports pertaining to the project.
All reimbursement claims and Financial Monitoring Reports are generated from this package.
The package also has been suitably upgraded to capture key indicators of physical progress,
employment generated, income generated and survival of plantations planted.

       Since enormous amount of database in GIS and MIS environments are developed
almost paralelly within the APFD, their integration and hosting through a Web enabled
application has been accomplished with the help of M/s Antrix Corporation, Bengaluru. This
package has all features that are available in the FMIS as detailed above, is integrated with
GIS database available within the APFD with regard to information on VSSs and various
other administrative and management units within the APFD. This package is being tested in
Kakinada Division at present. The plan for the future is to add a few modules on Production
Forestry, Social Forestry and other developmental activities of the Forestry Sector and host
on a dedicated server. Further financial support to this is assured from the APFD.


5. Financial Management and Audit:

Annual Work Plans: The total outlay of the project at the time of launch was assessed at
Rs. 653.971 Crores.    The Project is supported by IDA Credit of 85.50 Million XDRs.
However due to fluctuations in conversion rates between XDR, US Dollar and Indian
Rupees, the total outlay has been reassessed to be of the order of Rs. 680.89 Crores. Delayed
start, inclusion of new activities relating to development of Tsunami sensitive areas led to
delay in implementation and consequently extension of the Project for two years. Following
is the year wise achievement.

                                                                              (Rs. in Millions)

    Year              Target                Target                Actual
                    expenditure           expenditure           expenditure
                     (Original)            (Revised)

2001-02 (PPF)             -                                        12.359

2002-03 (PPF)             -                                        6.880

Total PPF                 -                                        19.239


                                              41
2002-03                996.845                                       87.443

2003-04                1567.210                                    1189.410

2004-05                1867.269                                    1144.817

2005-06                1357.874                                    1046.461

2006-07                750.516                                      999.719

Total                  6539.714                3467.5

2007-08                                        1337.3               749.196

2008-09                                       1330.70               786.842

2009-10                                        626.40               246.134

2010-11                    0                   47.10

Total                                         6808.90

Total PE                                                           6250.029

Grand Total            6539.714               6808.90              6269.268



 Financial Management and Disbursements:

 Financial Management System: A detailed functional manual on financial management
 under the Project is a part of the PIP. Financial Management under the Project is being
 undertaken strictly in accordance with the prescriptions of this manual and the agreed
 covenants and thresholds. To facilitate accurate and efficient book keeping at PMU level and
 implementation level (in Circle, Division and Range Offices) an exclusive module on
 financial management has been developed in the Forest Management Information System and
 is operational through out the Project area since Project launch.        This module ensures
 adherence of reimbursement limits of various categories of expenditure budget releases and
 annul work programme. All financial reports required for monitoring project performance
 are generated from this module. At the VSS level also simple financial management and
 accounting manual has been developed and is in use. This manual includes formats of books
 of accounts (cash book, muster registers, products received register, products disposal register
 etc.,) required to account for all revenues generated and expenditures incurred, formats of
 periodic financial reports required to be submitted to APFD and requirements of reporting to
 the community (like display of summary of finances in public etc.,).


                                               42
Reimbursement claims and disbursements: The total outlay of the Project is US$ 127.12
Million. Out of this the share of IDA is US$ 108.91 Million (85.50 Million XDRs) and that
of the GOAP is US$ 18.91 Million. Following are the reimbursements claimed and received
since inception of the project till the end of March 2010. According to the agreement, the
Project is to be closed by 31.3.2008. However, due to late commencement of the Project, non
achievement of the targeted activities, to consolidate the achievements made, make the VSS.
members self sustainable, the World Bank have agreed to extend the Project year after year
upto 31.3.2009 and further 31.3.2010.

                                                                      (Rs. In Millions)

                  Period            Expenditure       Reimbursement   Reimbursement
                                                         claimed         received

       2001-2002 PPF                    12.359           11.727          11.727

       2002-2003 PPF                    6.880             6.520           6.520

       Total PPF                        19.239           18.247          18.247

       2002-2003 (Year-1)PE             87.443           74.446          74.446

       2003-2004 (Year-2) PE         1189.410           1033.213        1033.213

       2004-2005 (Year-3) PE         1144.817            885.077         885.077

       2005-2006 (Year-4) PE         1046.461            933.597         933.597

       2006-2007 (Year-5)PE          999.719             775.931         775.931

       2007-2008 (Year-6) PE         749.196             627.749         627.749

       2008-2009 (Year-7) PE         786.842             554.576         554.576

       2009-2010 (Year-8(PE)         246.134             298.001         298.006

       Grand Total                       6269.268          5200.842         5200.842



The category wise reimbursement details of PPF and Project expenditure from 16-06-2002
to March, 2010 are as follows.
                                                                        (Rs. in Millions)
Period of claim       Category of       Expenditure       Amount        Amount
                      expenditure        incurred         claimed     reimbursed
    Project         Works                   4.302          3.872        3.872
  Preparation

                                                 43
    Fund

                  Goods                 2.808           2.246           2.246

                  Studies and           5.873           5.873           5.873
                  Consultancies

                  Training              6.256           6.256           6.256

Sub Total (A)                           19.239          18.247          18.247

                  Forestry
                  Operations and      3349.882         2985.991        2985.991
                  Works

                  Civil Works          533.984         413.841         413.841

                  Goods and
    Project                            162.769         141.853         141.853
                  Equipment
  expenditure
     from         Training
  16-06-02 to     Workshops and        743.764         727.358         727.358
December, 2009    Study Tours

                  Consultancy
                                       110.729          88.472          88.472
                  services

                  NGO Support          373.553         364.550         364.550

                  Operating Costs      645.519         172.129         172.129

                  TSU- Forestry        216.277         194.648         194.648
                  Operations and
                  Works

                  TSU- T.W.S            10.588          10.045          10.045

                  TSU-NGO               4.125           4.125           4.125

       Total PE                       6250.021         5182.595        5182.595

                Grand Total (A+B)     6269.268         5200.840        5200.840

Quarterly Financial Management Reports: According to the Agreement, the following
financial reports have to be made to World Bank, Government from time to time. The
quarterly financial reports are being sent from the inception of the project. Details of
reconciliation of particulars furnished in the FMRs and Reimbursement claims are given in
the annexure.

Year       FMR       Certified by               Expenditure reported              Remarks


                                           44
                        C&AG                          Reimbu    Reimbu     Reimb
                         (Audit          Total        rsement   rsement    urseme
                       Certificate)                   claimed   received   nt due
2001-     12.359       12.359         12.359          11.727    11.727     0
02
2002-   6.880          943.223        6.88            6.52      6.52       0
03 (PPE
2002-   87.443                        87.443          74.446    74.446     0
03 (PPE
2003-     1189.410     1189.410       1189.410        1033.213 1033.213             The revised
04 (PE)                                                                             FMR. Upto
                                                                                    31.03.2007
2004-     114.816      1144.816       1144.816        884.874   884.874
                                                                                    sent on 27-
05
                                                                                    08-2007
2005-     1046.461     1046.461       104.461         933.597   933.597
06
2006-     999.719      999.719        999.719         775.931   775.931
07
2007-     749.196      749.196        749.196         627.749   627.749
08
2008-     786.842      786.842        786.842         554.576   554.576             The revised
09                                                                                  FMR. Upto
                                                                                    31-03-2007
Total     6023.134     6023.134       6023.134        4902.836 4902.836
                                                                                    sent on 30-
upto
                                                                                    09-2009.
31-03-
09
2009-     246.134      Due            246.134         298.006   298.006
10
Total     6269.268     6023.129       6269.268        5200.840 5200.840



Statutory Audit: The statutory audit by Prl. Accountant General is to be done annually and
the report is to be sent to World Bank by end of September of next financial year. The
amounts objected to have to be deducted/settled. The Principal Accountant General Andhra
Pradesh Hyderabad is verifying the expenditure under APCFM Project annually and issuing
Annual Audit Certificates from 2001-02 onwards. The Annual Audit certificates have been
issued in the following letters by Prl. Accountant General. The same have been sent to World
Bank as soon as the annual audit certificate is received.

Year        Letter No. and date
2001-02 and AG Lr.No AP.Cell/WBP/ 2003-04641,dt.12.2.2004

                                                 45
2002-03
2003-04       AGs Ref.EAP. CELL/WBP/ APCFM 2004-05/438, dt.30.12.2004
              22.06.2006 and 23.08.2006
2004-05       AG Ref No.PAC(CA) EAP.Cell/WBP/ APCFM/2005-0649, dt.25.11.2005.
2005-06       AG.Ref.PAG(CA)EAP.cell/APCFM/2006-07/22 DT.28.12.06..sent to World
              Bank in Lr.41937/06/PMU-II/2 dt.13.1.07
2006-07       Prl.AG (CA)No.PAG (CA)FCS /U-II/APCFM/2006-07/98, dt. 02.01.2008
2007-08       Prl.AG (CA)No.EAP.cell/WVP/2008-09/265, dt. 28.11.2008
2008-09       Prl.AG (CA)No.EAP.cell/WVP/2009-2010/769, dt. 13.10.2009.

Following is the position of amounts held under objection and settled/deducted

                                                                       Rupees in lakhs.

             Year         Expenditure Amount       Amount           Amount
                          certified    held under Settled           deducted
                                       objection
             2001-02           123.586     0.492      0.492              0
             2002-03           943.233     2.980      2.980              0
             2003-04         11894.09    232.092     232.092             0
                                        (19 paras) (19 paras)
             2004-05       11448.160     1243.43     1241.78           1.650
                                       (22 Paras) (21 paras)          (1 para)
             2005-06       10464.600     190.273     159.473           30.80
                                       (47 Paras)   29 Paras)        (18 pars)
                                           72.54      61.43            11.11
              2006-07          9997.18
                                         (9 paras)   4 paras         (5 paras)
                                                                       0.480
                                            9.52         9.04
              2007-08         7491.96
                                          (9 paras)    (6 paras)
                                                                     (3 Paras)
                                           209.53                      209.53
              2008-09                                      0
                              7868.42     (9 paras)                  (9 Paras)
                 Total       6023.129     1960.857     1707.287       253.570

Special Audit:

Independent audit of VSS. related to Financial Management: As suggested by the World
Bank during Mid Term Review, audit of expenditure of 5% of the VSSs was carried out
through Chartered Accountant Forms engaged exclusively for this purpose. The observations
of this audit and action taken thereon are detailed in the annexure. This audit routine
procedural lapses all of which were rectified and a 100% check of the books of accounts of
all VSSs was carried out through the Internal Audit wing of the APFD. Details of these are
annexed.



                                             46
Internal Audit: As suggested by the World Bank, audit of VSS expenditure on a half yearly
basis for 20% of the VSSs at a time is being done. This provides for immediate action if any
inconsistencies are noticed.



6. Initiatives:

Policy development: All actions agreed for policy reforms have been taken. A statement
detailing progress in this regard is given in annexure.

Policy reforms on Community Forest Management: The Government of Andhra Pradesh
through G O Ms. No. 13 EFS&T (For III) Department, dated 12.02.2002 as amended vide
G.O. Ms.4 EFS&T (For III) Department, dated 12-01-2004 have issued comprehensive
orders for implementing Community Forest Management in the state as an advancement over
Joint Forest Management duly addressing issues relating to gender, inclusion of vulnerable
groups, transparency in transactions, duties and responsibilities, usufruct sharing,
administrative decentralization and sustainability. The institution of VSS now has a strong
managing committee of 15 committed members of whom 8 are women. It also has a vice
chairperson in addition to chairperson with one of them being a woman. This has ensured a
steady but sure empowerment of women in the scheme of things.

Policy reforms on benefit sharing arrangement: At the time of Project launch, the policy on
CFM entailed only incremental benefits to the participating communities. As discussed and
agreed during Project negotiations detailed consultations were held with various stakeholders
and the policy on CFM to the extent of entitlement of benefits and benefit sharing
arrangements was revised through G O Ms. No. 4 EFES&T (For III) Dept Dt. 12.1.2004. In
terms of this policy reform VSSs are entitled to the following forest produce obtained from
forests managed by them:

a) All Non-timber Forest Produce.
b) All Intermediate yielding obtained from silvicultural operations in natural forests;
c) All timber and bamboo (including yield from bamboo plantations) harvested from the
    forest managed by them except in case of plantations;
d) In case of teak plantations within VSS area, whose age is known, twice the proportionate
    yield harvested (including yield from thinning) with reference to age of the plantation and
    the period of maintenance by the Vana Samrakshana Samithi (maximum entitlement will
    not however exceed the total yield of the plantations)

                                               47
e) In case of other plantations, whose age is known, 50% of harvest (including thinning) of
   the period of management of plantation by Vana Samrakshana Samithi is less than 50%
   of the rotation period and 100% of volume harvested is such period of management by
   the Vana Samrakshana Samithi is more than 50% of rotation period of the plantation.
f) All the timber obtained from second and subsequent rotations of all plantations.
   However this entitlement is subject to carrying out all silvicultural operations including
harvesting in accordance with the silvicultural principles laid down in the respective Working
Plans and schedule detailed in respective micro plans of the Vana Samrakshana Samithi and
adopting rotation age and rotation period (where relevant) as prescribed in the respective
Working Plans.

   The benefit thus accrued shall be passed on to the Vana Samrakshana Samithi as
prescribed below:

       i)      Domestic requirement of the forest products will be set apart and distributed
               among all the V.S.S. members as per the norms evolved by the Managing
               Committee. The surplus quantity may be disposed as decided by the managing
               committee.
       ii)     Any expenditure incurred by the Government on the harvesting and disposal
               shall be reimbursed to the Government.
       iii)    Expenditure necessary to sustain the productivity of the forests as per the
               micro-plan shall be deposited in the V.S.S. joint account. This amount shall
               not be less than 50% of the net income.
       iv)     Balance income shall be deposited in the V.S.S. account and utilized as per
               decisions taken by the General Body of the Vana Samrakshana Samithi.


       Further through another remarkable reform issued in G.O. Ms. No. 43, EFS&T
(For.III) Dept., Dt. 10-04-2006, GOAP have been passing on all the net revenue realised from
sale of Beedileaf collected and sold to the primary collectors. With this initiative a whopping
Rs. 39.50 crores has been realised by VSSs during the Project period.
Policy on reinvestment of surplus revenue generated: To ensure sustainable community
forest management, an element of cost sharing was envisaged while implementing the
Project. The revision of policy on benefit sharing arrangements detailed above looks into this
aspect as well as it lays down reinvestment of atleast 50% of net benefit from sale of timber
and bamboo by the VSSs. While this policy revision was made as early as 2004 itself, the

                                              48
operational mechanics evolved through a process of consultation. Since major revenue to the
VSSs is from management of pulp wood and bamboo resources, procedures for reinvestment
from these sources are now evolved and under implementation.

       As regards Bamboo sale of surplus harvest is made through traditional outlets of the
Forest Department to ensure wider participation of purchasers and competitive prices.
Saleable Bamboo from various VSSs is aggregated and sold through public auction in the
presence of VSS members. The receipts from such sale are then apportioned to the respective
VSSs basing on the quantities sold and the net revenue after deducting the expenses incurred
are then passed on. While the VSSs utilise 50% of this net revenue as a development fund
either distributing it equitably or investing in bonds and deposits, the remaining 50% is
utilised a s regeneration fund and is used for harvesting bamboos in subsequent seasons. This
procedure has been since perfected and 40 out of 88 VSSs of Kakinada Division who had
realised returns from sale of bamboo harvested have utilised the net revenue for subsequent
harvesting operations which apart from fetching further revenues, is a silvicultural necessity
to ensure good health of bamboo clumps.

       In respect of reinvestment of revenue from sale of pulp wood, an elaborate process of
developing reinvestment plans has been evolved wherein cycle of harvest, cycle of
reinvestment and corresponding details of benefit accrual and cost investment are worked out
duly following the silvicultural prescriptions of harvesting regime, post harvest operations
and plans are then drawn up. Here again sale of pulpwood is done at aggregate level with due
participation of VSSs to ensure competitive prices and the benefit accrued is passed on to the
respective VSSs basing on the actual removals. To ensure such aggregation and technical
support for reinvestment planning and implementation all the VSSs of a Division are required
to join the respective Forest development Agency as members. Since most of harvesting and
reinvestment have been happening in Nellore Division the FDA Nellore now has membership
of all the VSSs in its geographical area. So far 42 out of 92 VSSs that have realised revenue
from harvest and sale of Eucalyptus and Casurina Pulp wood have reinvested a part of the
regeneration fund and raised 207 ha of plantations.

       Similarly the cluster involved in manufacture and sale of adda leaf plates and
agarabatti sticks are also reinvesting net revenue realised from sale of value added products to
continue the business.




                                              49
       The initiative of reinvestment is species specific and activity specific. Modalities have
been evolved and are now in operation. Though the number of VSSs actually reinvesting
revenue are seemingly few, the process has begun and the Project has successfully
established replicable models.

Legal status to VSSs and Community Forest Management: As an initiative to empower the
communities involved in participatory forest management, legal status was sought to be
accorded to the VSS by amending the A.P. Forest Act 1967. The GOAP has consulted the
GOI on the proposals of the Forest Department of amending the AP Forest Act 1967 by
inserting a separate chapter on Community Forest Management. The Draft bill has been sent
to the GOAP for amending the A.P. Forest Act, providing legal status to the VSS.

       In the meantime, the GOAP have decided to invoke the provisions of the Forest
Rights Act 2005 of identification of Community Rights of the Communities that have
requested for the same for the purpose of Conservation and sustainable management of forest
resources. Accordingly Community Rights have been recognised in respect of VSSs with
100% tribal membership for conservation and sustainable development of forest resources
within the framework of GOAPs policy on Community Forest Management.

       The remaining VSSs are being brought under the ambit of Forest Development
Agencies that are registered under the A P Societies Act 2001. Further three Division level
federations (in Visakhapatnam, Narsipatnam and Paderu Divisions) dealing with trade in
Adda leaf plates have also been registered under the A P Societies Act 2001 and one
Federation of CEGS (sub group of VSSs) involved in conversion and marketing of Bamboo
products (agarabatti sticks) is in the process of being registered as a Producers Company
under the Companys Act.

Decentralization of planning and financial management: The Government during January
2004 have amended the AP Forest Department Code providing for direct funding to VSSs
without routing the funds through Forest Range Officers. This amendment has come on
account of a study conducted under the APCFM Project. This while addressing the workload
on the implementing staff has ensured enhanced awareness and participation of the VSSs in
financial transaction. This amendment ensures that the cashbook of the VSS is the primary
cashbook of the Forest Department. Thus the financial responsibility is now with the VSSs.
There is clarity in the role and responsibility of VSS and Forest Department and this ensures
decentralization and transparency.

                                              50
Reforms to VSS structure: The structure of VSSs of envisaged at the time of Project launch
had emerged during JFM phase. CFM initiative brought in certain improvements especially
in gender issues. With commencement of flow of benefits and usufruct to the VSSs a need
was felt to look carefully into the structure and functioning of the VSSs especially with
regard to profile of membership. Experience has brought out that heterogeneity of
membership of VSSs in terms of economic profile, degree of forest dependence, extent of
participation in protection and management of forests, viewed in the context of
commencement of benefit flow is likely to complicate matters in the coming years and
conflicting relations are likely to emerge on account of these. Thus there is a need to address
these issues adequately and at the earliest. To ensure livelihood enhancement of forest
dependent families to development and management of forest based enterprise certain
reforms to the structure within VSSs emerged.

       The structure revolves around a set of institutions that operate at village, cluster and
division levels. Common Enterprise Groups (CEGs) at the village level, federations of CEGs
at Cluster level and a society or Producer Company at Division (aggregated) level have
emerged.

       While the CEGs are informal groups of primary collector and agent for value
additions to forest produce, the Clusters provide the required infrastructure, goods and
services. The society/producer company take care of marketing arrangements.

Revision and implementation of R & R Policy: During negotiations held with the World
Bank on the Project clearance, it was decided to revise the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Policy and Resettlement Action Plan documents as agreed to by the GOAP. Accordingly the
revised draft R&R policy and RAP were furnished to the World Bank and as suggested by the
World Bank on 1-5-2003, the revised R&R Policy and RAP were put for series of
consultations with all the stakeholders, particularly with VSS communities, during May to
August, 2003, at Range/Division/Circle and State Level. Based on the outcome of these
consultations, the R&R Policy and RAP have been revised and sent to the World Bank for
approval. The World Bank has approved the revised RAP and R&R Policy and requested the
Government to notify these documents superseding the existing orders. The Government,
have notified the revised Resettlement Action Plan and Rehabilitation and Resettlement
Policy documents vide G.O.Ms.No.68 EFS&T(FOR-III) Department dt. 25-5-2004.



                                              51
Consequent to issue of this revised policy, implementation of Resettlement Action Plan has
been taken up and completed.

       As agreed during Project negotiations, the Government of AP vide G.O.Ms. No.100
EF&ST (For-III) Department dated-11-11-2002 constituted an Independent Advisory Group
at State level under AP Community Forest Management Project for advising on Resettlement
Action Plan implement by AP Forest Department. This groups comprising one Judicial
member, one forestry specialist, one academician and two members from civil society have
been meeting regularly and visiting the areas where the R&R policy and action plans drawn
thereupon are under implementation and monitoring their implementation. Details of
suggestions made by the IAG and action taken thereupon are furnished in the annexure.

Initiatives in Capacity Building and development of Social Capital: The Project has laid
ample stress on Capacity building of various stake holders including those from the
participating communities and various service providers such as Forestry staff, NGOS and
Community Extension Workers (CEWs). Initial phase of the Project supported training in
Social mobilization, Conflict resolution, Microplaning, Participatory Rural Appraisal,
Watershed development activities through Soil and Moisture Conservation measures, Nursery
and Plantation techniques etc.

       Revision of the policy on financial management by VSSs that was introduced around
2004 necessitated building capacity among the VSSs in book keeping. Three educated youth
from each VSS were trained along with the respective CEWs in book keeping skills such as
maintenance of cash books, minutes and resolution registers etc.

       By the mid-term review with enhanced focus on livelihood concerns of the target
group, training activities were reoriented towards development and implementation of
Livelihood Enhancement (Development) Plans as opposed to routine microplans, value
addition, development of enterprises, formation of Common Enterprise Groups and their
federations at Cluster levels, marketing issues, quality control issues, skill enhancement in
processing (forest) raw materials such as agarabatti stick making, adda leaf plate making
(these were new skills to the target groups) etc.

       All these initiatives needed development of human capital to sustain community
participation in the longer run. A four months certificate course was designed for promoting
a cadre of Community Silviculturists with adequate training in core forestry issues coupled


                                               52
with livelihood planning and monitoring aspects. The AP Forest Academy emerge as training
hub for these trainings and in three batches 54 youth have been trained in professional
forestry and forest based livelihoods management. This training included class room lectures,
field visits and project work. This human capital was subsequently utilized in conducting
House Hold Survey to assess the Project impacts on livelihoods.

       The project supported supplementing infrastructure in the AP Forest Academy at
Dulapalli with addition of a hostel and an Indoor Stadium which also provides ample space
for conducting workshops. It supported enhancement of infrastructure in 14 Central Nurseries
to enable them function as Technology Dissemination Centres. These TDCs function as
training hubs at district level and cater to the training needs of the neighbouring Divisions.
Training to cutting edge staff and VSS members are organised in these centres. Project
supported a Training Coordinator for each Division (in addition to the TDCs) to assist the
Project staff in all matters of Capacity Building and Monitoring.

       An autonomous Society viz Centre for Forest Resources and Natural Resources
Management (CEFNARM) emerged by 2007(which functions from the premises of the AP
forest Academy, Dulapalli) to carry forward the training and capacity building initiatives of
the Project and to expand them to other similar schemes and Projects and to other
Departments and NGOs. This Society, apart from coordinating and spear heading training
programmes, also has mandate for conducting action research and coordinating activities of
Research, Extension and Information Technology wing within the APFD. It has been
recognised by the GOI for conducting some of its training programmes and workshops.
Constitution of CEFNARM as an autonomous institution and its activities has ensured an
element of sustainability to the initiatives of capacity building and development of social
capital in forestry sector in Andhra Pradesh.



7. Compliance to operational Directives

       The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement mention four
Operational Directives that are mandatory and are required to be complied for successful
completion of this Project. They are ­ (i) Directive on involuntary resettlement, (ii) Directive
on Indigenous People, (iii) Environmental management and (iv) Pest management. Following
is an account of compliance to each of these directives:


                                                53
Directive on involuntary resettlement: During negotiations held with the World Bank on
the Project clearance, it was decided to revise the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy and
Resettlement Action Plan documents. Accordingly the revised draft R&R policy and RAP
were furnished to the World Bank and as suggested by the World Bank on 1-5-2003, the
revised R&R Policy and RAP were put for series of consultations with all the stakeholders,
particularly with VSS communities, during May to August, 2003, at Range/Division/Circle
and State Level. Based on the outcome of these consultations, the R&R Policy and RAP
have been revised and sent to the World Bank for approval. The World Bank has approved
the revised RAP and R&R Policy and requested the Government to notify these documents
superseding the existing orders. The Government, notified the revised Resettlement Action
Plan and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy documents vide G.O.Ms.No.68
EFS&T(FOR-III) Department dt. 25-5-2004. With this implementation of Resettlement
Action Plan commenced. The revised R&R Policy focused elaborately on the issue of loss of
livelihoods of those who were into Podu cultivation (a form of shifting cultivation) in notified
Government Forests and who had given up such individual occupations in favour of
community management of those forests by the VSSs. All the VSSs were surveyed with
reference to likelihood of triggering of R&R policy. Joint teams comprising NGOs, Forest
and Tribal Welfare Officials visited VSSs where R&R issue was likely and Project Affected
Families were identified in Gramasabhas. The podu lands surrendered by these PAFs where
surveyed using GPS and documented. Only those individuals who had given up podu lands I
that were now under management by VSSs were identified and listed as eligible to receive
benefits under the R&R Policy. Lists of these PAFs were notified in news papers to call for
objections if any and to ensure that no eligible was left out.

       Village specific RAPs were then prepared by NGOs in due consultation with PAFs
and keeping the viability of the schemes opted. While R&R grant provided was Rs. 25,000/-
per PAF efforts were also made to dovetail other Government programmes and where
needed, institutional funding was also arranged. Elaborate training programmes were
organised for PAFs, VSS members, NGOs and Forest Officials involved in implementation
of RAP. RAP has been successfully implemented in 430 VSSs covering 12528 PAFs with an
outlay of Rs. 3370.595 lakhs with the help of 84 NGOs. A detailed account of RAP is given
in the annexure giving various steps taken in identification of PAFs, identification of
schemes, planning, implementation and monitoring. The impact of processes of planning,



                                                54
implementation and monitoring RAP has been evaluated by an independent agency, the
report of which is shared with the Mission.

Indigenous People's development Plan: The Social and Environmental Assessment
undertaken during Project preparation identified that Project implementation is likely to
trigger World Banks Operational Directive dealing with indigenous People. A separate
policy and action plan was drawn as part of the Project implementation in this regard. This
action plan aimed more on coordination with various Government and Non Governmental
Organizations involved in Tribal Welfare in addition to supplementing VSS level community
infrastructure and income generation activities.   In the course of implementation of the AP
CFM Project, by the Mid Term Review, certain new initiatives were taken and these include
identifying user groups or common enterprise groups among VSSs from among tribal
members and developing their networks and federations at various levels. These common
enterprise groups and federations planned and took up value addition of certain forest
commodities like bamboo, Adda leaf, Tamarind, Honey etc. Subsequently Community based
Ecotourism also was added to this list of enterprises. In certain villages around Hyderabad
where the women belonging to Lambada Community are more in number, refining their
native skills embroidery activity with market tie up also was initiated in close association
with the Centre for Peoples Forestry, an NGO. The Tribal Development Plans were thus
revised as Livelihood Enhancement Plans focusing on income generation and enterprise
management as listed above. Details of economic benefits derived from various enterprises
are given in the annexure.

       Apart from direct intervention as above, all the vulnerable groups involved in
implementation of the Project have benefited from the GOAPs policy on Community Forest
Management through automatic membership to SCs and STs has in that they could have
uninhibited access to forest resources for meeting their domestic needs (the participatory
evaluation revealed that 94% of the VSSs enjoyed improved access to forest resources for
their domestic use), and the GOAPs policy on benefit sharing also has benefited tribals and
other vulnerable groups adequately. The Household Survey conducted as part of Projects
impact assessment reveals that members of VSSs belonging to SC and ST community have
benefited more than the others from project interventions. Further the performance of VSSs
with predominantly tribal membership is far superior than the performance of other VSSs. All
these go to prove that the Project has substantially benefited tribal members of VSSs and
other vulnerable groups.

                                              55
       Further with implementation of Forest Rights Act 2005, VSSs with 100% tribal
membership now enjoy Community Rights over the Forests managed by them for the purpose
of conservation and sustainable management of these forest resources. Thus the operational
directives on Indigenous Peoples development are fully implemented.

Environment Management Plan: This being a Forestry project aiming at poverty reduction,
essentially had no issues with environment. However the Environmental management plan
prepared as part of Project document sought to maximise the benefits from forest
management. While the details of forest management practices undertaken in this Project are
given in chapter 2 dealing with achievement by components, this chapter deals with certain
innovative environmental management practices and their impacts as detailed below:

Soil Conservation measures: Soil and Water are the most important natural resources with in
the eco-system. And they form the basis of all life. With the increasing pressure of the ever
growing human and cattle population, deforestation, erosion of soil have cumulatively
depleted the soil and its productivity .It is in this back drop that all the initiatives of forest
improvement invariably have built in provision for conservation of soil and moisture.
Execution of various soil and moisture conservation works will, apart from improving the in-
situ soil moisture regime and there by improving the soil quality, have tremendous potential
of recharging Ground water. This has long term positive impact on rural economy.

         In execution of soil and moisture conservation works the selection of proper site is
most important. For this Water Harvesting Structures (WHS) site suitability analysis was
done in a complex GIS environment and Beat wise maps for entire forest area of the state
with site suitability index for construction of various Water Harvesting Structures were
prepared. The input themes like stream network, the DEM and slope generation, the
vegetation canopy density, watershed area etc have been used for this analysis. A sample map
showing suitability index for construction of WHS of Islampur Beat of Jannaram division is
shown below.




                                               56
         This map will be used by the field staff and VSS members in selection of site for
different Water harvesting structures for the VSS areas of that Beat.

         One of the main objectives of the SMC works is to increase the ground water level.
As the forests are the main ground water recharge source, lot of SMC works were taken up in
the VSS areas. Under SMC works the construction of Check dams, Rock fill dams, digging of
Percolation tanks, Mini percolation tanks, Continuous contour trenches, Staggered contour
trenches, and sunken gully pits were taken up.

        The water holding capacity and water impounding capacity in a rainy season was
calculated based on the guide lines issued by the APFD. According to these guide lines the
SMC structures will have the following water holding capacity and water impounding
capacity in a rainy season.

S.No.   Type of SMC work      Unit       Water          holding Water           impounding
                                         capacity ( Cmt )         capacity in a rainy season
                                                                  (Cmt).


                                              57
1        Percolation tank        1 No    5000                   4 times of the holding
                                                                capacity. ( 20000)
2        Mini      percolation 1 No      2500                   4 times of the holding
         tank                                                   capacity ( 10000)
3        Rock fill dam           1 No    50                     10 times of the water
                                                                holding capacity ( 500 )
4        Check dam               1 No    2500                   4 times of the holding
                                                                capacity ( 10000 )
5        CCT                     1 Cmt   1 Cmt                  10 times of the water
                                                                holding capacity.
6        ST                      1 Cmt   1 Cmt                  10 times of the water
                                                                holding capacity.
7        Sunken gully pits.      1 No    2500                   4 times of the holding
                                                                capacity ( 10000 )



          The Ground Water department, Andhra Pradesh monitors the ground water level
through a network of 2986 observation wells distributed in different hydrogeological
formations. These wells are monitored six times a year. Based on the observations they
calculate the Net ground water availability per annum, Ground water draft for all users,
Actual balance ground water available for future use, and stage of development %, for
command and non- command area of each mandal in all districts of the state.

          Based on the stage of development %, entire area has been classified in to the
following categories.


     S.No.      Ground water category type              Stage of development %
     1          Safe                                    0 ­ 70 %
     2          Semi Critical                           71 ­ 90 %
     3          Critical                                91 ­ 100 %
     4          Over exploited                           Above 100 %



           The GIS layers of the ground water category type layer and VSS layer are analyzed
in GIS environment. The VSS areas falling under different ground water categories like Safe,

                                              58
Semi critical, Critical and Over exploited were identified. For all these VSS areas the details
of the SMC works taken up, the water holding capacity created in each VSS, and the water
impounding capacity in a rainy season are correlated with ground water category types as
follows.

Sl.   Ground water No       Water     Water          Weighted     Weighte    Water     Water
No    development     of    holding   impounde       average of d            holding   impoundin
.     category        VS    capacit   d    in   a water           average    capacit   g capacity
                      S     y         rainy          impoundin    of water y       per per VSS
                            (LCM)     season         g capacity   holding    VSS
                                      (LCM)                       capacity

1     Safe            42    5099.06 23230.67         7.293        1.599      1.211     5.517
                      11

2     Semicritical    45    212.72    1316.55        4.243        0.580      0.466     2.887
                      6

3     Critical        11    46.85     348.48         4.534        0.574      0.404     3.004
                      6

4     Overexploited   19    151.88    797.03         6.018        1.047      0.791     4.151
                      2




           Averages of 6.018 LCM of water impounding capacity in Over Exploited region,
4.534 LCM of water impounding capacity in Critical areas, 4.243 LCM of water impounding
capacity in Semi Critical areas and 1.599 LCM of water impounding capacity in safe region,
were created in a rainy season.

Fire control measures:      One of the main causes for forest degradation is forest fires. The
forest fires affect the soil fertility and causes loss of biodiversity. In the light of above fire
control assumes lot of importance. It is in this context that fire control and management have
been included as a crucial item of work in all the forest improvement activities.

        The forests of entire AP have been categorized based on the degree of hazard. Fire
Risk Zonation maps were created for entire forest area in the GIS environment based on the
factors influencing forest fires like, forest type, topography, and proximity. The inter


                                                59
relationship for these factors were established and finally integrated for identification and
Zonation of fire prone areas from lowest to highest risk. The forests of entire AP have been
categorized based on the degree of hazard like Lowest, Low, Medium, High, Higher, and
Highest. As an example map prepared for Badrachalam (South) Division is shown below.




These maps helped in selecting the locations for taking up fire control measures in the forest
areas.

     The forest fire occurrences were monitored on daily basis, by getting the fire incident
location data from the MODIS of NASA (MODIS ­MOD 14 ­ Thermal Anomalies ­ Fires
and Biomass Burning). The MODIS data of fire occurrence will have the Lat- Long position
of the fire occurred place and the intensity of the fire i.e. fire index. Using this fire incident
location data and fire index (highest, high, medium, low and lowest) data, in GIS
environment a layer was prepared. Using this forest fire layer and with the existing forest
administrative layer the exact place ( VSS name, Beat name , Section name and Range name
and Division name) of forest fire occurrence was determined in the GIS environment , and
the was communicated to the field staff for verification and further taking up fire control
measures in those areas.

     The forest fire occurrence data for the VSS areas were collected for the year 2008 and
2009 (Annexure- I), and also the details of the fire control measures taken up in those VSS
were collected (Annexure ­ II). During this period the forest fires occurred in 167 VSS areas
with different fire intensity. These fire intensities were categorised in to high, medium and
low and the VSS which fall in each of this category, and the quantity of fire control measures
taken up in all those VSS were studied.


                                               60
                                             Fire Control Measures Avg.            per
      S.No. Fire Index       No. of VSS      (Cmt)                 VSS(Cmt)

      1       High                  62              109026                 1758

      2       Medium                41                56977                1390

      3       Low                   64                56070                 876


                                    167             222073                 1330

       An average 1758 cmt of fire trenches were taken up in the High fire intensity VSS
areas, 1390 cmt of fire trenches were taken up in medium intensity VSS areas and 876 cmt of
fire trenches were taken up in Low intensity VSS areas.

Carbon sequestration studies: To assess the Carbon foot prints and sequestration details and
to explore possibilities of harvesting upcoming carbon markets two Projects were prepared as
part of the APCFM Project. The first Project encompasses the improvements made by way of
rejuvenating degraded teak forests in 34 VSSs in Jagtial Range of Karimnagar West Division
covering 5952 ha of forest area.     The carbon stock as on 2003-04 based on the base line
survey conducted as part of microplanning exercise of the APCFM Project was taken and
compared with the growth assessed during 2008-09. A total of 138 plots were surveyed, and
DBH and height of trees were recorded. The standing biomass was estimated using the data
from the sample survey. The baseline biomass (2003-04) and the standing biomass (2008-09)
were calculated using species specific volume equations. The following table gives the
biomass in terms of tonnes of Carbon per hectare in the baseline (2003-04) and the standing
biomass (2008-09).

                            Mean baseline C/Ha                21.2

                            Mean standing C/Ha                33.2

                            Difference                        12.0

                            Years                               5

                            Mean diff C/Ha per year            2.4


   To calculate the mean Volume/Ha, the mean Carbon/Ha has been used. (Given that the
calculation thus far have been carried out with the (total of above ground (AG) and below

                                             61
 ground (BG)) Carbon number in mind, this is the best approximate). For converting biomass
 into carbon, the default value of 0.5 as per IPCC Good Practice Guidance has been used.
 Similarly, 26 % of the above ground biomass has been assumed to be below ground biomass.
 To convert biomass into volume the wood density of 0.75 for teak has been used as an
 average. (IPCC average of 1.9 has been used to calculate the AG Biomass in the calculations
 instead of going the volume to biomass route using wood density)
                        Total               AG           AG
                        Carbon/Ha           Carbon/Ha    Biomass/Ha    Volume/Ha

Mean baseline                       21.2          16.8          33.7        44.9

Mean standing                       33.2          26.3          52.7        70.3

Difference                          12.0

Years                                5.0

Mean diff C/Ha per
year                                 2.4           1.9           3.8         5.1



        The second Project was developed covering Eucalyptus plantations (478 plantations) in
 137 VSS raised since 2003. Details are as below:


   Year of               Age of
   planting            Plantation          Area (ha)

        2003               5                 394.97

        2004               4                1197.25

        2005               3                 943.50

        2006               2                 984.50

        2007               1                 716.50

               Total                        4236.72


            For estimating the standing biomass, and subsequently the carbon stored, stratified
 random sampling based on year of planting and soil type was employed. For soil information,
 soil type map developed by NBSS&LUP (National Bureau of Soil Survey & Land Use
 Planning) was used. Based on discussion with officials of NBSS&LUP, the traditional soil
 classes were merged into 8 classes. The soils in the plantation area were found to fall under

                                                   62
four classes: red clayey soil, red loamy soil, black soil, and rocky and 63gravely land/soils.
However 2007 plantations (one year old plantation) were not considered while sampling. In
order to estimate the crop height, Loreys mean height equations were used; the mean height
of a quadrant was used to calculate the standing biomass of a quadrant. The average
volume/ha was calculated as the weighted average (based on area under each soil type) and
using the wood density 0.55 for Eucalyptus as below:


                   Age of Eucalyptus      Weighted average
                   plantation             of biomass (t/ha)    Volume/ha

                   2                                   14.48         26.33

                   3                                   18.36         33.39

                   4                                   24.75         44.99

                   5                                   31.97         58.13



Pest Management Plan: Yet another Operational Directive was to develop a strategy for Pest
Management. In this regard a comprehensive study on Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
practices that are required for Forestry sector in Andhra Pradesh in general and the Project
interventions in particular were developed and various stake holders including Forestry
Officials and VSS members were trained in IPM techniques and related issues. A note on the
IPM strategies evolved is detailed in the annexure.



8. Strategies for Sustainability and Follow up actions :

Convergence with National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme: Building upon the
principles of Community participation in forest management, continuing sustainable forest
management principles initiated, ensuring continuity to linkages of livelihood enhancement
and forest management established under the CFM regime, the GOAP has decided to ensure
convergence of CFM and National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(NREGS). NREGS
is a scheme being implemented by the GOI through various state Governments for
implementing the provisions of the National Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA). NREGA
primarily seeks to ensure 100 days of employment to the needy in rural areas and minimum
wages prescribed therein duly following participatory and transparent procedures. The


                                              63
essence of NREGS is participatory planning and identification of works, ensuring prescribed
minimum wages for the given work, providing atleast 100 days of employment at the door
step of the wage seeker, transparent implementation and disbursement arrangements and
independent evaluation or social audit. The provisions of NREGA are statutory and thus
mandatory. Therefore the Government has developed robust systems for implementation of
NREGS as below:

   i.   The Government has provided adequate Budget provision and the scheme is not
        budget driven but is need based. Targets have a limited purpose of planning and
        budgeting. They are not sacrosanct and there can be variations basing on the need.
 ii.    The Government has provided ample human resources to enable planning,
        implementation and monitoring. The Government has provided human resources in
        the form of Field Assistants and Mates to mobilize Job cards for the wage seekers, to
        ensure participatory planning and identification of works, to provide worksite
        amenities, to mobilize and supervise implementation of works at worksite and to
        maintain musters and other basic worksite documents.
 iii.   The Government has provided adequate technical assistance for monitoring and
        supervision of the works in the form of Technical Assistants who apart from
        providing technical assistance, measure the work turned out and record it in the
        measurement books and assist in assessing remuneration for the work turned out.
 iv.    The Government has made arrangement for disbursement of wages through Post
        Offices, Smart Card Agencies, Banks, Village Organizations and VSSs.
  v.    To track and assist implementation of the programme, robust web enabled software
        has been developed which has an end to end application and ensures monitoring at all
        stages right from identification to disbursement. All the efforts of the implementing
        staff are oriented to field work and issues and all the office work is taken care by the
        software.
 vi.    Social audit by an independent society comprising of stakeholders ensure evaluation
        and audit and is transparent and authentic.
vii.    The Programme provides financial support to all the above in addition to
        implementation of works.



        NREGS provides an excellent platform to carry forward all the forestry activities
initiated and productive utilization of institution development taken up and human and social

                                               64
capital developed under the APCFM Project. It has now been planned to cover 6000 VSSs
(including all the 5000 VSSs that were assisted under the APCFM Project) for various types
of silvicultural interventions such as assisting natural regeneration by rejuvenation of
degraded forests with viable rootstock, management of rejuvenated forests through
appropriate silvicultural interventions such as thinning and harvesting basing on silvicultural
availability, rejuvenation of degraded bamboo forests through decongestion and management
of rejuvenated bamboo forests including selective removal of mature culms, maintenance of
existing plantations of NTFP, Pulp, Timber species, Tank foreshore and Avenue and raising
fresh plantations of these types with adequate maintenance support, Nurseries for planting in
VSS forests and for farm forestry, support to farm forestry, improvement of habitats and Soil
and Moisture Conservation works including preferential treatment to promising NTFP and
Timber species in natural stands.

       An action plan covering 5990 VSSs with an outlay of Rs. 287.91 Crores has been
prepared. Since monitoring implementation of this scheme is completely computerised,
details of all the forestry operations, details of VSSs that will be implementing these activities
have been included in the MIS developed for implementation of NREGS and implementation
of field operations has begun.

Universalization of Forest Development Agencies: Forest Development Agencies (FDAs)
have been set up at the initiative of the Government of India as institutions for
implementation of Joint Forest Management through a coordinated approach. However,
hitherto, in Andhra Pradesh, FDAs were associated only with implementation of the National
Afforestation Programme (NAP) funded by the National Afforestation and Eco-Development
Board (NAEB). The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests
Government of India however aim at FDAs as federations of Joint Forest Management
Committees (Vana Samrakshana Samithies or VSSs in Andhra Pradesh). Since in Andhra
Pradesh state, FDAs at present are associated with implementation of NAP, only those VSSs
associated with this programme have been members of FDAs sofar. Thus advantages of
federating are not available to many VSSs that are not funded under the NAP. The potential
institutional strength of FDAs is also not fully harnessed. A number of initiatives like
Community based Eco-tourism, development and management of forest and non forest based
microenterprises involving VSSs and their groups can be better served through the FDA
model. FDAs can also mobilize additional financial resources for VSSs and can provide
better market linkages.

                                               65
       In the light of this imminent and urgent need, a process of graduating FDAs as
institutions rather that treating them as a scheme or a project has been initiated. With this the
structure and configuration of FDAs will not change, but they function as institutions
covering and serving all the VSSs of a given Division irrespective of source of funding.
When and where harvesting and reinvestments become key activities of VSSs, FDAs will be
in a better position to deal with issues than at present. Action has since been taken to revise
membership of FDAs and include all VSSs within the respective jurisdiction of FDAs. The
FDAs in Kakinada and Nellore have already revised their membership and incorporated all
the VSSs within their jurisdiction as members. Others are following suit.

Reinvestment of surplus revenue for sustainable forest management: To ensure sustainable
community forest management, an element of cost sharing was envisaged while
implementing the Project. The revision of policy on benefit sharing arrangements detailed
above looks into this aspect as well as it lays down reinvestment of atleast 50% of net benefit
from sale of timber and bamboo by the VSSs. While this policy revision was made as early as
2004 itself, the operational mechanics evolved through a process of consultation. Since major
revenue to the VSSs is from management of pulp wood and bamboo resources, procedures
for reinvestment from these sources are now evolved and under implementation.

       As regards Bamboo sale of surplus harvest is made through traditional outlets of the
Forest Department to ensure wider participation of purchasers and competitive prices.
Saleable Bamboo from various VSSs is aggregated and sold through public auction in the
presence of VSS members. The receipts from such sale are then apportioned to the respective
VSSs basing on the quantities sold and the net revenue after deducting the expenses incurred
are then passed on. While the VSSs utilise 50% of this net revenue as a development fund
either distributing it equitably or investing in bonds and deposits, the remaining 50% is
utilised a s regeneration fund and is used for harvesting bamboos in subsequent seasons. This
procedure has been since perfected and 40 out of 88 VSSs of Kakinada Division who had
realised returns from sale of bamboo harvested have utilised the net revenue for subsequent
harvesting operations which apart from fetching further revenues, is a silvicultural necessity
to ensure good health of bamboo clumps.

       In respect of reinvestment of revenue from sale of pulp wood, an elaborate process of
developing reinvestment plans has been evolved wherein cycle of harvest, cycle of
reinvestment and corresponding details of benefit accrual and cost investment are worked out

                                               66
duly following the silvicultural prescriptions of harvesting regime, post harvest operations
and plans are then drawn up. Here again sale of pulpwood is done at aggregate level with due
participation of VSSs to ensure competitive prices and the benefit accrued is passed on to the
respective VSSs basing on the actual removals. To ensure such aggregation and technical
support for reinvestment planning and implementation all the VSSs of a Division are required
to join the respective Forest development Agency as members. Since most of harvesting and
reinvestment have been happening in Nellore Division the FDA Nellore now has membership
of all the VSSs in its geographical area. So far 42 out of 92 VSSs that have realised revenue
from harvest and sale of Eucalyptus and Casurina Pulp wood have reinvested a part of the
regeneration fund and raised 207 ha of plantations.

       Similarly the cluster involved in manufacture and sale of adda leaf plates and
agarabatti sticks are also reinvesting net revenue realised from sale of value added products to
continue the business.

       The initiative of reinvestment is species specific and activity specific. Modalities have
been evolved and are now in operation. Though the number of VSSs actually reinvesting
revenue are seemingly few, the process has begun and the Project has successfully
established replicable models.

Institutional support to Forest Enterprises: The Project has supported substantially a
number of initiatives of promoting forest and non forest based enterprises. Of all the
enterprises, the most successful ones are ,,converting bamboo into agarabatti sticks and
,,addaleaf plate making. There are other enterprises such as Vermicomposting, Pisciculture
(in Percolation tanks), Community based Ecotourism which also are doing well. Forest
Enterprises have been promoted under this Project in order to ensure income generation to the
poor and needy members of VSSs whose dependence on forests is relatively more than others
and also to maximise income from forest products coming from the harvest by the VSSs.
Agarabatti sticks have been fetching an revenue of around Rs. 24000 per tonne against Rs.
1500 per tonne if the same bamboo was supplied to Paper Industries as pulp wood. The
benefit of such value addition is harnessed by the poor members of the VSSs who have been
organised as CEGs and who operate through Clusters. Similarly adda leaf plate making
intervention has nearly doubled the income at household level of the primary leaf collectors.
This enhancement in income from plate making has been result of simple intervention of
teaching the tribal women, the skill of stitching leaves that they normally collect and sell in

                                              67
raw form into leafplates. To ensure sustainability of these enterprises, it was felt essential to
organise the institutions involved on a sound legal footing with adequate transparency and
accountability. The adda leaf clusters have been organised into Societies and registered under
the AP Societies Registration Act 2001. 3 such Societies in Paderu, Narsipatnam and
Visakhapatnam have been registered. As regards agarabatti activity, the Clusters involved
along with CEGs and all the members are organised as a Producer Company and being
registered under the Company Registration Act.


        The VSS members of Tiryani and Asifabad who have been involved in
producing Agarbathi sticks from bamboo, Bamboo articles/handicrafts, bamboo
charcoal and Bamboo furniture have resolved to form forest produce Producer
Company and get it registered with Regional office of companies.

        To facilitate the registration of the company a company's Secretary was
consulted who has prepared the Memorandum of Association and Articles of
Association (Bye- laws) of the producer company. As per Memorandum of
Association, the main objectives of the company are as follows:

    1. To undertake cultivation, production, harvesting, procurement, cutting, pooling,
        handling, marketing and selling of Bamboo, Bamboo furniture and Agarbathi
        sticks and other bamboo products for the benefit of members.
    2. To provide education on the principle of mutual assistance to its members.
    3. To render technical services, consultancy services, training, research and
        development and all other activities for the promotion of the interests of its
        members.
    4. To undertake insurance of its members or their produce.
    5. To promote techniques of mutuality and mutual assistance.
    6. To undertake welfare measures or facilities for the benefit of its members.
    7. To provide financing of procurement, processing, marketing, extending credit
       facilities or financial services to its members.

    For the incorporation of Producer Company the following are required

    1. Identification of the name of the producer company.
    2. Membership of the eligible persons (minimum 10)

                                               68
    3. Directors shall be minimum of five and not more than fifteen.
    4. Apply the DIN (Director Identification Number) to proposed Directors.
    5. Apply for Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) for one Director.

       After getting all the above, apply for name availability to Regional office of
companies. After getting the name, need to file Memorandum of Association and
Articles of Association with ROC for issue of certificates of incorporation.

       For Tiryani forest produce producer company (12) members, who are required
to be literate, have been identified. From out of this (5) Directors have been identified.
After getting the DIN to proposed directors and DSC for one Director, along with
Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association application have been filed
on 17/03/2010 with ROC for incorporation of the producer company.


       The other enterprises including Community based Ecotourism, Pisciculture,
Vermicomposting and marketing of Bamboo and Pulp wood (of Eucalyptus and Casurina) are
being done under the aegis of Forest development Agencies which are registered as Societies
under the A P Societies Registration Act 2001.

Vana Samakhya as arm of the Civil Society: Vanasamakhya is a State level federation of
VSSs networks nurtured and promoted by Centre for Peoples Forestry (CPF). Sustained
efforts of CPF and its partner NGOs from 1998 to 2000 led to the formation of strong VSS
networks at the Range and Section levels. The local networks came together to form a State
level federation in 2002, which was registered as Vanasamakhya under the Societies Act in
2003. The local Vanasamakhyas, a federation of VSSs in a Range, represents the concerns of
the VSS at the local level. The State Vanasamakhya represents the concerns of the local
Vanasamakhyas at the State and National fora. The Executive Committee of State
Vanasamakhya consists of 11 members with adequate representation from different
communities as well as equal gender representation. The Executive Committee also is
responsible for undertaking activities of Vanasamakhya as an organisation. Currently, 33
local networks representing 429 VSSs are member networks of the State Vanasamakhya.

       Vanasamakhya works to achieve its goal of promoting sustainable forest development
by strengthening VSSs towards sustainable management of forest resources and promoting
sustainable forest-based livelihood activities to people dependent on forests for their


                                               69
sustenance and with the objectives of promoting peoples participation in the functioning of
VSS and local networks; to give prominence to women, tribal communities, Dalits and poor
in all forest-related activities, development activities and promote their livelihoods. It is
evolving as an arm of the civil society with its roots in the organization of VSSs and has all
the prospects of ensuring liason between the Forest Department, Civil Society Organizations
and other Community based Organizations. The manner in which this organization is
evolving provides a hope for ensuring sustainability for Community Forest Management
through social and environmental activism since it can be a pressure for ensuring social
accountability in Community Forest Management.


9. Project Impacts:

   The developmental objective of the Project is to reduce rural poverty through improved
forest management with community participation. There is focus on both forest improvement
and community participation in achieving this objective. While CFM as a concept is a
process rather than an event, it is a further evolution of JFM that was started a decade ago
which itself was a major paradigm shift in forest management in India. CFM initiative sought
to address issues of gender and of vulnerable sections more clearly than its JFM counterpart.
It also attempts to institutionalize self reliance of VSS as an institution for ensuring
sustainable forest management in the long term and clarifies role of forester as facilitator
rather than implementer which is urgently needed especially in the light of escalation work
pressure and shift in focus of forest management. This Project being a major instrument for
implementation of these changes has contributed a lot to ensure the same.

Given below is a brief account of the impact documented:

Overview of Impact: The development objective of the project is "to reduce rural poverty
through improved forest management with community participation". Although considerable
benefits to rural livelihood have been made through the wage employment to rehabilitate
degraded forest resources and plant plantations it is the revenue earned from the creation of
forest assets that will help ensure the sustainable long-term enhanced livelihood of the
communities.

       Although major benefits and impacts will accrue beyond the project period, there is
still significant impact contributing to the achievement of the project objective at this point:


                                                70
Impact on Forests through treatment practices:

       Forest treatment is an important component of the Project and accounts for 58.19 %
of the Project outlay. This component and its activities are key to achieving the development
objective while the tone and tenor of all the activities of other components also are associated
with this component and its activities in one way or the other. Activities here include
rejuvenation of degraded forests of the VSSs through a series of treatment practices,
replacement of misc scrub forests with productive plantations, preferential treatment to
promising NTFP and Timber species, soil and moisture conservation works to prevent run off
and enhance forest productivity. Support of Applied Research and Extension and Monitoring
through IT enabled services also was made available to the Project implementing authorities
and participating communities.

       Achievement made in the area of treatment of forests for their improvement is
substantial. Infact as against the Project target of treating 315,800 ha, an area of 345,259 ha
was treated which represents 109% achievement. Out of this area treated by way of
improving productivity of natural regeneration is as high as 244,603 ha (70.85% of the area
treated). Since productivity enhancement and income realisation through pulp wood
plantations has been demonstrated to be very high as much as 57112 ha of plantations have
been raised through artificial regeneration technique. The major species here are Eucalyptus
clones (13459 ha representing 23% of the area covered by artificial regeneration). The
remaining being Pongamia, Casurina and a host of NTFP species. Returns from Eucalyptus
clones is very impressive in as much as these clones have yielded upto 60 tonnes of
pulpwood per ha as against an average of 10 tonnes from plantations of seed origin. These
plantations alone have an average productive potential of Rs.2400 lakh annually.

       Rejuvenation of Bamboo forests that has occurred over an area of 42944 ha as against
the Project target of 50,000 ha is also a significant achievement. In the VSSs in Adilabad
Circle utilizing the Bamboo poles coming on account of decongestion operations for
converting them into Agarabatti sticks. Since congestion of these Bamboo clumps had put
these poles under tremendous stress and competition for nutrition, as a natural phenomena,
these culms (poles) are sturdy with very little lumen and consequently yield of Agarabatti
sticks is quite high from these compared to the culms growing under more favourable
conditions. Thus operations in these forests, apart from improving the condition of the crop



                                              71
and future potential yield from them also have become a source for quick short term revenues
from ancillary activity of Agarabatti stick making.

       Highlight of the Projects achievement is raising 57712 ha of high quality plantations
of Eucalyptus clones, Bamboo, Pongamia and NTFP grafts of Emblica, Tamarind etc. This is
as against the Project gtarget of 10,800 ha. In fact a plantation of Eucalyptus clones in
Khammam District that was raised during the JFM phase was harvested during 2005-06 and
the yield obtained was a whopping 70 tonnes per ha compared to 10 tonnes per ha that was
being obtained from traditional plantations of Eucalyptus hybrid. These plantations bear
tremendous potential for sustainability of the Project initiatives in the years to come.

       The various clonal multi location trials raised have potential of emerging as gene
banks of high yielding potential and are ex situ conservation sites as well as sources of plant
material for further extension.

Impact on improvement in vegetation cover: Independent studies made by National
Remoting Sensing Agency and by the Geomatic Information Centre of AP Forest Department
in 20 VSS forest areas has shown significant positive impact on the vegetative cover
consequent to implementation of Participatory Forestry Management in general and AP
Community Forestry Management Project in particular. The study by the NRSA, Hyderabad
has reported as follows:

       ...Based on the study involving multispectral remote sensing and GIS techniques to
assess the change in VSS areas following conclusions could be drawn.

               Barren and scrub areas have shown clear addition of forest cover in at least
               one third of VSS area out of the total. Prominent among them showing
               increase of vegetation were Line Thanda (53.9ha), Mahaveerthanda (36.7ha),
               Irukuvalasa (19.2ha), Gadela (29.8ha), Gaddiganapally (14.3ha) and
               Nallavelly (39.6ha).
               In general vegetation within the VSS limits has been preserved intact and has
               shown no degradation trend as such. This in itself can be a sizeable
               accomplishment especially in view of pressures prevail in forest edge areas.
               Majority among the rest showed improvement in terms of increase in crown
               density within existing forest canopy and fresh plantation activities. Among



                                               72
               them Dhantalpally (15.3 ha), Behrunguda (13.1ha) Indarpur-SC (16 ha)
               Vanjavarigumpu figured prominent. .....
               Some smaller patches in particular VSS areas have also shown removal of
               vegetation as illustrated in Ambuka (1.0ha) and Indrapur-SC (0.6ha).
               Considerable portion of the positive changes accrued are due to planting
               activities taken up in 2004 and 2005 planting seasons. These activities showed
               up as removal of vegetation at places in satellite data at the first instance, later
               confirmed from ground as removal of vegetation for planting purpose.
               General increase of crown density was found mainly due to resurgence
               pioneers like bamboo (Kothrupadu) Xylia, Anogeissus (Tatiwada), Teak
               (Mahaveertanda, Linethanda), red sanders mixed (Gadela) in protected areas.
               Strict protection regimes implemented in VSS areas seems to have drastically
               brought down the illicit cutting and aided stock improvement. Middle
               infrared-based combination could enhance such cases and interpretation
               carried out to capture it......."



       Further analysis through Remote Sensing by the Geomatics wing of the AP Forest
Department has revealed an improvement of forest cover from lower density classes to higher
density classes. Following matrix explains these observations conclusively.

  Year/area in Ha     Dense forest        Open forest        Scrub forest        Others

  1996                16.144%             28.259%            40.249%             14.648%

  2000                20.816%             35.376%            35.442%             8.264%

  2006                25.457%             38.578%            31.098%             4.865%




While the above data testifies vegetation improvement in the state of Andhra Pradesh in
general, following matrix outlines productivity enhancement in the Project area (area covered
by APCFM Project):

Year          Dense         Open           Scrub         Volume in Volume in Volume in
              (lakh ha)     (lakh ha)      (lakh ha)     Dense          Open          Scrub


                                                   73
                                                         (lakh cum)    (lakh cum)     (lakh cum)
1996          1.46          2.47           3.72          87.04         72.12          49.51
2002          1.73          3.38           3.38          102.98        98.67          42.97
2006          2.15          3.61           2.75          128.05        105.57         36.56



Note: Volume per ha is taken as 59.58 cum in sense forests, 29.21 cum in open forests and
13.31 cum in scrub forests (Source Andhra Pradesh State Forest Inventory (APFD sources)

Impact of Soil and Moisture Conservation Works: Soil and Water are the most important
natural resources with in the eco-system. And they form the basis of all life. With the
increasing pressure of the ever growing human and cattle population , deforestation , erosion
of soil have cumulatively depleted the soil and its productivity .It is in this back drop that all
the initiatives of forest improvement invariably have built in provision for conservation of
soil and moisture. Execution of various soil and moisture conservation works will, apart from
improving the in-situ soil moisture regime and there by improving the soil quality, have
tremendous potential of recharging Ground water. This has long term positive impact on rural
economy.

         In execution of soil and moisture conservation works the selection of proper site is
most important. For this Water Harvesting Structures (WHS) site suitability analysis was
done in a complex GIS environment and Beat wise maps for entire forest area of the state
with site suitability index for construction of various Water Harvesting Structures were
prepared. The input themes like stream network, the DEM and slope generation, the
vegetation canopy density, watershed area etc have been used for this analysis. One of the
main objectives of the SMC works is to increase the ground water level. As the forests are the
main ground water recharge source, lot of SMC works were taken up in the VSS areas. Under
SMC works the construction of Check dams, Rock fill dams, digging of Percolation tanks,
Mini percolation tanks, Continuous contour trenches, Staggered contour trenches, and sunken
gully pits were taken up.

       The water holding capacity and water impounding capacity in a rainy season was
calculated based on the guide lines issued by the Prl.Chief Conservator of Forests vide
Circular No.5/2002/PMU-I/3 which was issued based on the discussions held with Sri
T.Hanumantha Rao, Chairman, Technical Committee, Water Conservation Mission, Andhra


                                                  74
Pradesh. According to these guide lines the SMC structures will have the following water
holding capacity and water impounding capacity in a rainy season. It is verify interesting to
note that addressing the grave concerns if overexploitation of ground water, the Project has
contributed substantially to recharge of ground water especially in critical zones of its
exploitation. Averages of 6.018 LCM of water impounding capacity in Over Exploited
region, 4.534 LCM of water impounding capacity in Critical areas, 4.243 LCM of water
impounding capacity in Semi Critical areas and 1.599 LCM of water impounding capacity in
safe region, were created in a rainy season.

Fire control measures: One of the main causes for forest degradation is forest fires. The
forest fires affect the soil fertility and causes loss of biodiversity. In the light of above fire
control assumes lot of importance. It is in this context that fire control and management have
been included as a crucial item of work in all the forest improvement activities. Continuous
Contour Trenches were specially designed to act as fire barriers. An overlaying of
information of fire occurrence and amount of trench work done reveals the preparedness set
up by the Project to address damages due to fire in the event of its occurrence as can be
appreciated from the fact that an average 1758 cmt of fire trenches were taken up in the High
fire intensity VSS areas, 1390 cmt of fire trenches were taken up in medium intensity VSS
areas and 876 cmt of fire trenches were taken up in Low intensity VSS areas.

Effect on Carbon sequestration: To assess the Carbon foot prints and sequestration details
and to explore possibilities of harvesting upcoming carbon markets two Projects were
prepared as part of the APCFM Project. The first Project encompasses the improvements
made by way of rejuvenating degraded teak forests in 34 VSSs in Jagtial Range of
Karimnagar West Division covering 5952 ha of forest area. The carbon stock as on 2003-04
based on the base line survey conducted as part of micro-planning exercise of the APCFM
Project was taken and compared with the growth assessed during 2008-09. A total of 138
plots were surveyed, and DBH and height of trees were recorded. The standing biomass was
estimated using the data from the sample survey. The baseline biomass (2003-04) and the
standing biomass (2008-09) were calculated using species specific volume equations. The
following table gives the biomass in terms of tonnes of Carbon per hectare in the baseline
(2003-04) and the standing biomass (2008-09).




                                               75
                             Mean baseline C/Ha             21.2

                             Mean standing C/Ha             33.2

                             Difference                     12.0

                             Years                          5

                             Mean diff C/Ha per year        2.4


   To calculate the mean Volume/Ha, the mean Carbon/Ha has been used. (Given that the
calculation thus far have been carried out with the (total of above ground (AG) and below
ground (BG)) Carbon number in mind, this is the best approximate). For converting biomass
into carbon, the default value of 0.5 as per IPCC Good Practice Guidance has been used.
Similarly, 26 % of the above ground biomass has been assumed to be below ground biomass.
To convert biomass into volume the wood density of 0.75 for teak has been used as an
average. (IPCC average of 1.9 has been used to calculate the AG Biomass in the calculations
instead of going the volume to biomass route using wood density)


                                  Total             AG Carbon AG Biomass Volume
                                  Carbon /Ha        /Ha       /Ha        /Ha

    Mean baseline                 21.2              16.8          33.7        44.9
    Mean standing                 33.2              26.3          52.7        70.3
    Difference                    12.0
    Years                         5.0
    Mean diff C / Ha per year     2.4               1.9           3.8         5.1


    The second Project was developed covering Eucalyptus plantations (478 plantations) in
137 VSS raised since 2003. Details are as below:


                      Year of             Age of
                      planting            Plantation       Area (ha)
                      2003                5                394.97

                      2004                4                1197.25

                      2005                3                943.50

                      2006                2                984.50


                                               76
                       2007                1                716.50

                       Total                                4236.72


         For estimating the standing biomass, and subsequently the carbon stored, stratified
random sampling based on year of planting and soil type was employed. For soil information,
soil type map developed by NBSS&LUP (National Bureau of Soil Survey & Land Use
Planning) was used. Based on discussion with officials of NBSS&LUP, the traditional soil
classes were merged into 8 classes. The soils in the plantation area were found to fall under
four classes: red clayey soil, red loamy soil, black soil, and rocky and 77gravely land/soils.
However 2007 plantations (one year old plantation) were not considered while sampling. In
order to estimate the crop height, Loreys mean height equations were used; the mean height
of a quadrant was used to calculate the standing biomass of a quadrant. The average
volume/ha was calculated as the weighted average (based on area under each soil type) and
using the wood density 0.55 for Eucalyptus as below:


                   Age of Eucalyptus Weighted average
                   plantation        of biomass (t/ha) Volume/ha

                   2                       14.48                 26.33

                   3                       18.36                 33.39

                   4                       24.75                 44.99

                   5                       31.97                 58.13



Detailed Project reports of both these Projects are given in the annexure.

Gains from investments in applied research initiatives: APCFM programme initiated by
the AP Forest Department with the World Bank assistance incorporated the research and
development as a major component. The mandate fixed for research and development wing
under the project was to attain the goal of improved planting stock by various means of
various tree improvement methods to increase the productivity of the plantations. Under the
tree improvement works, deployment of various short-rotation crops, high-value timber
species and high-yielding NWFP species were the major focus areas. The development of a
sound propagation strategy and standardizing the propagation structures for the clonal
planting stock production was also given the priority. The genetic gain of the planting
                                               77
population can be achieved only when the quality planting stock is subjected to the
appropriate site management protocols and therefore one of the goals set for the R&D was to
standardize the intensive site preparation methods and the other cultural operation methods
like application of bio-fertilizer and biopesticides etc. To conserve some of the high-value
species for the future, domestication of lesser-known species was also given importance in
the project. The dissemination of technology to the field was also another major component
of the project. In short, Applied Research under the project is being concentrated more on the
issues which are directly relevant for improving the productivity and sustainability in the
VSS such as silvicultural treatments of degraded forests, clonal technology, improved nursery
practices, collection and marketing of NWFP species including medicinal and aromatic
plants, training and extension etc.

       As a mid term appraisal, attempting to assess the impact of research in achieving the
objective of the project is a mammoth task because out of all the outputs of the research,
some can be quantified and others cannot. Probably, one can comment on the qualitative
impact on such outputs like training which cannot be quantified

       Against the above backdrop, an attempt is made here to catalogue the impact of
research outputs on the productivity of the plantations in terms of quality planting stock.
However mention of other achievements like improved nursery practices, standardization of
propagation technique of some of the NWFP species including medicinal plants, production
of bio-fertilizers, services offered by the establishment of laboratory facilities in BIOTRIM,
taking up some natural forest management trials, establishing the multi-locational trials,
initiation of idea of technology dissemination centres and grounding them, transfer of
technology from the research centres to the field through trainings etc. will be made.

Improved Nursery practice: The introduction of Root Trainers for growing seedlings,
standardization of appropriate organic potting medium, culling to grade the seedlings keeping
in view the size and other physiological parameters, pre-treatment chambers to treat the seeds
before sowing in the primary beds vermin compost preparation, use of bio-fertilizers like
VAM, PT spore and Rhizobium to fortify the planting stock, establishment of clonal
multiplication areas for mass propagation of the selected clones, mist chamber / poly-
propagators, appropriate irrigation system are some of the innovative outputs of the R&D
wing of the APFD. To start with, 4 Research Nurseries were established in 4 Research Centre



                                              78
and as a part of the decentralization of the production system, the same structure of the
nursery was replicated in 60 Central Nurseries.

Production of genetically improved clonal panting stock: The major mandate of the R&D
was to improve the genetic quality of the planting stock which when deployed in the field
increases the productivity and with greater refinement of the site management and
silvicultural operations reduces the gestation of the crop. It was observed that comparative
gains from clonal plantation are very high over seed-route plantations based on unimproved,
genetically poor quality seeds. Clonal development and deployment costs for short-rotation
species are lower and gains can be generally larger and quicker compared to long-rotation
species. Short rotation will mean faster turnover of capital, improved cash flow and lesser
interest burden in respect of fast growing clonal plantations. High value of biomass/wood
from clonal plantations, because of uniformity and most desirable properties, will result in
better economic gains. Low interest rates reduces capital cost and production costs leading to
increased gains.

       Apart from the genetic superiority of the clonal planting stock, economic gains also
depends on the intensity of the management, quality of the planting site, soundness of the
silvicultural practices, protection including weed/pest and fire control measures. Economic
gains can also be increased by minimizing the constraints to site productivity to the extent
possible like cost-effective management of soil salinity/acidity, providing mineral nutrients in
short supply through fertilizers, use of bio-fertilizers, green manuring etc.

       Gains in improvement of productivity, yield and up-gradation of desirable traits of the
produce also depend upon the intensity of the selection of clones. Specific adaptability of
each clone and strong genotype-environment interactions suggest that clonal trials should be
planted on diverse sites for finding out most suitable clone(s) for each site quality. Generally,
higher the intensity of selection and lesser the number of best performing clones used in the
plantation programme, better will be gains in terms of productivity and economic returns.
However, too narrow genetic base of clonal plantations will mean taking serious future risks
in respect of possible insect pests/ disease attacks. Wide genetic base of clonal plantations
with large number of clones can minimize such risks. One has to carefully weigh the
potential gains and risks and decide the optimum number of best available clones to be
included in commercial plantations.

The clonal technology was applied to the following species in a large scale:

                                                79
   a) Eucalyptus
   b) Casuarina equisetifolia
   c) Gmelina arborea
   d) Tectona grandis
Apart from clonal technology method, the planting stock improvement was attempted by
establishing Clonal Seed Orchard (CSO) and Seedling Seed Orchard (SSO). They proved to
be the most common method of mass producing genetically improved seed. Seed Orchards
were established by planting grafts or clones of short-listed high-yielding clones in a selected
mating design to maximize cross-pollination within the orchard, taking care to reduce the
contamination by outside pollination. Similarly, the SSOs of different species were
established from the open pollinated plus tree seed, usually at a closer spacing than in CSO.
Sometimes, Progeny Trials were converted to SSO after thinning of the inferior families. The
seeds from both these CSO and SSO were tested by deploying the plants from both these
sources and it was found that the productivity is enhanced by these improved planting stock.

       R&D wing not only delivered these improved genetic outputs, both reproductive and
vegetative propagules, for the plantation programme under APCFM in the VSS areas but also
provided the selected clones to the territorial central nurseries to take up their production by
establishing clonal multiplication areas (CMA) and mass multiplying.

       The below given paragraphs will depict the economic gain achieved by the R&D
wing towards the fulfilment of the project objective of improving the productivity of few of
the species deployed in the plantation programme

Eucalyptus: Eucalyptus is one of the largest and most widely cultivated short-rotation tree
species in Andhra Pradesh. Traditionally seedlings are raised from the seed and used for
planting with 20-25 MT/ ha after 8-10 years. The high demand for Eucalyptus pulp by the
paper industries initiated the Forest Department to find out the way to increase the yield per
unit area. A remarkable progress has been achieved in improving the productivity of
Eucalyptus plantations through Clonal Forestry.        The economic gain from the clonal
plantation of Eucalyptus was facilitated by the short rotation of the crop, easy rooting ability
of the juvenile leafy-cuttings to root and the competitive price of the pulp associated with
ready demand.

       The Research wing has so far supplied 14.66 lakhs of clonal planting stock of
Eucalyptus under CFM programme for planting in the VSS area following intensive site

                                              80
preparation methods and kept ready 19 lakhs of clonal planting stock to be planted during
2006 planting. While production from the seed origin plantation at 10 years rotation is about
25 MT/ Ha, through Clonal Forestry it could be raised to 50 MT / Ha in 7 year rotation,
which is an improvement of 80% over ordinary seedlings. The seedlings raised from the seed
collected Clonal Seed Orchards would improve the productivity by 20 ­ 25%

 No.      of   Area      Expected yield     Expected yield if   Excess      Value      in
 Clones        that      by deploying the   planted     with    yield as a terms       of
 Produced      can be    clonal planting    ordinary            result   of money for
 & Supplied    plante    stock              seedlings           genetic     excess yield
 till   last   d    in                                          gain
 season        Ha.       Phy      Fin       Phy       Fin                   (in      Rs.
                                                                            Lakhs)
                         (M.T.)   (in Rs. (M.T.)      (in
                                  Lakhs)              Lakhs)

 14,65,793*    1173      58650    1085      29325     543       29325         542

 19,00,000#    1520      76000    1406      38000     703       38000         703

 Total gain              134650                                 67325         1245



* (Rajahmundry : 5,17,658. Titupati: 1,53,100. Hyderabad: 6,48,415. Warangal: 1,46,620)

Espacement is 3m X 3m. (1250 plants/ha including casualty replacement of 10%)

Expected yield per ha after 7 yrs ­50 MT if planted with clonal material (the yield figure is
taken from the APFDC clonal plantation harvesting figure) and 25 MT if planted by ordinary
seedlings. Cost per MT Rs.1850/- is considered.

# R&D Circle kept ready 19 lakh of committed clonal planting stock of Eucalyptus for supply
to the VSS plantation to be taken up during 2006 planting season.

Potential for production of Clonal planting stock of Eucalyptus from the existing CMAs
in R&D Circle:
                                                      Plants that
                                                                        Value of the
 Sl.                                         No. of   can be
               Name of the CMA                                          plants
 No.                                         plants   produced in
                                                                        produced
                                                      6 years
                                                                        (in Lakhs)
                                                      (3 harvests)
 1     Eucalyptus CMA at Rajahmundry         17840    2890000*          202.30

 2     Eucalyptus CMA at Tirupati            13800    2235000           156.45


                                             81
 3      Eucalyptus CMA Hyderabad              20000        3240000       226.80

 4      Eucalyptus CMA, Warangal              10000        1620000       113.40

        TOTAL                                 61640        9985000       698.95



* Felling of stock plants 3 times by giving a gap of 18 months between 2 felling

* Harvesting of leafy cuttings 3 times in each felling by giving a gap of 45 days.

* 54 rooted cuttings will be produced in each felling (17840 stools x 54 = 963360 / felling.

* 963360 rooted cuttings x 3 times = 2890000 number

* Cost of rooted cutting is Rs. 7/- each.

Production potential / per year of CSO/SSO of Eucalyptus:

                                                                         Excess
                                                                         yield due
                                                     Area
                                                                         to genetic    Value of
                                       Seedlings     that
                    Expecte                                              gain when     the
 Name of the No. of                    that can      can be Yield
                    d seed                                               compared      Yield
 CSO / SSO   Trees                     be            plante (M.T.)
                    (Kgs)                                                to            (in
                                       produced      d
                                                                         ordinary      Lakhs)
                                                     (Ha)
                                                                         plantations
                                                                         (M.T.)
 SSO, RJY         120      6*          660000        528       15840     2640* *       48.84#

 SSO, HYD         847      42          4620000       3696      110880    18480         341.88

 SSO, SVFRS       2880     158         17380000      13904     417120    69520         1286.12

 CSO, RJY         920      46          5060000       4048      121440    20240         374.44

 CSO, HYD         4459     223         24530000      19624     588720    98120         1815.22

 CSO, TPT         120      6           660000        528       15840     2640          48.84

 Total from 9346           481         52880000      42328     1269840   211640        3915.34
 CSO/SSO



     * On an average, a tree yields 50 gm per year. No of seedlings that can be raised for
      plantation with 1 kg of seed   is 1,10,000.




                                                82
   **   Yield per Ha, if planted with seedlings from unknown source, the yield is around 25
   M.T. / Ha.     Due to genetic gain from the seeds of CSO/SSO, 20% improvement in the
   yield (30 MT/ Ha) can be expected.

   Espacement of the plantation is assumed as 3x3 m(1250 plants including 10% casualty
   replacement)

   # Value of the pulpwood is taken as Rs. 1850/- per MT

Casuarina equisetifolia

It is most widely planted and domesticated species of India. It is most preferred species for
coastal area of Andhra Pradesh.      Farmers of Andhra Pradesh accepted it as an important
agricultural crop and growing it. Efforts have been made on genetic improvement of
Casuarina equisetifolia by selecting superior trees from plantations, their vegetative
propagation and establishment of Clonal Seed Orchards, Clonal Multiplication areas and
progeny trial pots. New germplasm was also introduced through provenance testing with
seed sources from the entire range of natural and introduced plantation. Ten years have
elapsed since the inception of 20-years Casuarina Breeding Programme. It is time to assess
the impact of the project with interim results.

        The seedlings raised from the seed collected from CSOs would improve the
productivity by 20 ­ 25%.



 No.     of   Area     Expected yield        Expected yield if   Excess yield     Value      in
 Clones       that can                       planted     with    as a result of   terms      of
 produced     be                             ordinary            genetic gain     money for
 and          planted                        seedlings           (in MT)          excess yield
 supplied     (in Ha.)
 during                Phy    Fin            Phy       Fin                        (in Lakhs)
 CFM                   (M.T) (in             (M.T)     (in
                              Lakhs)                   Lakhs)
 114596       45       4050. 81.00           2700      54.00     1350*            27.00



*Yield per Ha. if planted by ordinary seedlings is around 60 M.T. per Ha.         Due to genetic
gain of improved seed, 50% improvement in the yield can be expected.

Cost of Casuarina wood is Rs. 2000/- per M.T. Espacement followed is 2x2 m



                                                  83
Potential for production of Clonal planting stock of Casuarina per year


                                                                    Value of the
                                             Plants that can be plants
 Sl.                           No. of plants
         Name of the CMA                     produced in 5 years (3 produced
 No.                           in CMA
                                             harvests)
                                                                    (in Lakhs)

 1       CMA 1999              210                210000*                 6.30**

 2       CMA 2005              1800               1800000                 54.00

                               2010               2010000                 60.30



*    In one year, 1000 successful rooted cuttings can be produced from a single plant.

** Cost of ramet is taken as Rs. 3/- per plant.

Potential production Seed / Seedlings from Casuarina CSOs / SSOs per year

                                                                         Excess
                                                                         yield due
                      Expect                                                             Value of
                                         Area that                       to genetic
 Name   of No.     of ed     Seedlings can be Yield                      gain when
                                                                                         the
 the CSO / Trees      seed   that can be planted                         compared
                                                                                         Yield
 SSO                         produced              (M.T.)                to ordinary
           (Female)   (in                                                                (in
                                         (in Ha)                         plantations
                      Kgs)                                                               Lakhs)
                                                                         (M.T.)

 CSO, 1995      40           1.2       579600*         231     16632     2772**          55.44

 CSO, 1996      107          3.2       1545000         618     44496     7416            148.32

 CSO, 1997      250          7.5       3622000         1449    104328 17388              347.76

 CSO, 1998      300          9.0       4347000         1738    125136 20856              417.12

 CSO, 1999      450          13.5      6520000         2608    187776 31296              625.92

 CSO, 1999      450          13.5      6520000         2608    187776 31296              625.92

 CSO, 2000      300          9.0       4347000         1738    125136 20856              417.12

 Total          1897         43.4      34937000        10990   791280 131800             2637.20



*        Yield of seed per female tree is 0.030 Kgs. No. of seeds per Kg. 8,05,000 Nos.

                                                  84
        Planting is expected to be done @ 2500 Nos. per Ha. (75% germination is expected
        and 80% survival percentage is considered)

**      Yield for ordinary plantation is taken as 60 MT / Ha. for 4 year rotation and for
        plantation raised from genetically improved planting stock, yield is expected to    be
        72 M.T. / Ha. for 4 year rotation.

Non-Timber Forest Products species: NTFP have both utilitarian and socio-economic
importance. They not only provide useful material to human and cattle populations but also
earn income to a sizeable section of tribal and rural populations.             The Collection,
consumption and marketing of NTFP are also part and partial of the life style and livelihood
of the tribal and rural populations living in and around the forest areas.
        Previously NTFP was considered in the category of Minor Forest Produces (MFP)
and given secondary importance to them.            As a result of this, there is no significant
management practice,      and in almost all areas, their extraction is neither regulated nor
controlled. Knowing the importance and potential of such plants in human life, steps are
taken to draw specific prescriptions for their better management on a sustained basis. Efforts
have been made for boosting the production of NTFP in their natural abode and in other
available lands. The species such as Tamarind, Jamun, Amla, Feronia, Seethaphal, Jack etc.
are introduced under this project.

 Species        No. of NTFP      Area that Expected yield         Value in terms of
                grafts           can     be                       money
                produced &       planted (in Phy     Fin
                supplied no      Ha.)                             (in Lakhs)
                                             (M.T.)  (average
                                                     unit rate in
                                                     Rs)

 NTFP           371655           929           3716        5000 / MT 185.80



The value of existing plantation in research Centers:

                    Sl.    Name of       the Area        Yield    Value
                    No.    Plantation        in Ha.
                                                         (M.T.)   (in    Rs.
                                                                  Lakhs)

                    1      Amla CMA            8         120      6.00

                    2      Tamarind            16        320      16.00

                                               85
                      3.         Jamun           6            120       12.00

                      4.         Seethaphal      5            27.5      1.00

                      5.         Soapnut         2            30.0      3.00

                                                                        38.00



     Production potential of NTFP grafts in Res. & Dev. Circle:

 Potential of production of NTFP Unit rate                           Value of the production in
 grafts                                                              Rs. Lakhs.

 500000 per year                              Rs. 10 / each          50.00



Multilocational clonal trial plots (MLCT)

MLCT have been established to shortlist the site specific clones for different species. Not
only MLCT will be helpful to the research wing to shortlist the site-specific clones but also
they will be the income-generating asset for the VSS in the long run. The VSS can take up
the multiplication of these clones for mass production and earn income by selling these high-
yielding clones outside market. The species and area wise list and probable returns that could
be expected are as follows:

 Sl.                       Area       No. of Production        Value of      Value of     Total
 No                        (Ha.)      plants potential of      the           the          value (in
        Species                              Planting          planting      produce if   Rs.
                                             stock (50%        stock         50%     of   Lakhs)
                                             Yielding                        stocks
                                             plants)           (Rs.          yields
                                                               Lakhs)
                                              (Rs. Lakhs)                    (in Lakhs)

 1      Feronia            2.7        1080    5400             1.08          0.54         1.62
        elephantum

 2      Syzygium           11.5       3228    16140            3.23          1.60         4.83
        cuminii

 3      Annona             13.33      4200    21000            4.20          2.10         6.30
        squomosa

 4      Emblica            13.37      4044    22000            4.40          1.01         5.41
        officinalis


                                                  86
 5     Sapindus        3.05     1220      6100           1.22       0.61        1.83
       emarginatus

 6     Tamarindus      11.60    3168      15840          3.17       1.60        4.77
       indica

 7     Pongamia        13.41    3456      -              -          -           -
       pinnata

 8     Azadirachta     4.85     1440      -              -          -           -
       indica

 9     Aegle           3.50     752       3760           0.75       -           -
       marmelos

 10    Madhuca         7.15     980       -              -          -           -
       latifolia

 11    Sterculia       1.0      1111      -              -          -           -
       urens

 12    Strychnos       3.0      560       -              -          -           -
       nux-vomica

       Total           93.45    49509                                           24.76



Tectona grandis

Teak has been used for decades in plantation establishment as a long-rotation high value
species. This species is easily established in plantation regimes compared to many other high
value timber species. Teak is interesting for tree improvement point of view because a) it is
used on large scale; b) the timber is of high value; and c) it is normally regenerated
artificially, which allows introduction of improved genetic material.

       In Andhra Pradesh, the Teak Improvement trials have started since last 30 years.
Basically the improvement comprised of selecting areas having phenotypically superior trees
and specially managing them for high production of seeds which are being deployed in the
plantation programme. The second tree improvement programme was the selection of the
CPTs from different areas of Andhra Pradesh. Subsequently, under the World Bank assisted
programme, the R&D wing of APFD has developed the Clonal Seed Orchard (CSO)with an
objective to further improve the genetic quality of the reproductive propagules. But the cost
of improving teak is unfortunately increased by poor setting capacity and low seed quality.
The seed shortage is increased by wasteful nursery practices, which only produce one


                                              87
seedling per 20 sown fruits. It is estimated (assuming planting of 1200-1600 stumps/ha) a
seed demand of 12-16 kg of teak seed per ha of plantation to be afforested. Hence this would
require at least 1 ha of clonal seed orchard for each 16 ha of plantation to be established
annually. At the same time the seed requirement used to vary from region to region because
of differences in germination percentage and sub-optimal nursery technique.

       Teak is slow-growing species, and tree improvement therefore a long term
investment. The rotation is traditionally high (50-60 years). Application of improved material
with good site preparation and cultural operations can reduce the rotation age, because of the
improved growth rate. The rotation age of teak plantings grown for traditional products could
therefore be reduced to 35-40 years. Still, ten to fifteen years may pass from the initiation of
an improvement programme before the first improved seeds are available, and another 40-50
years will then pass before the timber from the first rotation of improved planting stock is
harvested.

       The slow growth rate of the species is a drawback in tree improvement context for
two reasons: the internal rate of return (IRR) may be low due to discounting factor, eve if the
tree improvement activities result in large increase in annual value production on harvesting.
Further, the superior plus trees will be selected at a mature stage, but their breeding value will
be assessed from progeny tests and these must be evaluated at a young stage in order to save
time. One must therefore rely on a good correlation between the juvenile performance and the
performance at the harvesting stage.

       Keeping in view the above factors, the mandate before the research wing was to
increase the productivity of the plantation by enhancing the genetic quality of the planting
stock and at the same time improves the germination practice of the seeds. The two major
objectives of the Teak Improvement Programme in Andhra Pradesh are: development of
strategies and techniques for the multiplication of superior half-sib open pollinated families
by cuttings; and the mass propagation of superior individual clones. Assuming that the first
level of improvement by using the seeds from the specially managed Seed Production Areas
(SPA) there will be 5% genetic gain and the second level of improvement by using the seeds
of CSO/SSO there will be an increase of 10% in the yield, 689 ha of SPA was established and
105 ha of CSO was established in Andhra Pradesh. Keeping in view the productivity of teak
(All India average) of 2.86 cum/ha/yr over 50 years rotation, we expect that by deploying the
SPA seeds the yield will be 149 cum per ha after 50 years and 156 cum per ha after 50 years.

                                               88
         For the further enhancement of the genetic gain of the teak planting stock, APFD has
resorted to the application of vegetative propagation like serial cutting and micropropagation
methods. It is assumed that the gain will be at least a minimum of 50%, i.e., 213 cum per ha
after 40 years. In BIOTRIM center, the micropropagation of 35000 short-listed clonal
planting stock will be ready for deployment in this planting season. Similarly, we will be
producing approximately 1 lakh of serial cutting from this planting season. Similarly, under
serial cutting method of macropropagation, a total number of 70,000 improved clonal ramets
of short-listed clones of teak will be deployed in the plantation programme under APCFM
this year.

Extra Yield due to deployment of vegetatively-propagated clonal planting stock

 No.     of   Area     Expected yield      Expected yield in    Excess yield     Value      in
 Clones       that can in 40 yrs           50 yrs, if planted   as a result of   terms      of
 Produced     be                           with      ordinary   genetic gain     money (@
 & to be      planted                      seedlings            (in cum)         Rs.     0.35
 supplied     in Ha.                                                             lakh/cmt)for
 under                 Phy      Fin        Phy       Fin                         excess yield
 APCFM                 (in                 (in
                       cum) (in            cum)      (in                         (in Lakhs)
                                Lakhs)               Lakhs)

 100000       80           17040 5964      11360     3976       5680             1988.00



Potential production of Seed / Seedlings from CSOs / SSOs.

 Name of the No. of Expected Seedlings              Area     Yield       Excess         Value of
 CSO / SSO   Trees  seed     that can               that can             yield due      the
                             be                     be       (cmt)       to genetic     Yield
                    (Kgs)    produced               planted              gain when
                                                                         compared       (in
                                                    (Ha)                 to ordinary    Lakhs)
                                                                         plantations    @ Rs.
                                                                                        0.35
                                                                         (cmt.)         lakh

 CSO, RJY           5700     285        142500      114**       17784    1778*          622.30

 CSO, SVFRS         468      23         11500       9           1404     140            49.00

 CSO, WGL           3900     195        97500       78          12168    1217           425.95

 Total              10068    503        251500      201         31356    3135           1097.25


                                              89
*         Taking the MAI of teak of 2.85 cum/ha/yr over 50 years rotation (All India average),
          one can expect the yield per ha as 142 cum. Assuming a genetic gain of 10% in the
          CSO, the yield per ha after 50 years can be taken as 156 cum per ha.

**        On an average 50 gms of seed per tree is expected and 500 seedlings / kg can be
produced. A stock of 1250 (including 10% casualty replacement) per Ha is required
which can be planted in 3x3 m espacement under intense site preparation method.

Potential production of improved planting stock of Teak by mass multiplication of the
seedlings derived from CSO seed

Keeping in view the low output from the Teak CSO orchard, the R&D wing standardized a
protocol to amplify the genetic gain by vegetatively propagating the seedlings obtained from
the CSO seeds. The mini-cuttings can be taken and rooted which form the improved planting
stock. Therefore on an average we can multiply the planting stock at least 10 times. The same
genetic gain of 10% is expected from such planting stock. A projection of the planting stock
which can be obtained with the harvest of 503 kg of CSO seed is 25.15 lakh. This planting
stock can be planted in 2012 ha and with a minimum of 10% increase in the yield one can
expect a total yield of 313872 cum over 50 years of rotation. The monetary value of this
increased yield accruing due to the deployment of the improved planting stock is Rs.9859/-
lakh.

Domestication of lesser known species: It was felt that many of the secondary species are
disappearing from the forest in a very faster space and may be after a decade there will be no
stand available for the collection of seeds. Moreover, as a part of long term strategy, it was
considered worthwhile to introduce these high-value timber species in the plantation
programme in the VSS area. Keeping these things in mind, the domestication programme of
Dalbergia latifolia, Albizia odoratissima, Adina cordifolia, Mitragyna parviflora,
Pterocarpus marsupium, Pterocarpus santalinus, Ougeinia oojeinensis, Radernachera
xylocarpa, Gmelina arborea etc. was initiated. The CPTs were identified and the seeds were
collected and progeny trial were laid. It is also proposed that the clonal propagation of few of
the amenable species will be tried for deployment of the clonal propagules in the field. Apart
from that the CSOs of these species will be laid in the research centres to address the seed
demand in the future. It is too early to assess the impact of the research activities taken up on
these projects. But, in future, it has a lot of potential to meet the timber requirement of the
future.

                                                90
Production of Bio Fertilizers: As a part of improving the nutrient status of the seedlings, the
need to produce biofertilizers and introduction of these in the nursery programme was felt.
The species specific strain of Rizobium are being produced in the BIOTRIM laboratory at
Tirupathi and supplied to the different nurseries for application to the organic potting medium
of the root trainer seedlings. Similarly the production of VAM has been taken up and
supplied to the various central nurseries to start the production of VAM in those site. The
Eucalyptus specific biofertilizer i.e, Pisolithus tinctorus was taken up in BIOTRIM lab and
supplied to the nurseries where the clonal planting stock production of Eucalyptus was taken
up.

Establishment of TDCs: TDC forms a part of the activity of the attempt to transfer the
technology transfer from the research centres to the field. Regular meetings were conducted
with the help of the research staff which exposed the field staff, community workers
regarding the new developments in the research area. In these TDCs, the infrastructure like
meeting hall, dormitory etc. were established. The propagation structures like CMAs,
demonstration gardens of medicinal plants, propagation units, RT nursery, vermicompost
unit, value addition units etc. were established to expose the staff regarding the development
on the technology front.

Training: The following trainings/ workshops were so far conducted by the Research Wing
on transfer of technology from the inception of the project.

 Type         of No.     of No. of persons trained
 training        trainings
                 conducted VSS          FD staff         NGOs        CEW        Total

 Forest            178         3788          926         156        0           4870
 Management

 Financial      54             1631          138         0          0           1769
 Management
 and       Book
 keeping

 Preparation of 13             273           86          26         0           385
 Microplans

 Business          3           0             89          0          0           89
 Management

 Propagation of 4              40            38          0          0           78
 Medicinal


                                              91
 plants

 CEW               38           218           142          74      261        695

 Multilocational 7              129           85           7       0          221
 Clonal Trials

 Interactive       29           89            732          6       0          827
 seminars

 Study Tours       17           272           53           2       0          327

 Workshops on 6                 236           142          32      0          410
 Bamboo

 Total             349          6676          2431         303     261        9671



The objective of the trainings, seminars and workshops is to expose the VSS and FD
personnel to various research trials propose under APCFM Project and to get their feed back
and opinion on the transfer of technology initiated under APFP and how to improve it further
and also to clarify their doubts and demonstrate on improved nursery technology, NTFP
including medicinal plants, clonal technology, natural forest management etc. Some of the
topics that are covered in the interactive seminars are:

1. Co-ordination and collaboration with territorial officers and staff by Research wing on
   laying and conducting Multilocational Clonal Trials and Natural Forest Management
   Trials.
2. Treatment of various types of degraded natural forests involving the VSS
3. Sustainable harvesting of Bamboo
4. Evaluation of performance and shortlisting of NTFP clones
5. Expansion of CMAs in central nurseries with shortlisted NTFP clones including oil
   yielding species such as Semarouba glauca, Pongamia, Neem, Mohwa etc.
6. Improved nursery technology
7. Issues pertaining to maintenance and expansion of central nurseries and vegetative
   propagation units
8. Allotment of NTFP grafts produced in the Research centres for planting in the VSS areas
9. Development of Technology transfer centes @ 1 each in all the 14 districts where
   APCFM Project is being implemented
10. Production and utilization of bio-fertilizers, compost and vermicompost


                                               92
11. Conservation, cultivation, harvesting and value addition of Medicinal plants.


       Further, almost every day officers, staff, VSS members, NGOs from some part of the
state or other, visit the Research centers to learn various techniques and a no. of technologies
are demonstrated to them.

       The Research and Development wing conducted the interactive seminars regularly to
all categories of forest staff in the research centres. This not only helped the field staff in
knowing the things done in the research wing but also gave an appropriate opportunity to
know the areas where the intervention of the research is required.

       It is very difficult to quantify the impact the effect of training but the skill
improvement particularly among the staff and the VSS is very clearly visible in the field. At
the same time the awareness level and technical competency of the VSS members has
increased many fold.

Impact of research on Natural Forest Management trials: It was contemplated that the
research should provide results, though preliminary, to demonstrate the impact of research
undertaken on natural Forest Management (NFM) on the improvement of forest productivity
and VSS livelihoods. It was also thought to develop specific education programme for VSS
on forest treatment practices and treatment and harvesting of NTFPs. Apart from that it was
stressed to develop simple technique for NTFP quantitative assessment. Similarly, it was
suggested to consider alternative species for short rotation woody crops and long-rotation
higher value trees in VSS plantations.

In this connection following actions have already been initiated:

   1. Basically, to assess the impact of the various treatment practices adopted by territorial
       staff on the productivity and site quality, the following types of NFM trials have been
       undertaken in the VSS areas.
           a) Simple methodology of finding growing stock and MAI in degraded natural
               forests treated with coppicing and singling has been evolved. The parameters
               of the study are growing stock and MAI estimation and dynamics of
               vegetation in treated area vis-à-vis untreated areas.
           b) Trial plots have been laid to determine the optimum thinning regime in the
               degraded natural forest. The objective of singling and thinning experiment is

                                               93
             to determine the thinning regime (including intensity and interval) in order to
             produce maximum financial returns of which the site is capable. The
             parameters of the study are the number of stems to be retained in the degraded
             natural forest and the age at which the reduction is made to an accepted
             minimum.
         c) Trial plots have been laid to assess the effect of shoot reduction (singling of
             coppice) at various intensities and intervals on the volume and growth of the
             coppice.
         d) Similarly the trial plots in bamboo forests have been laid with three objectives
             of study:
             i)      Effect of the canopy intensity on the growth and yield of bamboo. This
                     experiment assumes greater significance because of the fact of large
                     areas have been planted under bamboo under-planting in the natural
                     forests of different canopy intensity. Sample plots are being laid in
                     pure bamboo areas, bamboo plantation areas, bamboos growing under
                     the teak plantations and the bamboos planted under different canopy
                     intensity of miscellaneous plantations.
             ii)     Effect of silvicultural operations taken up in natural bamboo forest
                     areas under TP-7 of the APFP.
             iii)    Effect of clear felling of congested bamboo clump area to find out the
                     new clump recruitment and annual productivity.
         e) Trial plots have been laid out to assess the impact of SMC works on existing
             vegetation and on natural regeneration.
         f) Trial plots have been laid out to find the performance of in-situ grafting.
         g) Demonstration plots have been raised taking teak, Eucalyptus, Casuarina and
             Gmelina arborea to demonstrate the growth variations of the Clonal (rooted
             cuttings, bud grafts, serial cuttings, tissue culture seedlings) CSO/SSO seed
             and unknown source seed originated planting stock. These plots are being laid
             not only in all the field research stations but also in the farmers fields also.


Social and economic impacts: The other major set of initiatives contributing to the
achievement of Project development objective is community participation and social
mobilization. VSS has been evolving as a managed and more technically competent


                                              94
institution that considers gender and social equity over the last decade. The initiatives taken
under the Project of addressing gender issues, issues of vulnerable groups, of participation in
decision making will have long term positive repercussions even in the post project scenario.
Out of 5000 VSSs being assisted under this Project, 3182 (63.6%) have significant Tribal
membership. Thus including and assisting these VSSs will have a significant positive bearing
on the overall relationship between Forest Department and tribal communities. As a
consequence of reservation of forests since late 1880s, there have been conflicts between the
forest department and tribal communities. Such conflicts escalated in Andhra Pradesh during
1980s due to increase in activities of certain anti social elements. But the initiative of Joint
Forest Management that started during 1992 which has now been upgraded as Community
Forest Management has virtually rewritten the relation between Forest Department and Tribal
communities. Forest Officials no longer consider Tribals as wage earners or merely as a
workforce and the Tribals consider Forests as their common property resource and
themselves as stakeholders in forest management. A sense of ownership has developed and
with this the responsibilities for protection and management are no longer the mandate only
for the Forest Department. The role of Foresters also is changing gradually and significantly
from implementers to facilitators.

Gender issues being addressed: The constitution of VSS mandates that 8 out of 15
members of managing committee are women and at least one of either Chairperson or Vice
chairperson is a woman. While forests play a significant role in the lives of women through
utilities as water source and source of domestic energy (fuel wood), by and large we are
dealing with a male dominated society and many forest management operations and forest
protection tasks are traditionally male oriented. It is heartening to note that in 450 VSSs
Women have been functioning as Chairpersons (in others as Vice chairpersons) and in 160
VSSs both the Chairpersons and Vice Chairpersons are women. Even in the profile of
employment generation under the Project, women have a share of 48.31 % Thus gender
issues are slowly getting addressed.

Income Generation: The institution of VSS is more than a decade old and the existing
resources in the VSS managed forest area had been treated on the sound principles of forest
management by the VSS with an idea of making them productive. Besides this lot of assests
created by way of raising artificial regeneration of SRWPs, NTFPs, medicinal plants and by
way of taking soil and moisture conservation works. The community leadership at places
have become strong enough to take up further activities in the area of value addition and

                                              95
marketing for making the VSS sustainable. Cumulative income generated from VSSs is Rs.
186.42 Crores. This is the total income generated which essentially includes the value of the
forest produces consumed by the VSS members locally as the domestic needs as well as the
quantities sold. The various sources of income in the VSSs are small timber, poles, firewood,
bamboo, grass, NTFPs from the natural forests, Compound fees, harvesting and thinning of
regenerated Teak forests and short rotation species like Eucalyptus and Bamboo. There are
some value addition activities going on especially in the area of apiculture, pisciculture, lac
cultivation, adda leaf plate making, bamboo based enterprises like agarbathi sticks, mats,
furniture, handicrafts, basket making etc., extraction of essential oils from bodha grass, hill
brooms etc. for generating income to the VSS members.

Self sufficiency in financial management and book keeping: Historically Forest
Department has been a conventional and regulatory department with well defined systems
and procedures. It has been a very conservative organization and guarded in adopting
changes. VSSs are institutions primarily promoted by the Forest Department as the ones to
lead and guide the Community in shifting from estate approach to participatory approach in
forest management. Success of Community Forest Management is heavily depends on the
level of maturity of VSSs and their ability to decide and implement their decisions. One of
the indicators of success in this regard is self-sufficiency of the VSSs with regard to keeping
their own books of accounts. Unlike many other initiatives, which provide external support in
financial management, this Project planned to create and enhance ability within VSS
institution in book keeping. With this in view, 3 educated youth in each VSS were selected
and trained adequately in book keeping and financial management. Similarly Community
Extension Workers also were trained in this regard. During January 2004, the Government
amended the AP Forest Department Code with reference to financial powers and financial
management. Through this amendment, the Government recognized VSS as an institution in
implementation of works and in handling and managing financial allocations. In accordance
with this amendment, financial allocations made for VSS works are now being released by
the DFOs directly to the VSSs. The Chairperson of the VSS is the disbursing authority with
regard to funds for VSS works. The VSSs are able to handle and manage the otherwise
elaborate accounting procedure of the Forest Department virtually on their own. Thus the role
of the APFD has now been clearly defined in the APFD code as that of facilitators and the
role of VSS as that of implementers. This clarity has brought in tremendous amount of
confidence and responsibility to the VSSs enhancing their participation. There is a

                                              96
perceptible improvement in the level of awareness in the VSSs on account of this policy
change.

Employment generation: Forestry has always been a heavy source of employment
generation especially in the rural sector. In fact more than 50% of the contribution to
livelihoods from forestry is from employment generation potential of forestry operations.
Bulk of the area of Andhra Pradesh state, due to historical and geographical reasons is in rain
shadow region. This being the case the state has suffered from drought for the last four years.
This on one hand and the fact that majority of the members of VSSs are poor and landless,
makes them highly vulnerable and compels them to migrate for want of adequate livelihood
opportunities. Migration is one of the most cruelties that nature imposes on such target group
especially when there is drought. While migration disrupts and nearly destroys families, it
also adversely affects these vulnerable groups in that none of the welfare measures taken by
the Governments reach them as they are not physically available to receive them. Considering
these situations creation of 37.322 million person days of employment is laudable. Coming
particularly in lean months, this Project has provided an opportunity to all poor members of
VSSs in staying back in their respective villages and access employment available through
VSS works. This is a very important and humane fall out of Project implementation.

Focusing on livelihood enhancement as means of sustainable forest use: Focus so far in
any Forestry Project has been on creation and Management of Forest resources through
rejuvenation of degraded forests, artificial regeneration, soil and moisture conservation
activities, fire control etc.   No Forestry Project generally deals with linking forest
management with livelihood of the people living in its vicinity and depending on it.
Generally the people living in the vicinity have invariably been regarded as work for forestry
regeneration, harvesting, management etc. In this context, the APCFM Project has made a
distinct difference in that it has linked up forest management to livelihood enhancement.

Bamboo based enterprises: A comprehensive sector analysis and development of an action
plan for harnessing Bamboo resources in Andhra Pradesh has been made. The state of
Andhra Pradesh accounts for about 7.4% of area and about 10% of production of Bamboo in
India. But the diversity of Bamboo is limited as most of the Bamboo is Dendrocalamus
strictus with little area under Bambusa bambus and Dendrocalamus hamiltonii. On an
experimental basis Melacona baccifera, Bambusa tulda, B. polymorpha and B. Balcoa have
been introduced this year. Their performance is yet to be tested. The Project has invested

                                              97
significantly in rejuvenation of degraded Bamboo forests. 22,717 ha of degraded bamboo
forests have been treated so far. In addition to this, 20,227 ha of bamboo plantations have
been raised. Significant initiative in addition to creating resource base is in the area of value
addition and market support.

       Value addition to Bamboo in the form of Bamboo Agarbathi stick making has been
taken up in Adilabad district in the tribal areas. Marketing of these sticks is being done
locally as well as to ITC, Chennai. So far 768 tonnes of such sticks have been produced and
marketed. This activity is fetching revenue of Rs.26,000 per tonne as against Rs. 1500 per
tonne being realized from Paper and pulp mills. It is pertinent to note adapting appropriate
technology in ensuring wide participation in this activity. The tools supplied are locally made
and very simple to use and maintain. Significant achievement here is adopting a cluster
approach and providing common facility centres which also function as training com
production centres. This approach has brought in a new dimension of necessity of federating
and networking around the common facility centre and the host of service that it provides.
The CFCs provide great community feeling and function as enterprise and marketing hubs.
To scale up the activity and to bring in an element of stability a Producer Company has been
constituted at Tiriyani in Bellampalli Division. From a virtual insignificant species that was
valued only for its potential for pulp making, Bamboo is making inroads into the VSS
economy slowly but significantly.

Adda leaf: Another significant development which certainly has a long term positive impact
on the economy of tribal families especially in the North Coastal Pradesh is initiation of
Adda leaf based enterprises with appropriate technology. Traditionally the tribals of
Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, East Godavari and Bhadrachalam areas have been collecting
Adda leaf (leaves of Bauhinia vahlii) and selling to GCC and middlemen in Shandies. But the
benefits of value addition that was undertaken by plainsmen has never reached tribals before.
Thus the forest dependant tribals have remained poor and their drudgery of travelling long
distances on foot many a times for days together have added to their misery. A simple
intervention of training the tribal women in stitching leaves into leaf plates taken up through
participation of 40 NGOs in 322 villages covering around 20478 members in Visakhapatnam
and Vizianagaram districts has had salutary results. Each tribal woman trained in this activity
is able to earn any where between Rs. 30 and Rs. 50 per day as additional income after
attending to other routine activities. Though this activity has been initiated only three months
back, it is picking up like wild fire and is becoming very popular in the tribal belt. The

                                               98
enthusiasm seen among the tribal women in this activity is only to be seen to be believed.
This initiative will certainly bring a new perspective on the role of GCC, Forest Department
and NGOs in future as far as Adda leaf trade is concerned.

Community based Ecotourism: Community based ecotourism is under implementation in
areas rich in biodiversity. This activity has brought in a new concept of marketing
environmental values for sustainable forest management. This activity is under
implementation in 22 locations in 10 districts. 355 families of 25 VSSs are getting direct
employment on account of this activity. So far an amount of Rs.745.6 Lakh has been incurred
on development of infrastructure in these locations (treck paths, tracks for safari drive,
accommodation for visitors, interpretation facilities, canteen facilities, canopy walk
(Talakona) etc.). An amount of Rs.228.785 lakhs of revenue is generated from eco tourism in
these centres. All the revenue generated is utilised by the respective VSSs/EDCs towards
payment of remuneration to their members who are providing services at the centre (as
guides, in catering, in places of accommodation, watch and ward and for maintenance of
sanitation and cleanliness)

Impact on house hold income: An independent study conducted (in association with M/s
CENPAP) in a sample of 474 VSSs covering 5174 house holds has revealed that the
proportion of single income households had declined from 31 percent in 2005 to nil in 2009 due
to increase in sources of income during the later period. Analysis on the sources of household
income clearly indicated that 74.5 percent of the households had income sources of three or more
during 2009 in comparison to just 57.5 households in 2005.

        Total Household Income of 5,174 VSS members when analyzed revealed that the annual
household income for the VSS members had increased from Rs. 104.70 millions to Rs. 160.39 millions
an increase of 53.2 percent over the four years period. The share of non-forest income in annual
household income has declined from 84.2 percent to 82.5 percent whereas the share of forest-based
income has increased from 15.8 percent to 17.4 percent. While the share of wages from forest
sector had declined, the share of non- wages income from forest sector had increased by more than
e percentage points. The increase in the share of non-wage income of forest sector was found
significant within the short period. It is in this context, essential to understand the contribution of
various sources of wage and non-wage income from forest and non-forest sources. The subsequent
paragraphs analyse the findings of the study in this regard.

Participatory Evaluation and Social Audit has revealed the following:

                                                   99
       Ninety four point three percent (94.3%) of VSS members get their requirement of
       firewood, fodder and small timber for domestic use.

       Sixty two percent (62%) of VSS Villages have experienced positive impact of Soil
       and Moisture Conservation works in terms of increase in water levels in open wells in
       the villages. In these villages there has been a significant improvement in agriculture
       yields.

       Forty four percent (44%) of VSSs need further strengthening I terms of book keeping
       an accounting abilities as they still depend on community extension workers (CEW)
       and Forest Officials in this regard.

       Fifty four point six percent (54,6%) of VSSs opined that further investments are
       needed for creation of plantation assets as the existing plantations are not adequate to
       ensure sustainability.

       Sixty two point one percent (62.1%) of VSSs are functioning in transparent manner
       whereas thirty seven point nine percent (37.9%) need to improve on this count.

       Seventy six point one percent (76.1%) of VSSs have adopted inclusive practices in
       respect of vulnerable groups while the rest twenty three point nine percent (23.9%)
       need to improve their performance in this regard.

Conclusion: From all the above, it can be inferred that the Project has made sincere attempts
to achieve the Project Development Objective in terms of creating an enabling environment
for Community Forest Management by proactive policy reforms in making the process of
Community Forest Management a reality. The highlights of the achievement however are the
initiatives taken for ensuring benefit sharing among the members of the community,
developing replicable models for cost sharing through reinvestment of benefits flowing from
forest management, developing vibrant pro poor institutions to undertake forest and forest
enterprise management, addressing issues of equity both from the perspective of gender and
of vulnerable groups, successfully implementing a challenging package of R&R through a
transparent and participatory approach, ushering in confidence among the participating
communities that they can manage their forestry and financial support without substantially
depending on forestry staff through adequate investments in developing human capital and




                                              100
para forestry professionalism and above all ensuring a sense of ownership and belonging
among the VSSs by fulfilling what was promised.



10. Annexures

   a.   Policy matrix
   b.   Key indicators
   c.   Research and Development Status
   d.   Integrated Pest Management Strategies




                                           101
                 Annex 1. Policy Matrix

                                                  Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project

                                                           Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix
                                                                                                                          Present stage

                        Issues and Effect               Recommended Action                 Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                        Completion


                                             1. Policy Aspects
1.1 Policy for       The Government of APs         Review the AP forest policy and         GOAP, APFD         Prior to     Complied.
Forestry sector          policy for forest         adopt a revised policy that has taken                    negotiation
                      development issued in         into account NFP 1988, AP Vision
  in Andhra
                         1993 is outdated.                2020 and NFAP 2000.
   Pradesh.                                        Establish policy development group
                    There is no mechanism for
                                                              within APFD.
                        regular review and
                     analysis of forest policy.
                                                                                                              Prior to
                                                                                               APFD         negotiation    Complied.



 1.2 Financial         Forestry sector suffers             Ensure setting up of VSS        GOAP, APFD         Prior to     Complied
  constraints       from inadequate budgetary             revolving funds to finance                        negotiation
                                                       reinvestments through issuance
                          support for forest                of GO authorizing VSS
                      management. At present            accounts and transfer of CFM
                     revolving funds have been         revenue for forest development.
                      set up covering revenue          Policy development group of
                                                       APFD will explore options and
                     from AP Forest Academy

                                                                                 102
                                                                                                                           Present stage

                      Issues and Effect              Recommended Action              Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                  Completion


                   for external training and            alternatives for resource
                  Geomatic and sale of high              mobilization and make
                                                      recommendations to GOAP.
                   value seedlings. Similar
                  initiatives are needed for                                            GOAP          31st December
                   revenue mobilization to                                                                 2003.
                        thwart financial
                          constraints.

1.3 Collection,              Lack of a well          Conduct a study and prepare        APFD.         31st December   This study was awarded
processing and             defined strategy for      a plan of action on the basis                         2002.           to M/s TERI, New
                           NTFP management               of recommendations.
  marketing of                                                                                                         Delhi. Development of
                          including production
    NTFP                   and non-destructive                                                                               enterprises and
                               harvesting.                                                                                    marketing are
                                                                                                                        undertaken basing on
                                                                                                                         suggestions made by
                                                                                                                        this study. Interactive
                                                                                                                          seminars have been
                                                                                                       31st March     conducted educating the
                                                                                        GOAP.            2003.               stakeholders on
                            Low income and                                                                            sustainable management
                           earning capacity of                                                                            practices of NTFPs
                          forest dwellers from                                                                         including their harvest.
                            NTFP because of
                            GCC monopoly

                                                                           103
                                                                                                                         Present stage

                       Issues and Effect                 Recommended Action           Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                   Completion

                          reduces the number
                           of legal buyers and
                          chokes the free flow
                                of goods.
                                                                                                                     NTFP based enterprises
                                                                                                                       (addaleaf plates) and
                                                                                                                          Bamboo based
                                                                                                                      enterprises have been
                                                                                                                     taken up with adequate
                                                          Liberalize trade in NTFPs                                      market support to
                                                             and improve market                                       address need for value
                                                                 information                                            addition. Adequate
                                                                                                       31st March    forward and backward
                                                         Remove restriction on NTFP                       2006          linkages also were
                                                                processing.                                                 established




1.4 Community GOAP order of 1996 on               Revise GO in consultation with         GOAP.           Prior to          Complied.
 participation                                   various stakeholders and the Bank.                    negotiation
                     JFM needs revision
   and CFM
               to facilitate transition to CFM
                            approach


                                                                              104
                                                                                                                               Present stage

                     Issues and Effect                Recommended Action               Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                    Completion


  1.5 Forest      Sanctioned working plans         APFD should prepare revised             APFD          31st March        All the working plans
 Management       do not exist in the project   working plans in accordance with its                        2003.          have been prepared.
 and Planning    area. As a result harvesting                 policy.
                    operations cannot be
                         carried out.

  1.6 Farm       Restrictions on tree felling,  Review policies on restrictions on     GOAP, APFD.         Prior to       Detailed guidelines have
   forestry      transit, trade and marketing       tree felling in private lands,                       negotiation            been issued
  marketing.     information constrain farm
                     / agro forestry from                                                                                   (Circular No.1/2003
                    reaching its optimum          Rationalize transport and trade                                             issued in Prl. CCF
                                               barriers. Simplify procedure for non-                    31st December     Ref.No.5357/ 2003/F5,
                            potential.                                                                       2002
                                                         exempted species.                                                dated:25-1-2003) on the
                                                                                                                             issue of removal of
                                                                                                                               timber and other
                                                                                                                             produce from patta
                                                                                                                                    lands.

                                                                  2. Legal Aspects
  2.1 Legal        AP forest policy for          Suitably amend the AP Forest act      GOAP, APFD         31st              Govt have issued
   backing for     participatory forest         1967 to provide legal framework for                     December               Addendum to
      CFM        management is not legally                    CFM.                                       2003.           G.O.Ms.No.13,EFS&T.
                      enforceable.                                                                                      (For.III) Deptt., Dated:12-


                                                                             105
                                                                                                                      Present stage

                   Issues and Effect             Recommended Action             Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                             Completion


                                                                                                               2-2002 in G.O.Ms.No.4
                                                                                                                EFS&T.(For.III) Deptt.,
                                                                                                                Dated:12-1-2004. The
                                                                                                               Draft Bill for amendment
                                                                                                                 of AP Forest Act was
                                                                                                                approved and proposals
                                                                                                               were sent to Government
                                                                                                              of India on 15-04-2006 for
                                                                                                                 concurrence in GOIs
                                                                                                              concurrence was obtained.
                                                                                                                In the meantime GOAP
                                                                                                                    have recognized
                                                                                                              community rights of VSSs
                                                                                                              under the Forest Rights Act
                                                                                                                2005 in respect of tribal
                                                                                                              VSSs. The others are being
                                                                                                              brought under the umbrella
                                                                                                                   of FDAs which are
                                                                                                                  registered societies.

2.2 Panchayat   Possibility of competing   Notify rules under the amended A P       GOAP            31st           GOAP have issued
     laws and    claims for the share of    Panchayat Act 1994 to ensure that                     December       orders in G O Ms. No.
       CFM       benefits from the same    Panchayats do not undermine VSS.                        2002.          50 EFS&T (For III)


                                                                      106
                                                                                                                           Present stage

                      Issues and Effect               Recommended Action                Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                     Completion


                    resources by the Gram                                                                               Dept. Dt. 23.2.2004
                  Panchayat and Gram Sabha                                                                             clarifying the position
                   under the A. P. Panchayat                                                                           stating that Panchayat
                    Raj Act, 1994 and VSS                                                                              laws are applicable to
                          under CFM.                                                                                  Panchayat lands. Hence
                                                                                                                         there is no conflict.


2.3 Cultivation       The cultivation of        A clarification or prior approval of     GOI, GOAP           31st     The World Bank in their
 of medicinal       medicinal plants is not    MOEF (GOI) should be obtained by                           December       letter dt.30-4-2003,
    plants          allowed without prior       the GOAP/APFD before taking up                              2002       pleased to note that the
                  approval of the GOI under    cultivation of medicinal plants in the                                   agreed action on the
                   the Forest Conservation                 forests areas.                                             issue has been complied
                          Act 1980.                                                                                              with.
                        Legal framework                                                                                      Complied
  2.4 NTFP                                      Review and amend AP Scheduled               GOAP          30th June
                     discourages the value
processing and                                   Area MFP (Regulation of Trade)                             2003
                   addition to NTFPs by the
    trade                                          Regulation 1979 to remove
                       tribal community.         restrictions on NTFP collection,
                                               transportation and value addition at
                                                            village level.




                                                                             107
                                                                                                                             Present stage

                        Issues and Effect                 Recommended Action              Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                       Completion


                                                   Institutional:
 3.1 Role and             Lack of adequate             Conduct a study to look into       GOAP, APFD           31st     Government have issued
  function of       delegation of financial and         delegation of financial and                         December    orders in G.O.Ms. No.2
    Forest           administrative powers to      administrative powers and workload                         2002      EFS&T (For.III) Deptt.
 Department           frontline staff. Present     among the staff and formulate action                                    Dated 7.1.2004.
                    distribution of workload of    plan based on recommendations and
                    FD staff is not suitable for              implement it.
                      implementing policy of
                               CFM.

3.2 Intersectoral       Inadequate linkages           Initiate monitoring of existing         APFD             31st        Various committees
 Coordination                between               mechanisms for coordination among                        December     have been constituted in
                       agencies/departments        various government agencies at state                       2002           G.O.Ms. No. 13.
                    doing similar work. Village       district and division levels and                                  Government have issued
                       development requires        review the efficacy of coordination.                                 Order issued in G.O.123,
                        support from many                                                                                EFS&T (For.III) Deptt.
                             agencies.                                                                                   Dt.13-12-2002 and G O
                                                                                                                        Ms. No. 78 EFS&T (For
                                                                                                                        III) Dept. Dt. 17.10.2003
                                                                                                                          including the Velugu
                                                                                                                        (IKP) Project authorities
                                                                                                                        in the above committees


                                                                                108
                                                                                                                              Present stage

                       Issues and Effect                  Recommended Action              Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                                                       Completion


                                                                                                                           and for convergence.

3.3 Involvement       Lack of clarity for          Develop mechanisms and criteria for    GOAP, APFD.        Prior to           Complied.
   of non-FD         NGO/NGI/University            greater NGO, and other civil society                    negotiations
 institutions in        involvement.                       involvement in CFM.
      CFM

3.4 Research &     Research Plan prepared in the     Revise the research plan using       GOAP, APFD         Prior to           Complied.
   Extension                                        priority setting methodology and                       negotiations
                         past is outdated.
                                                      also develop mechanisms for
                                                       identifying applied research
                                                                 questions.



3.5 Monitoring     Monitoring and Evaluation                Prepare a detailed                                            Government have issued
and Evaluation      system in FD is weak not               monitoring and evaluation                                       orders in G.O.Ms.No.
                        allowing learning                            plan.                    APFD          30th June       45, EFS&T(For.III)
                      opportunities Need to                                                                   2002         Deptt., Dt.26-5-2003,
                   develop an effective M&E                Third party monitoring and                                         appointing M/s.
                             system                        evaluation agency in place                                        CENPAP, Hyd as
                                                                                                                              Consultants for
                                                                                                                              Monitoring and
                                                                                                              30th
                                                                                                                          Evaluation of APCFMP.
                                                                                                           September

                                                                                109
                                                                                         Present stage

       Issues and Effect   Recommended Action         Responsibility    Date of
Area                                                                   Completion


                                                                          2002        The consultants have
                                                                                        submitted M&E
                                                                                     framework and project
                                                                                    monitoring is being done
                                                                                         basing on this
                                                                                          framework.




                                                110
                                Annex 2. Key Indicators



Report 1

 Distribution of VSS households by No of sources of Income (2005
                            & 2009)
 No of                 HHs with sources of income
source               2005                         2009
   s      No of HHs           %         No of HHs         %
   1         1603             31              0            0
   2          599           11.6           1320          25.5
   3         2643           51.1           1806          34.9
   4          329            6.4            811          15.7
   5           0               0           1176          22.7
   6           0               0             61           1.2
  All        5174            100           5174          100



                       Income by sources of sample households-2005 & 2009

  Source of Income         Total      % of HH           Total      % of HH   Increase    % of
                       income (Rs.)   Income        income (Rs.)   Income      income  increase
                           2005        (2005)           2009        (2009)    (2005 to
                                                                             2009) Rs.
Share of harvesting         -             0          2,193,562       1.4     2,193,562    100
income from VSS
NTFP Collection and     7,089,853        6.8        10,582,922       6.6     3,493,069    49.3
sale
Works in VSS from
Forest                  9,460,823         9         12,083,915       7.5     2,623,092    27.7
LDP Activities               -            0          3,148,440       2       3,148,440    100
Income from             31,677,764       30.3       39,069,446      24.4     7,391,682    23.3
Agriculture farm and
Wages from              56,476,258      53.9        93,312,898      58.2     36,836,640   65.2
off-farm sectors
     Total Income      104,704,697      100.0       160,391,183     100.0    55,686,486   53.2




                                              111
                                           Reduction of Poverty in study areas

    Categories of              Both years BPL             BPL in 2005 & Non BPL in         Non-BPL in both          Total
     Household                                                      2009                       Years              Households
                               No               %             No             %                  No        %

Total- All households               2223      43.0                  1969          38.1         982        19            5174

Total- Landless                     1466      34.2                  1837          42.9         980       22.9           4283

Total- Landholding                   757      85.0                  132           14.8          2        0.2               891

Total - SC families                  411      41.6                  379           38.4         198        20               988

SC- Landholding                      114      73.5                   40           25.8          1        0.6               155

SC- Landless                         297      35.7                  339           40.7         197       23.6              733

Total ST families                    834      41.9                  733           36.8         424       21.3           1991

ST - Landholding                     287      94.1                   18            5.9          0         0                305

ST- Landless                         547      32.4            715                 42.4         424       25.1           1686

                      Share of Household income of BPL households (BPL in 2005) increase

   Source of Income              2009               % Total           2005          % Total          Diff (09-05)     %
                                                    income                          income
Share of Harvesting                  -                0               1,874,812          2.4          1,874,812        0
Income
NTFP collection & sale              3,524,009         9.6             7,525,047          9.8          4,001,038      113.5

Wage employment from                4,680,658        12.8             8,703,525          11.3         4,022,867       85.9
VSS
LDP Activities                       -                0               2,429,340          3.2          2,429,340        0

Income from cultivation             1,964,650         5.4             2,535,286          3.3           570,636        29

Agri & Non- agri                 26,454,583          72.2            53,689,856          69.9        27,235,273       103
Wages
Total Income                     36,623,900          100             76,757,865          100         40,133,965      109.6


Total No of Households: 2223




                                                            112
 Changes in Household income of BPL households (BPL in 2005) who have become Non- BPL in 2009



        Sources            Household income in 2005           Household income in 2009               Increase in income

                          Amount (Rs)       % of HH             Amount          % of HH              Amount         % of
                                            income                              income                              total
                                                                                                                  increase
Share of Harvesting              -                 0              1,606,732           2.6        1,606,732          0.0
Income
NTFP collection & sale      2,282,276            8.8              5,722,239           9.2        3,439,963         150.7

Wage employment from        2,987,079           11.5              6,939,638          11.1        3,952,559         132.3
VSS
LDP Activities                   -                 0              2,066,023           3.3        2,066,023          0.0

Income from cultivation     1,948,244            7.5              2,517,240           4.0            568,996        29.2

Agri & Non - agri           18,650,733          72.1            43,494,478           69.8        24,843,745        133.2
Wages
Total Income                25,868,332           100            62,346,349           100.0       36,478,018        141.0


Total No of households:1969

                                 Total Household income by Type of Household

                                         2005                                         2009                      % increase
                                                                                                                 in income
Type of Household
                            Total       No.of HH       Avg income         Total       No.of HH          Avg
                         income(RS)                                    income(Rs)                     income
Total - All households    104,704,697       5,174             20,237 160,391,183             5,174     30,999         53.2
Total Landless             68,631,194       4,283             16,024 108,152,959             4,283     25,252         57.6
Total - Landholding        36,073,503           891           40,487    52,238,224            891      58,629         44.8
Total -SC families         18,997,351           988           19,228    29,084,658            988      29,438         53.1
SC-Landholding              5,401,313           155           34,847     8,181,876            155      52,786         51.5
SC- Landless               13,596,038           833           16,322    20,902,782            833      25,093         53.7
Total ST families          40,756,998       1,991             20,471    61,364,569           1,991     30,821         50.6
ST- Landholding            14,170,590           305           46,461    18,370,131            305      60,230         29.6
ST- Landless               26,586,408       1,686             15,769    42,994,438           1,686     25,501         61.7




                                                        113
                                      Harvest income by type of Household

     Harvesting                         2005                                     2009                     %
                            Total      No.of HH    Avg income          Total     No.of HH     Avg    increase in
 Type of Household
                         income(Rs)                                 income(Rs)              income     income
Total - All households        0            0            0              2,193,562      1,212    1,810       100.0
Total Landless                0            0            0              2,032,800      1,130    1,799       100.0
Total - Land holding          0            0            0                160,763         82    1,961       100.0
Total -SC families            0            0            0                376,857        205    1,838       100.0
SC-Land holding               0            0            0                 34,830         15    2,322       100.0
SC- Landless                  0            0            0                342,027        190    1,800       100.0
Total ST families             0            0            0              1,022,615        565    1,810       100.0
ST- Land holding              0            0            0                 82,656         42    1,968       100.0
ST- Landless                  0            0            0                939,960        523    1,797       100.0


                                      NTFP income by Type of Household
        NTFP                            2005                                     2009                     %
                            Total      No.of HH    Avg income          Total     No.of HH     Avg    increase in
 Type of Household
                         income(Rs)                                 income(Rs)              income     income
Total - All households       7,089,853   3,232              2,194     10,582,922      4,956    2,135        -2.66
Total Landless               6,152,012   2,837              2,168      9,293,521      4,139    2,245         3.54
Total - Land holding           937,841    395               2,374      1,289,401        817    1,578       -33.53
Total -SC families           3,260,229   1,480              2,203      4,433,329      1,929    2,298         4.33
SC-Land holding                136,328     51               1,673        199,831        137    1,459       -45.43
SC- Landless                 1,099,359    534               2,059      1,751,150        803    2,181         5.93
Total ST families            1,235,687    585               2,112      1,950,980        940    2,076        -1.74
ST- Land holding               551,211    233               2,366        518,437        280    1,852       -21.73
ST- Landless                 2,709,018   1,247              2,172      3,914,892      1,649    2,374         9.28


                                  Forest wage income by Type of Household
    Forest wages                        2005                                     2009                     %
                            Total      No.of HH    Avg income          Total     No.of HH     Avg    increase in
 Type of Household
                         income(Rs)                                 income(Rs)              income     income
Total - All households       9,460,823   3,366              2,811     12,083,915      3,443    3,510        24.87
Total Landless               8,286,293   2,971              2,789     10,895,985      2,898    3,760        34.81
Total - Land holding         1,174,530    395               2,973      1,187,930        545    2,180       -26.70
Total -SC families           1,729,466    604               2,863      2,141,451        639    3,351        17.04
SC-Land holding                185,950     56               3,321        226,084         94    2,405       -27.57
SC- Landless                 1,543,516    548               2,817      1,915,368        545    3,514        24.77
Total ST families            4,229,946   1,510              2,801      5,253,736      1,442    3,643        30.06
ST- Land holding               666,230    220               3,028        513,111        222    2,311       -27.57
ST- Landless                 3,563,716   1,290              2,763      4,740,625      1,220    3,886        40.66




                                                     114
                                         LDP income by Type of Household
     LDP Income                           2005                                     2009                     %
                            Total        No.of HH    Avg income          Total     No.of HH     Avg    increase in
 Type of Household
                         income(Rs)                                   income(Rs)              income     income
Total - All households        0              0            0              3,148,440      1,810    1,739       100.0
Total Landless                0              0            0              2,830,755      1,593    1,777       100.0
Total - Land holding          0              0            0                317,686        217    1,464       100.0
Total -SC families            0              0            0                528,750        319    1,658       100.0
SC-Land holding               0              0            0                 43,596         29    1,503       100.0
SC- Landless                  0              0            0                485,154        290    1,673       100.0
Total ST families             0              0            0              1,508,776        836    1,805       100.0
ST- Land holding              0              0            0                170,147        115    1,480       100.0
ST- Landless                  0              0            0              1,338,630        721    1,857       100.0


                                      Cultivation income by Type of Household

                                          2005                                      2009                       %
Income from
                            Total        No.of HH    Avg income          Total      No.of HH      Avg     increase in
Cultivation
                         income(Rs)                                   income(Rs)                income      income
Type of the household
Total - All households   31,677,764         891         35,553         39,069,446         987    39,584          11.3
Total Landless                -              0             -            2,033,741          96    21,185         100.0
Total - Land holding     31,677,764         891          3,553         37,035,705         891    41,566          16.9
Total -SC families        4,754,326         155         30,673          5,959,514         176    33,861          10.4
SC-Land holding           4,754,326         155         30,673          5,458,474         155    35,216          14.8
SC- Landless                  -              0             -              501,040          21    23,859         100.0
Total ST families        11,725,922         305         38,446         14,691,427         343    42,832          11.4
ST- Land holding         11,725,922         305         38,446         13,770,162         305    45,148          17.4
ST- Landless                  -              0             -              921,265          38    24,244         100.0


                             Agri & Non- Agri Wages income by Type of Household

                                          2005                                      2009                       %
Agri & Non Agri
                            Total        No.of HH    Avg income          Total      No.of HH      Avg     increase in
Wages
                         income(Rs)                                   income(Rs)                income      income

Type of the household
Total - All households     56,476,258      4,557             12,393    93,312,898       5,140    18,154          46.5
Total Landless             54,192,889      4,144             13,077    81,066,158       4,281    18,936          44.8
Total - Land holding        2,283,368       413               5,529    12,246,740         859    14,257         157.9
Total -SC families         11,277,872       868              12,993    18,127,105         983    18,441          41.9
SC-Land holding               324,710        58               5,598     2,219,062         151    14,696         162.5
SC- Landless               10,953,163       810              13,522    15,908,043         832    19,120          41.4
Total ST families          21,540,900      1,866             11,544    34,454,685       1,986    17,349          50.3
ST- Land holding            1,227,226       230               5,336     3,315,619         300    11,052         107.1
ST- Landless               20,313,674      1,636             12,417    31,139,066       1,686    18,469         48.75




                                                       115
                        Household Income by Source of Income (Sector)


   Source of Income                             2005                                  2009
                                   Amount                  %               Amount                %
Wage Forest Income                   9,460,823             9.0             12,083,915            7.5
Non- wage Forest Income              7,089,853             6.8             15,924,924            9.9
Non- Forest Income                  88,154,022            84.2            132,382,344           82.5
Total                              104,704,697            100.0           160,391,183           100.0

                                        Forest wage income by Type of Household
    Wage Forest                              2005                                    2009
                                                                                                          % increase
                              Total                                       Total                    Avg
 Type of Household                         No.of HH    Avg Income                    No.of HH             in Income
                           Income(Rs)                                  Income(Rs)                Income
Total- All households         9,460,823       3366             2,811 12,083,915       3,443      3,510       24.87
Total Landless                8,286,293       2971             2,789 10,895,985       2,898      3,760       34.81
Total Landholding             1,174,530        395             2,973 1,187,930         545       2,180      -26.70
Total - SC families           1,729,466        604             2,863 2,141,451         639       3,351       17.04
SC- Landholding                 185,950         56             3,321 226,084            94       2,405      -27.57
SC- Landless                  1,543,516        548             2,817 1,915,368         545       3,514       24.77
Total ST families             4,229,946       1510             2,801 5,253,736        1,442      3,643       30.06
ST- Landholding                 666,230        220             3,028 513,111           222       2,311      -23.68
ST- Landless                  3,563,716       1290             2,763 4,740,625        1,220      3,886       40.66


                                        Forest wage income by Type of Household
  Non Wage Forest                            2005                                    2009                      %
        Type of               Total                                        Total                   Avg    increase in
                                         No.of HH      Avg income                    No.of HH
      Household            income(Rs)                                  income(Rs)                income     income
Total- All households          7,089,853   3232                2,194    15,924,924     4988       3,193       45.54
Total Landless                 6,152,012   2837                2,168    14,157,075     4159       3,404       56.97
Total Landholding                937,841    395                2,374     1,767,849      829       2,133      -10.18
Total - SC families            1,235,687    585                2,112     2,856,587      944       3,026       43.26
SC- Landholding                  136,328     51                2,673      278,257       139       2,002      -25.11
SC- Landless                   1,099,359    534                2,059     2,578,331      805       3,203       55.58
Total ST families              3,260,229   1480                2,203     6,964,720     1939       3,592       63.06
ST- Landholding                  551,211    233                2,366      771,239       286       2,697       13.99
ST- Landless                   2,709,018   1247                2,172     6,193,481     1653       3,747       72.47


                                        Non Forest income by Type of Household

                                             2005                                    2009
     Non Forest                                                                                                %
                                                                                                          increase in
        Type of               Total                               Total                  Avg
                                         No.of HH Avg income                No.of HH                        income
      Household            income(Rs)                          income(Rs)              income
Total- All households         88,154,022       5035     17,508 132,382,344        5172 25,596                   46.19
Total Landless                54,192,889       4144     13,077 83,099,899         4281 19,411                   48.43
Total Landholding             33,961,132        891     38,116 49,282,445          891 55,311                   45.11
Total - SC families           16,032,198        965     16,614 24,086,619          987 24,404                   46.89
SC- Landholding                5,079,036        155     32,768    7,677,536        155 49,532                   51.16
SC- Landless                  10,953,163        810     13,522 16,409,083          832 19,722                   45.85
Total ST families             33,266,822       1941     17,139 49,146,112         1991 24,684                   44.02
ST- Landholding               12,953,148        305     42,469 17,085,781          305 56,019                    31.9
ST- Landless                  20,313,674       1636     12,417 32,060,332         1686 19,016                   53.15

                                                         116
Report 2

                        Decline in seasonal migration for employment.
                     % Migration within District % Migration outside District      Total Migration
Base line                       11%                          3%                          14%
2009 (From DRS)                  4%                          2%                           6%

% Of VSSs that have reported incidence of migration
Report for Base line is for 2003, Report for 2009 is from Study of Socioeconomic Impacts undertaken by DRS


Report 3

Report 3 : No of functioning VSS undertaking forest management tasks according to their covenants and agreed procedures.

                                Total No of VSS with       No.off VSS surveyed
    Name of the Division       approved micro plans          and categorised            A         B          C          D
Adilabad                                 321                        295                66.8      23.4       9.8         0
Bellampally                              192                        184                82.6      16.3       1.1         0
Jannaram (WLM) (T)                       73                          69                 42       52.2       5.8         0
Kagaznagar                               88                          86                59.3      38.4       2.3         0
Mancherial                               112                        112                82.1       17        0.9         0
Nirmal                                   201                        185                1.1       29.2       69.2       0.5
Chittoor West                            120                        115                19.1      52.2       26.1       2.6
Nellore                                  162                        147                23.1       49        27.9        0
Mahabubnagar                             200                        190                1.6       21.1       75.3       2.1
Bhadrachalam North                       56                          56                14.3      44.6       41.1        0
Khammam                                  110                        108                40.7      48.1       11.1        0
Kothagudem                               100                         99                10.1      63.6       26.3        0
Paloncha                                 86                          82                 39        39         22         0
Cuddapah                                 94                          90                 20       33.3       35.6       11.1
Proddatur (WL)                           88                          78                3.8       67.9       26.9       1.3
Medak                                    202                        180                 20       30.6       42.8       6.7
Kamareddy                                83                          62                6.5       30.6       58.1       4.8
Nizamabad                                119                        100                 20        25         41         14
Kakinada                                 518                        409                39.6      30.6       24.9       4.9
Srikakulam                               241                        239                20.9      29.3       35.1       14.6
Vizianagaram                             193                        183                 18       31.7       47.5       2.7
Narsipatnam                              286                        268                19.4      34.7       38.4       7.5
Paderu                                   298                        297                18.2      29.6        34        18.2
Visakhapatnam                            305                        275                18.2      27.6       46.5       7.6
Karimnagar East                          126                        126                17.5      42.9       39.7        0
Karimnagar West                          233                        228                0.9       20.2       73.7       5.3
Warangal North                           92                          86                4.7       30.2        64        1.2
Warangal South                           113                        109                7.3       68.8       23.9        0
WLM Achampet                             33                          31                12.9      41.9       45.2        0
WL Chittoor East                         126                        115                2.6       60.9       36.5        0
WLM Tirupathi                            14                          14                21.4      57.1       21.4        0
WL Rajampet                              54                          52                1.9       30.8       67.3        0
Total                                   5039                        4670               25.8      33.9       35.6       4.6




                                                            117
Report 4


Report - 4
                                                                         No. of                                Financial
Sl.No.     Income Generation Activity   No.of VSS's   No. of Clusters
                                                                        Members
                                                                                     Units      Physical
                                                                                                             (Rs. In Lakhs)
  1      Timber                            562                                       Cmt.        57869.71          2725.18
  2      Poles                            2,252                                      Nos      3,169,904.12         1342.22
  3      Firewood                         3,823                                      Tons     1,905,866.03         6135.68
  4      Pulpwood                          215                                       Tons       36,508.20           688.12
  5      Long Bamboo                       307                                       Nos      6,949,677.00          549.10
  6      Bamboo Industrial                 399                                       Tons     1,234,515.92          275.98
  7      Adda Leaf Plates                  800              43             20,478   Bundles    656,989.28           220.04
  8      Agarbathi Making                  157              22              6,452    Tons          669.69             99.73
  9      Amla based activity               100                               939     Tons            96.63             6.34
  10     Apiculture                        229                              2,275    Kgs        11,030.50             13.88
  11     Bamboo based activity              6                                 99      Ls          1,051.00             2.52
  12     Beedileaf collection             1,429                           116,330    SBs      3,737,477.67         3950.49
  13     Community Based Eco-Tourism        10              20               147      Ls             19.00            40.56
  14     Embroidery                         2                                 40      Ls          8,700.00             3.23
  15     Fodder grass                      585                             35,522    Qtls       34,762.89          1303.15
  16     Pisciculture                       61                              1,738    Tons            50.30            12.46
  17     Vermi Compost                    1,183                            12,053    Tons         3,484.05          106.09
  18     Others                           2,551                            88306      Ls      7,385,665.41         1166.92
                        Total                                             284,379                               18,641.68




                                                            118
Report 5

                                 No of meetings of Managing Committee held                      No of meetings of General Body held during
                                                   during

                         Total  Yearly                                                         Yearly
Sl. No. Name of Circle                 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09        2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09
                         VSS No Target                                                         Target
  1           2             3      4      5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12     13      14      15      16      17      18      19
  1    Adilabad            1015 4060 4470 11396 11720 11628 10628 10524 10245 2030                         994 2035 2144 1990 2100 2040 2030
  2    Ananthapur           120   480   576 1360 1368 1379 1325 1345 1375         240                      160   301   302   299   275   240   238
  3    Guntur               162   648   615 1531 1537 1553 1575 1498 1510         324                      142   325   330   286   308   300   296
  4    Hyderabad            200   800   832 2036 2563 2149 2148 2150 2200         400                      418   440   396   429   412   402   400
  5    Khammam              356 1424 2190 5117 5269 5319 5289 5215 5150           712                      487   992   937   890   724   712   712
  6    Kurnool              184   736   510 1900 2078 2159 2170 2200 2195         368                      101   784   990 1044    368   368   368
  7    Nizamabad            404 1616 1284 3405 3080 3747 3740 3725 3708           808                      389   771   762   763   800   810   808
  8    Rajamundry           518 2072 1897 5163 5166 5029 4958 5010 5010 1036                              3620 5420 5414 5415 2150 1850 1850
  9    Visakhapatnam       1318 5272 7937 19093 19235 19364 18558 17550 17750 2636                        2030 3374 3365 3124 2612 2620 2612
  10   Warangal             576 2304 2111 6278 6381 6451 6258 5980 6025 1152                               753 1766 1754 1788 1650 1485 1152
  11   Wlm Tirupathi        194   776 1126 2535 2619 2412 2512 2498 2502          388                      256   530   562   390   410   390   386
  12   PT Srisailam          33   132   269   737   853   901   902   900   875    66                      161   352   264   169   128   124   122
       Grand Total         5080 20320 23817 60551 61869 62091 60063 58595 58545 10160                     9511 17090 17220 16587 11937 11341 10974
                                        Average Meetings per VSS     11.13 PM                                            Average Meetings per VSS   2.66 Pannum




                                                                             119
Report 6: Employment Generation (Number of Mandays)

                                        2002-2003                                  2003-2004                                  2004-2005                                2005-2006
Sl.No.            Division     ST       SC       Oth       Total        ST        SC        Oth        Total        ST       SC       Oth       Total     ST         SC       Others       Total
  1      Adilabad             1471           0         0    1471       52317       2325      4191      58833       336773   25663     36778     399214    269404     43910         25333    338647
  2      Bellampally          11840          0   2618      14458       123482     20105     20873      164460      179225   37659     43171     260055    191328    100806         80433    372567
  3      Jannaram (WLM) (T)   1444      434        25       1903       59160      29114      4646      92920       96205    54499     24078     174782    271889     96320         57933    426142
  4      Kagaznagar                                                0   85056      51085     56548      192689      158262   72449     143792    374503    124613     72401     160969       357983
  5      Mancherial                 0   511            0     511       31640      32829     30465      94934       111329   93204     83576     288109    141647    141373     112122       395142
  6      Nirmal                                                    0   212153     55140     103250     370543      236651   68856     109463    414970    122936     49960         75205    248101
  7      Chittor West                                              0   30807      53964     157765     242536      39877    54203     218493    312573     34159     21520     116719       172398
  8      Nellore                                                   0   53052      80960     58078      192090      357301   401480    328499    1087280   307125    312228     310925       930278
  9      Mahabubnagar                                              0         67        71      513        651      254722   56841     242266    553829     97415     21545     110518       229478
 10      Bhadrachalam North                                        0   134265      2447      9025      145737      64119      880      3952      68951     67076      1246         4655      72977
 11      Bhadrachalam South                                        0   101963      7077      7003      116043      67784     8680      3408      79872     49261      4161         2632      56054
 12      Khammam              2389      1642           0    4031       294249     73312     55890      423451      166608   52503     22916     242027    131093     53453         21548    206094
 13      Kothagudem                 0        0         0           0   252365     22763     35705      310833      123899   16077     19362     159338    396980     48722         63232    508934
 14      Paloncha             9369           0         0    9369       364492     67801     27487      459780      240070   38948     19171     298189    412182     46790         31581    490553
 15      Cuddapah                                                  0    1501       8876      6756      17133       80257    79535     111205    270997     61145    115475         98576    275196
 16      Proddatur (WL)                                            0   49242      137470    131351     318063      34508    120058    105481    260047     55262    139907         84915    280084
 17      Medak                7236      7151     6999      21386             32     471        897      1400       166756   171928    572813    911497    163310    140179     436407       739896
 18      Kamareddy            9257 15684 18904             43845                                               0   84764    44551     137882    267197     87385     54605     156410       298400
 19      Nizamabad                                                 0         46     110        232        388      47396    53624     160215    261235     40213     43788     131749       215750
 20      Kakinada                                                  0   396553     11665     24747      432965      569951   45843     96784     712578    289051     35964         58937    383952
 21      Srikakulam                                                0   12051        546      1731      14328       99142     4819      6448     110409     43457      6629         4530      54616
 22      Vizianagram            80           0         0      80         911           90         78    1079       251010    5301     33629     289940    185130      2263         13774    201167
 23      Narasipatnam         4511           5         0    4516        1431        295      1041       2767       302216    3765     14396     320377    221032      6958         32090    260080
 24      Paderu                                                    0   28387           0          0    28387       183860         0         0   183860    215442          0            0    215442
 25      Visakhapatnam        6378           0         0    6378       70824       4684     46727      122235      170285   13643     150768    334696    103408      6846         94722    204976
 26      Karimnagar East                                           0   43279      76246     105109     224634      47515    64754     81538     193807     57077     66458         75687    199222
 27      Karimnagar West                                           0   20407      33328     146912     200647      27160    61857     235424    324441     31991     61801     242601       336393
 28      Warangal North       5869      437       756       7062       217583     64746     205053     487382      21910    21037     54844      97791     80769     35203     114206       230178
 29      Warangal South                                            0   259005     17768     34231      311004      263694   19382     43439     326515    290567     26102         58967    375636
 30      WLM Achampet                                              0   13123       6498     19254      38875       19983     9672     34752      64407     36006     11058         71042    118106
 31      WL Chittoor East       77       42       399        518       172884     124004    112052     408940      116739   81461     70052     268252    116977     86345         86622    289944
 32      WLM Tirupati                                              0   19084      19606     10198      48888       35021    26914     36373      98308     31960     25914         34031     91905
 33      WL Rajampet                                               0   44540      93596     65315      203451      55299    78388     67561     201248     40893     84043         64434    189370

                   Total      59921 25906 29701 115528 3145951 1098992 1483123 5728066 5010291 1888474 3312529 10211294                                   4768183   1963973   3033505      9765661



                                                                                                                                  120
          2006-2007                         2007-2008                         2008-2009                             2009-2010                                Grand Total
  ST     SC       Others   Total   ST      SC       Others   Total   ST      SC        Others   Total   ST         SC        Others   Total        ST       SC       Others       Total
 72744   11131     12975   96850   35517   6940       5339   47796   12779   1554        2238   16571    584        925         301    1810        781589   92448     87155       961192
 66857   34562     21514 122933    39403   22014     17885   79302   5943    4717        3495   14155    261        157         229      647       618339 220020     190218       1028577
 89105   53231     39739 182075    53857   20739     17182   91778   22242   6903        3736   32881   2959       1196         850    5005        596861 262436     148189       1007486
 23599   20514     54132   98245   15981   7150      54661   77792    508     275        4916    5699                                         0    408019 223874     475018       1106911
 33346   29059     25559   87964   42002   38366     34587 114955    17192   13088      14225   44505   5991       2658        2179   10828        383147 351088     302713       1036948
 16257    8815      8775   33847   21037   7589       7977   36603   1195     902         295    2392                                         0    610229 191262     304965       1106456
 16563   11202     59633   87398   6607    5810      22225   34642   1515    3175        8988   13678    199        238        1003    1440        129727 150112     584826       864665
252773 249638 247447 749858 157423 151184 151934 460541              59611   63208      55570 178389    10844      8158       13604   32606       1198129 1266856    1166057      3631042
 72514   13498     76276 162288    30150   6072      31411   67633   3613     816        5870   10299    471        234        1887    2592        458952   99077    468741       1026770
 67614    2017      8026   77657   47002    900       4118   52020   6081         0       248    6329                                         0    386157   7490      30024       423671
 47373    4396      1082   52851   25361   3125       2460   30946   2372     587           7    2966                                         0    294114   28026     16592       338732
126449   43012     18183 187644    58704   26876     12347   97927   11135   5580        2532   19247                                         0    790627 256378     133416       1180421
194158   38848     36606 269612    82920   10176      8698 101794    23764   2789        5505   32058   2581            0       180    2761       1076667 139375     169288       1385330
201639   51616     17181 270436 108404     18936      5946 133286    12080   2647        1361   16088                                         0   1348236 226738     102727       1677701
 32620   43349     25143 101112    13019   15643     11375   40037   6389    3169       15896   25454        0          0     10596   10596        194931 266047     279547       740525
 24889   55079     35510 115478    14717   27321     16650   58688   1247    4626        3085    8958   4745       1985         847    7577        184610 486446     377839       1048895
 50787   55839 165580 272206       15576   20068     63453   99097   2498    3006        9681   15185   1301       2135        7937   11373        407496 400777     1263767      2072040
 61592   41334 112750 215676       21239   15291     40384   76914   5273    2711        5948   13932                                         0    269510 174176     472278       915964
 24174   24829     58637 107640    8539    9692      19701   37932    738     852        1307    2897        73         84       89      246       121179 132979     371930       626088
194257   18643     25922 238822    47047   9601       6920   63568   60729   3345        6031   70105   35887      16303       4186   56376       1593475 141364     223527       1958366
 21578    1417      1695   24690   21364   1179       2076   24619   34030    543        1331   35904                                         0    231622   15133     17811       264566
178422    5090      8797 192309    60736   1847       2553   65136   81276   2463         718   84457   9113        429         134    9676        766678   17483     59683       843844
169514    6691     19221 195426 234793     1944       7803 244540 503571     21633      58205 583409    1198            0         0    1198       1438266   41291    132756       1612313
187424        0        0 187424 208941          0        0 208941 928247          0         0 928247    9453            0         0    9453       1761754        0            0   1761754
229235    2652     72063 303950 208246     3138      35457 246841 450500     9334       50403 510237    9453            0       734   10187       1248329   40297    450874       1739500
 35795   30074     28674   94543   25118   39083     31260   95461   6461    4909        3466   14836                                         0    215245 281524     325734       822503
 11078   20363     78823 110264    6824    18667     51166   76657    934    2130        7536   10600                                         0     98394 198146     762462       1059002
 49020   10626     50443 110089    39806   7134      37246   84186   3284    2801        6956   13041    243            2        22      267       418484 141986     469526       1029996
134684   24211     24829 183724    64680   17690     15890   98260   18390   3206        3158   24754                                         0   1031020 108359     180514       1319893
 30299    9104     39796   79199   4140    1385       9714   15239    362         56      753    1171                                         0    103913   37773    175311       316997
 61677   37667     34298 133642    42662   15893     17670   76225   19103   9488        1989   30580   3831       2657         122    6610        533950 357557     323204       1214711
 24555   17104     33023   74682   9387    8357      10831   28575   7952    8515       10232   26699   2749       3812        1999    8560        130708 110222     136687       377617
 20894   34594     31341   86829   13086   33937     21217   68240   6501    29043      23191   58735    583       9548        3809   13940        181796 363149     276868       821813

2823485 1010205 1473673 5307363 1784288 573747 778136 3136171 2317515 218071 318872 2854458 102519                 50521      50708 203748 20012153 6829889 10480247 37322289



                                                                                                                  121
Report 7: Reinvestment by VSSsbin forest areas from generated funds

                    Division                 Timber                      Bamboo                   Pulpwood                      Total               %Reinvested
                                   No. of VSS    Amount        No. of VSS     Amount      No. of VSS Amount        No. of VSS           Amount
Total revenue       Kakinada              22        1440.209          88        298.335        20        136.454          130            1875.00
                    Nellore               0             0              2         1.98          90        517.267          92             519.247
                    Kothagudem            0             0              0           0           15         26.016          15              26.016
                    Mahabubnagar          0             0              0           0           19        116.098          19             116.098
                    Mancherial            1           3.502            4         39.85          5         23.37           10              66.722
Sub Total                               23         1443.711         94         340.165        149       819.205         266              2603.081
Reinvestment fund   Kakinada            22           41.77          88         149.167        20         68.225         130              259.162
                    Nellore             0                            2          0.99          90         258.63         92                259.62
                    Kothagudem          0                                                     15         13.008         15                13.008
                    Mahabubnagar        0                                                     19         58.049         19                58.049
                    Mancherial          1            1.75            4          19.92          5         11.69          10                33.36
Sub Total                               23           43.52          94         170.077        149       409.602         266              623.199
Amount reinvested   Kakinada            12          10.386          40          76.588         0           0            52                86.974       33.56
                    Nellore             0                                                     42         77.26          42                77.26        29.76
                    Kothagudem          0                                                      2          0.99           2                 0.99         7.61
                    Mahabubnagar        0                                                     12         23.532         12                23.532       40.54
                    Mancherial          1             1.5            0             0           2          2.4            3                 3.9         11.69
Sub Total                               13          11.886          40          76.588        58        104.182         111              192.656       30.91




                                                                      122
Report 8

 Year       % Area under         % Area            % Area      % Area under
            Dense forest        under open       under scrub      blanks
                                  forest           Forest


  1996         16.144             28.259              40.249        14.648
  2000         20.816             35.476              35.442         8.264
  2006         25.457             38.578              31.098         4.865


Source Remote Sensing analysis by Geomatcs wing of APFD



Report 9

 Year       % Area       % Area              % Area
            under       under open         under scrub
            Dense         forest             Forest
            forest
 1996        8000          10000              9990

 2008        10866         8141               9721




Source Remote Sensing analysis by DRS as part of Assessment of Ienvironmental Impacts and Impacts of Foret
Treatmenst


Report 10

 Productivity Enhancement
 Year    Dense       Open        Scrub      Total
  1996        87.04     72.12      49.51     208.67
  2002       102.98     98.67      42.97     244.62
  2006       128.05    105.57      36.56     270.18

 Units in lakh cum of Growing stock
 Source: Data from Remote sensing from Geomatics wing of APFD and State wide inventory of Forest repources of
 AP




                                               123
Report 11: Productivity assessment and yield forecast

                             Year of            Year of           Projected
       Specices              raising           harvesting           yield        Projected revenue
 Eucalyptus plantaions        2002               2010               6162             141.72094
                              2003               2011              64080           1473.830927
                              2004               2012              225272          5181.264087
                              2005               2013              189836          4366.221613
                              2006               2014              217012          4991.277808
                              2007               2015              84322           1939.395146
                              2008               2016              44855           1031.656295
                                                 2017              157687          3626.795728
                                                 2018              132882          3056.280018
                                                 2019              151905          3493.808601
                                                 2020              59023           1357.537632
                                                 2021              31395            722.083344
                                                 2022              110369          2538.489613
                                                 2023              93007           2139.170678
                                                 2024              106322          2445.408429
                                                 2025              39199           901.5774048
                                                 Total            1713327          39406.51826


Note. 1. The productivity of 7th year planatation ( 58.13 ) is taken for
calculating the yield of 1 st rotation plantations.

2. The yield of 2nd rotation plantations were calculated by taking 70% of
the productivity of the 1 st rotation plantations.( i.e.40.69 )


3. The yield of 3rd rotation plantations were calculated by taking 70% of the
productivity of the 2nd rotation plantations. ( i.e. 28.48 )


  Assessment of per Ha productivity of plantations.
Source Report by TERI for Developing Project t access Carbon revenue for Nellore Division
      Species              Year            Vol / Ha.
     Eucalyptus
     plantations             1               26.33
                             2               26.33
                             3               33.39
                             4               44.99
                             5               58.13
                             6               58.13
                             7               58.13



 Note: The productivity for the 6th and 7th years are taken at par with the productivity of 5th year.




                                                  124
Report 12

     No. of VSS members Trained in Silviculture Modern Nursary Practices,SMC activities, book keeping and
                                 Financial Management Conflict Resolutions


                       Training Type                              VSS Members            FD Staff                 NGOs &
                                                                                                                   CEWs
Forestry          (Nursery and Planting techniques, Forestry          83527                27189                    210
activities, Treatment, Practical, Forestry impact, Saturation
watershed Harvesting plans, Financial Management)


Financial Management (Training on financial management,               73580                29537                        650
Book keeping, Value addition, Marketing of NTFP,
Quantification of NTFP, Business planning, Livelihoods,
etc.,)
Social (PRA, Microplan preparation, Social auditing,                  92422                23965                       1202
Conflict resolutions)
Study Tours                                                           20249                    6614                     669

Interactive Seminars & Others (Api culture, preparation of            12833                12681                       11999
TDPs, RAP, Vermi culture)

Total                                                                282611                99986                       14730




Report 13

                                                                 No. of         Revenue                Expenditure
Income Generation Activity               No. of Clusters
                                                                Members       (Rs. In Lakhs)          (Rs. In Lakhs)
Adda Leaf Plates                               43                  20478            220.037                  66.261
Agarbathi Making                               22                   6452             99.733                 108.379
Community Based Eco-Tourism                    20                    147             40.560                 740.951
                Total                                              27077            360.330                 915.591




                                                           125
Report 14

                                        Year / Activity wise Key-Achievement Details under APCFM Scheme

 Sl.No.                     Activity                   Units   2002-2003 2003-2004        2004-2005    2005-2006    2006-2007    2007-2008    Total
          Forest Area Treated through Improvement to
                                                        Ha.       140.00       9,450.39     6,621.57     2,502.50     2,593.00     1,409.18    22,716.65
   1      Bamboo regeneration
          Forest Area Treated through Singling &
                                                        Ha.     2,970.80     133,308.21    86,595.98     1,945.25       379.03      244.25    225,443.52
   2      Coppicing
   3      Under Planting of Bamboo                      Ha.                                             15,311.66     4,915.07                 20,226.73
   4      SMM Bamboo                                    Ha.         4.00        342.28      1,052.83         2.00                   496.82      1,897.93
   5      SMM Eucalyptus                                Ha.       106.00       1,102.35     3,875.32     3,265.71     3,733.22     1,376.37    13,458.97
   6      SMM Pongamia                                  Ha.                                 5,616.49                                            5,616.49

   7      SMM NTFP                                      Ha.         3.00        674.33      2,363.77       696.36       490.29      129.93      4,357.68
   8      SMM NTFP (Pongamia)                           Ha.        64.25                                              3,739.82                  3,804.07
   9      MLCT / LRHT                                   Ha.                       79.23      650.10        133.91       275.20      151.93      1,290.36
  10      Barren Hill Afforestation                     Ha.        16.00        652.94      2,953.04     1,669.01     1,007.57      264.58      6,563.13
  11      Barren Hill Afforestation (Pongamia)          Ha.                                 1,044.00       571.50       263.00       36.00      1,914.50
  12      Gap Planting (Pongamia)                       Ha.                    1,819.94                 11,487.94                  1,003.08    14,310.96
  13      Gotti Grafting                                Ha.         0.00          37.88      395.63         12.50         0.00         0.00      446.00
  14      Preferential treatment                        Ha.        75.00        381.05      6,831.44     3,819.83     5,467.43     2,139.31    18,714.05
  15      Shelterbelt                                   Ha.                                                                                     2,308.00
  16      Mangrove plantations                          Ha.                                                                                     2,190.00
                                                                3,379.05     147,848.59 118,000.15      41,418.17    22,863.62     7,251.45   345,259.03




                                                                       126
Report 15: Plantations in VSS Forests Managed Areas and their Survival

                                      No. of                 No. of Seedlings
                                                                                                  No. of Seedlings Survived                            Survival
  Year                     Species              Area(Ha)
                                                                  Planted
                                      VSS's                                     1st Year     2nd Year     3rd Year       4th Year      5th Year       Percentage
 2003-2004   Acacia auriculiformis      8           142.00           45,780         27,307       22,333        14,522          5,666                    12.4
 2004-2005   Acacia auriculiformis      6            66.50           19,120         12,467        9,467         4,794          2,135                    11.2
 2005-2006   Acacia auriculiformis      3             4.25            1,900          1,742        1,541         1,062                                   55.9
 2006-2007   Acacia auriculiformis      10            8.89           10,021          8,079        6,469                                                 64.6
 2007-2008   Acacia auriculiformis      4             7.61            9,895          8,366                                                              84.5
 2003-2004   Achras sapota              2             1.25              400            356          263           207            192          187       46.8
 2004-2005   Achras sapota              1             0.50              200            150          100            80             80                    40.0
 2004-2005   Adhatoda zeylanica         86           17.19          151,092        113,158       83,470        60,598         21,851                    14.5
 2006-2007   Adina cordifolia           2             1.00            1,658          1,481        1,302                                                 78.5
 2003-2004   Aegle marmelos             1             0.20            8,000          7,521        6,981         5,412          5,104                    63.8
 2004-2005   Aegle marmelos             19            2.46            2,606            648          643           639             32              5      0.2
 2005-2006   Aegle marmelos             10            5.29            7,417          6,522        5,997         1,182                                   15.9
 2006-2007   Aegle marmelos             1             0.25              100             98           92                                                 92.0
 2005-2006   Agave americana            1             2.00              800            789          785           784                                   98.0
 2007-2008   Ailanthus excelsa          14           11.82           12,594         10,548          950                                                  7.5
 2004-2005   Albizia amara              7            25.00           10,200          9,600        8,040         6,470          3,279                    32.1
 2006-2007   Albizia amara              31           44.77           51,202         38,985       24,775           780                                    1.5
 2007-2008   Albizia amara              20           23.81           33,996         23,247        2,857                                                  8.4
 2006-2007   Albizia odoratissima       1             1.00            1,120          1,120          820                                                 73.2
 2007-2008   Albizia odoratissima       1             1.48            1,629          1,513        1,513                                                 92.9
 2003-2004   Alo Vera                   3             1.50           55,500         53,740       50,575        36,166         17,250       16,926       30.5
 2005-2006   Alo Vera                   1             2.00              800            786          772           759                                   94.9
 2003-2004   Annona squamosa            71           75.66           34,811         27,185       23,422        20,254         10,225        4,485       12.9
 2004-2005   Annona squamosa           106          134.54           81,088         62,699       44,616        19,568          6,511        1,600        2.0
 2005-2006   Annona squamosa            47           99.02           43,696         33,427       28,925        14,457            180                     0.4
 2006-2007   Annona squamosa            56          124.74           73,321         50,827       11,986                                                 16.3
 2007-2008   Annona squamosa            6            14.40            3,880          3,009                                                              77.6




                                                                     127
2003-2004   Artocarpus hirsutus          12        11.00       4,344        4,340      4,090       3,780      3,505    2,201   50.7
2004-2005   Artocarpus hirsutus         169       604.50     186,184      168,917    155,031     135,526    111,482            59.9
2005-2006   Artocarpus hirsutus          35       124.20      47,850       44,587     41,189      38,503                       80.5
2006-2007   Artocarpus hirsutus          4         12.00       8,800        8,105      4,220                                   48.0
2003-2004   Azadirachta Indica           48       283.19      35,260       30,290     25,610      22,409     20,155   11,680   33.1
2004-2005   Azadirachta Indica          181       122.26      56,275       50,975     42,575      37,811     28,299      850    1.5
2005-2006   Azadirachta Indica           71       148.71      60,535       51,837     44,918      28,284        154             0.3
2006-2007   Azadirachta Indica           73       218.38      93,798       81,409     64,430                                   68.7
2007-2008   Azadirachta Indica           10        12.35       5,951        4,780                                              80.3
2003-2004   Bixa orellana                11        15.00       7,000        6,889      6,542       5,050      4,600    3,095   44.2
2004-2005   Bixa orellana               210       439.25     451,922      382,967    277,355      61,845     18,303             4.1
2005-2006   Bixa orellana                28        77.00      78,150       57,346     23,758                                   30.4
2006-2007   Bixa orellana                23        81.00      42,875       23,101      2,560                                    6.0
2005-2006   Bombax ceiba                 1         10.00       6,800        6,750      6,700       6,650      6,600            97.1
2006-2007   Bombax ceiba                 1         10.00       4,000        3,800      3,700       3,692      3,682    3,681   92.0
2003-2004   Cashew                       1          0.50         200          180        160         150        145            72.5
2004-2005   Cashew                       2         19.00       3,475        2,476      2,326       2,261                       65.1
2004-2005   Cassia auriculata            16         5.00       7,000        3,307      2,254       1,391       121              1.7
2005-2006   Cassia auriculata            1          0.82         200          182        169         132                       66.0
2006-2007   Cassia auriculata            2          1.97         980          923        613                                   62.6
2007-2008   Cassia auriculata            1          1.07       1,786        1,642                                              91.9
2002-2003   Casuarina equisetifolia      4         13.00      32,500       14,000     11,700      10,625      6,175            19.0
2003-2004   Casuarina equisetifolia      6          8.80      23,000       12,310     10,560       9,684      7,321    4,436   19.3
2004-2005   Casuarina equisetifolia      17       197.71     494,024      359,060    320,216     283,987    161,399            32.7
2005-2006   Casuarina equisetifolia      12       257.50     672,500      600,738    547,343     342,065     24,000             3.6
2006-2007   Casuarina equisetifolia      8        214.00     535,000      459,053    349,420                                   65.3
2007-2008   Casuarina equisetifolia      16        59.70     148,906      115,969      4,600       4,570                        3.1
2006-2007   Chinduga                     1          2.00       2,150        1,572                                              73.1
2004-2005   Citrus aurantifolia          4          2.00         800          750        724         719       700             87.5
2005-2006   Citrus aurantifolia          3          3.00       1,200        1,155      1,105       1,055                       87.9
2006-2007   Citrus aurantifolia          1          3.00       1,200        1,185      1,179                                   98.3
2007-2008   Cochlospermum religiosum     1          0.50         320          305                                              95.3
2003-2004   Dalbergia latifolia          5          5.84       2,336        1,680       1,400      1,230       765             32.7
2006-2007   Dalbergia latifolia          18        41.83      23,088       20,132      12,274      1,980                        8.6
2007-2008   Dalbergia latifolia          12        32.35      20,706       14,907         500                                   2.4
2002-2003   Dendrocalamus strictus       1          2.00         800          795         300         220                      27.5
2003-2004   Dendrocalamus strictus      126       327.78     148,351      125,271     107,702      87,045    72,106   31,476   21.2
2004-2005   Dendrocalamus strictus      300     1,033.83     404,609      325,144     273,354     220,057   129,695    2,329    0.6
2005-2006   Dendrocalamus strictus     1,584   15,311.66   2,785,150    2,101,442   1,678,486   1,039,581    49,939   19,550    0.7
2006-2007   Dendrocalamus strictus      576     4,915.07     989,917      808,883     515,008      20,089                       2.0
2007-2008   Dendrocalamus strictus       92       496.82     160,308      132,210       9,100                                   5.7


                                                                       128
2005-2006   Dolichandrone crispa    3                   2,600       1,860      1,635                                      62.9
2006-2007   Dolichandrone crispa    9        3.46       9,613       8,930      2,333                                      24.3
2007-2008   Dolichandrone crispa    3        5.70       2,527       1,935                                                 76.6
2004-2005   Elka                    1        2.50       1,000         832         582        262                          26.2
2002-2003   Emblica officinalis     1        3.00         400         400         200        100         100        100   25.0
2003-2004   Emblica officinalis    128     186.65      81,930      68,184      59,674     52,245      45,837     23,126   28.2
2004-2005   Emblica officinalis    258     705.43     237,375     211,759     187,984    153,779     116,578     66,218   27.9
2005-2006   Emblica officinalis    214     418.81     187,792     140,812     119,808     73,804       3,200               1.7
2006-2007   Emblica officinalis    75      141.28      58,115      42,604      29,697                                     51.1
2007-2008   Emblica officinalis    43       56.46      25,320      19,113          56                                      0.2
2002-2003   Eucalyptus             22      106.00     223,160     158,873     128,817     111,927     100,069    49,963   22.4
2003-2004   Eucalyptus             358   1,102.35   1,749,108   1,560,199   1,447,739   1,321,949   1,200,442   892,703   51.0
2004-2005   Eucalyptus             861   3,951.82   5,917,516   5,174,033   4,652,738   3,923,235   3,069,727   100,821    1.7
2005-2006   Eucalyptus             714   3,321.21   4,555,177   3,924,933   3,557,358   2,411,319     115,354    47,080    1.0
2006-2007   Eucalyptus             558   3,743.22   5,550,465   4,696,325   3,419,278     147,446      62,597    50,131    0.9
2007-2008   Eucalyptus             203   1,376.37   1,809,793   1,531,450      33,826         850                          0.0
2006-2007   Euphorbia tortilis      1        4.00       2,000       1,667       1,255                                     62.8
2003-2004   Falacourtia indica      1        0.50         100         100          90         71          46              46.0
2003-2004   Feronia Elephantum      1        0.50         160         158         154        150         145       144    90.0
2003-2004   Ficus benghalensis      2        1.00         400         400         300        200         160       120    30.0
2004-2005   Ficus benghalensis      5        0.37         140         127         120        116         109        35    25.0
2005-2006   Ficus benghalensis      1        1.00         400         300         225        160                          40.0
2003-2004   Ficus religiosa         1        0.30         125         110         100         80          75              60.0
2004-2005   Ficus religiosa         4        0.32         124         115         109        106         103        38    30.6
2005-2006   Ficus religiosa         2        2.18         870         616         505        413                          47.5
2006-2007   Gardenia gummifera      1        2.00         800         800         784                                     98.0
2003-2004   Grevillea robusta       1        9.00      12,000      11,900      11,800     11,700      10,200      9,750   81.3
2004-2005   Grevillea robusta      155     689.50     997,219     911,510     836,208    749,601     659,889              66.2
2005-2006   Grevillea robusta      129     612.50   1,355,450   1,219,867   1,086,106    947,414       1,750               0.1
2006-2007   Grevillea robusta      74      226.00     454,700     413,336     359,403      2,000                           0.4
2006-2007   Hardwickia binata       2        0.54         600         500                                                 83.3
2007-2008   Hardwickia binata       6        9.03       6,762       5,650                                                 83.6
2004-2005   Henna                  128     432.76     133,235     100,873     70,503      47,572       3,589               2.7
2005-2006   Jack                    8       14.75       1,040         773        574                                      55.2
2003-2004   Jafra                   5       13.00       5,200       2,960      2,560       2,144       1,680              32.3
2004-2005   Jafra                  19       21.50       8,600       5,106      4,538       3,904         168               2.0
2003-2004   Jamun                   8       14.18       5,566       2,468      2,443       2,422       2,325       478     8.6
2004-2005   Jamun                   4        1.06         444         428        402         379         365              82.2
2003-2004   Jatropha curcas         1        3.00       1,200         900        850         765         725              60.4
2005-2006   Jatropha curcas         1        5.00       2,000       1,600      1,314                                      65.7
2004-2005   Jinne                   1        1.00         400         400        326         305         225              56.3
2006-2007   Kovela                  1        1.00         190         154                                                 81.1


                                                                129
2003-2004   Kunkudu                  1      0.86       344       213       201       199       195       193     56.1
2003-2004   Leucaena leucocephala    1      0.50       200       150       120       100        80               40.0
2007-2008   Leucaena leucocephala    1      0.50       555       500                                             90.1
2003-2004   Limonia elephantum       51    35.08    15,515    12,252     11,319    10,463     9,593     6,882    44.4
2004-2005   Limonia elephantum       21    33.25    13,880    12,444     10,067     3,547     2,565       302     2.2
2005-2006   Limonia elephantum       11     6.97     3,029     2,301      2,079     1,683                        55.6
2006-2007   Limonia elephantum       1      0.75       300       150        149                                  49.7
2003-2004   Maddi                    9     12.71     5,082     4,315      3,756     3,544     3,215     2,741    53.9
2004-2005   Maddi                    22    28.19    16,264    13,670     10,840     8,857     5,405              33.2
2005-2006   Maddi                    18    21.45     9,780     7,652      6,558     4,963                        50.7
2006-2007   Maddi                    17    38.30    13,118     6,468      3,976                                  30.3
2007-2008   Maddi                    16    18.30     7,317     5,451                                             74.5
2004-2005   Maddina Kommu            8      5.00     2,050       150        100        75                         3.7
2003-2004   Madhuca Indica           12    24.77     4,907     3,257      2,886     2,511     2,154     1,395    28.4
2004-2005   Madhuca Indica           3      2.21       884       833        823       813       789        20     2.3
2005-2006   Madhuca indica           1      1.00       140       138        136       134                        95.7
2006-2007   Madhuca Indica           1      0.50       140       120         83                                  59.3
2004-2005   Mangifera indica         1     40.00     5,600     5,600      5,100     4,200     2,800     1,900    33.9
2006-2007   Mangifera indica         1      9.00     4,000     2,400      1,440                                  36.0
2003-2004   Medicinal Plants         1      2.00       800       800        550      550       550       550     68.8
2006-2007   Medicinal Plants         1      9.00    11,000     9,000      7,500                                  68.2
2003-2004   Mesua ferrea             4     90.00    17,700    17,330     16,800    16,380    15,845    15,300    86.4
2004-2005   Mesua ferrea             20   781.00   128,300   123,800    118,950   115,200   111,905   101,470    79.1
2002-2003   MFP                      1      2.00     2,220     1,998      1,332       666                        30.0
2003-2004   MFP                      9     14.50    16,095    14,708     13,209    11,378     9,713     7,937    49.3
2004-2005   MFP                      13    19.00    20,380    18,342     14,833    10,499     6,327              31.0
2005-2006   MFP                      1      2.00       800       720        560       320       160              20.0
2004-2005   Millingtonia hortensis   1     25.00     5,800     5,600      5,300     5,000     4,500     4,000    69.0
2006-2007   Mitragyna parviflora     1                 270       243        219                                  81.1
2007-2008   Mitragyna parviflora     4      4.08     4,914     4,534                                             92.3
2006-2007   Mitragyna parvifolia     1      0.54       616       431       420                                   68.2
2007-2008   Mitragyna parvifolia     8     18.50    17,168    14,327                                             83.5
2006-2007   Mitragyna purviflora     1      0.50       555       527       344                                   62.0
2007-2008   Mitragyna purviflora     1      1.00     1,111       811                                             73.0
2006-2007   Mokaeb                   4      7.50     8,305     5,954      4,370                                  52.6
2006-2007   Mokkam                   1      2.00     2,222     1,321                                             59.5
2004-2005   Munuga Grafts            1      0.68       200       182        164      150       145               72.5
2006-2007   Nagur                    1      1.00     1,111       999        990                                  89.1
2004-2005   Nela Vemu                8      3.10     1,275       100         80       50                          3.9
2003-2004   Neredu                   1      1.00       400       292        198      111        32                8.0
2004-2005   Neredu                   1      2.50     1,000       820        622      318                         31.8
2003-2004   NTFP                     1      0.86     1,432     1,250        860      860       860               60.1
2004-2005   NTFP                     2      2.00       800       800        720      600                         75.0
2006-2007   NTFP                     3      7.25     2,350     2,350      2,140                                  91.1
2007-2008   NTFP                     1      5.00     2,000     2,000                                            100.0
2004-2005   NTFP - Tectona grandis   1      1.00     1,111     1,111      1,008      913       769               69.2


                                                                  130
Patalagiridi               20        9.35        6,927       5,204      3,469       2,228                          32.2
Pedda Manu                  1        5.00        5,555       5,000      3,000                                      54.0
Pedda Manu                 16       17.30       18,540      16,417        503                                      2.7
Pedda Vepa                  2        1.00        2,059       1,805                                                 87.7
Pheronia Elephantium        2        0.36          344         302         291        290         289       287    83.4
Pheronia Elephantium        1                       86          77          77         77          77              89.5
Phyllanthus emblica         1                      200         170         170        170         170       170    85.0
Phyllanthus Emblica         1                      200         170         170        170         170              85.0
Poda Patri                 80      162.70       63,045      37,720      26,442     18,608         267              0.4
Poda Patri                  3                    7,800       7,020       6,910                                     88.6
Pongamia pinnata           14        64.25      16,725      15,773      13,736       5,232       5,068     1,379   8.2
Pongamia pinnata          523     1,819.94     556,970     468,685     398,463     328,039     268,818   166,443   29.9
Pongamia pinnata         1,582    6,660.49   2,600,114   2,242,009   1,903,622   1,535,960   1,093,004   171,059   6.6
Pongamia pinnata         1,571   12,059.44   3,934,765   2,987,478   2,177,908   1,404,198     147,153    84,730   2.2
Pongamia pinnata          644     4,002.82   1,524,495   1,212,481     700,942      88,141      33,465    30,700   2.0
Pongamia pinnata          190     1,039.08     419,588     366,233      65,970                                     15.7
Premna tomentosa            1         6.00       2,125       2,110       2,105      2,100                          98.8
Premna tomentosa            1         5.00       2,000       1,980       1,970                                     98.5
Pterocarpus marsupium      12         7.06       9,420       8,135       4,668                                     49.6
Pterocarpus marsupium       1         1.00       1,111       1,054                                                 94.9
Pterocarpus santalinus      9         9.80       3,913       3,433      3,055       2,870       2,582       295    7.5
Pterocarpus santalinus      1         1.83         733         634        546         462                          63.0
Pterocarpus santalinus     14        25.83      13,703      12,022      6,837       2,400                          17.5
Pterocarpus santalinus      6         2.68       5,132       4,499                                                 87.7
Punuga                      1         1.00         400         326        305                                      76.3
Radermachera xylocapa       1                    5,730       5,157      4,641                                      81.0
Radermachera xylocapa       4         1.00       2,228       1,574                                                 70.6
Radermachera xylocarpa      1         1.00       1,111       1,049        948                                      85.3
Randia candolieana          1         5.00       5,500       4,950                                                 90.0
Rauvolfia serpentina       49         0.65       5,875       4,248      2,934       1,996                          34.0
Red orchard                 1         0.55         616         539        539                                      87.5
Redamachera                 2         6.75       6,050       5,012      1,300                                      21.5
Redamachera                 1                      605         482                                                 79.7
Reeta                       1       25.00        5,000       2,300      2,300       2,300                          46.0
Rudraganapa                 1                    1,546       1,428                                                 92.4
Sadanam Strictus            1         2.00         800         750        700                                      87.5
Sapindus emarginata         1                      200         170        170         170         170       170    85.0
Sapindus emarginata         2        1.00          436         232        232         232         232              53.2
Sapindus emarginatus       28       13.34        5,848       4,793      4,089       3,569       2,309      2,035   34.8
Sapindus emarginatus       31       28.97       12,388      11,091      9,496       8,264       5,246         82   0.7
Sapindus emarginatus       25       25.56       10,664       9,584      8,562       7,190                          67.4
Sapindus emarginatus        9       10.90        4,356       3,847      3,465                                      79.5
Sapindus emarginatus        3        3.30        1,320         757                                                 57.3


                                                                      131
Sara                        1     0.75       300                                                    0.0
Saraca asoca                1    40.00     4,000      4,000     3,750     3,200    2,800    2,000   50.0
Schrebera swietinioides     1     2.50     2,750      1,883                                         68.5
Schrebera switenoides       1              3,431      3,088     2,779                               81.0
Seema Rooba                 7     4.03     1,644      1,561     1,380     1,209    1,074     929    56.5
Seema Rooba                13    12.12     5,223      3,875     3,835     3,693    3,180            60.9
Seema Rooba                 9    19.96     2,722      2,270     2,231     1,771                     65.1
Seema Rooba                 5    22.00    25,642     18,554     3,600                               14.0
Seema Rooba                 2     3.25     3,860      3,376                                         87.5
Seesam                      3     8.50     9,133      7,062     4,960                               54.3
Seesam                      1     1.75     1,388      1,115                                         80.3
Sinduga                     1     1.10     1,220      1,212     1,209                               99.1
Sinduga                     1     1.50     1,666        576                                         34.6
Sitrus Media                1     0.94       200        190       189      188      187             93.5
Soyamida Febrifuga          1     0.58       168        168       150      121                      72.0
Soyamida Febrifuga          1                940        846       761                               81.0
Sterculia urens             5     6.00     2,400      1,943     1,052       665     306             12.8
Sterculia urens            10    19.00     6,100      5,680     4,214     3,420                     56.1
Sterculia Urens            12    18.19     8,708      6,479     5,862     4,023                     46.2
Sterculia urens            19    51.07    16,912      8,948     7,027                               41.6
Sterculia urens             1     0.50       121        110                                         90.9
Syzygium cumini           121   184.32    73,932     67,263    61,070    53,817   49,204   38,015   51.4
Syzygium cumini           234   477.70   187,145    169,637   139,370   108,661   82,801   17,651   9.4
Syzygium cumini           129   307.74   127,903    116,182   100,427    77,553      332            0.3
Syzygium cumini            66   127.83    56,169     50,612    40,624                               72.3
Syzygium cumini            50    58.45    26,013     19,288     1,023                               3.9
Syzygium Jamblanum          1     0.50       160        150       148       145      142     142    88.8
Syzygium Jamblanum          1     0.94       200        195       194       193      188            94.0
Tamarindus Indica           1     3.00       400        400       200       100      100      100   25.0
Tamarindus Indica         130   156.46    57,027     46,123    38,961    31,635   25,178   15,134   26.5
Tamarindus Indica          73    68.93    27,559     23,181    19,276    15,792    5,990            21.7
Tamarindus Indica          26    45.18    21,642     19,510    17,424     7,766                     35.9
Tamarindus Indica           1                500        460                                         92.0
Tarenna asiatica            1    15.00     2,000      1,600     1,400     1,000     800      800    40.0



                                                   132
Teak                    34    66.23     136,617     73,037       57,559    43,665    24,485   1,666   1.2
Teak                   556   617.80   1,034,826    747,298      565,790   385,739   235,073           22.7
Teak                    49   131.50      60,808     45,310       43,150    21,196       314           0.5
Teak                    89   234.81     159,066    131,175       69,073     5,509                     3.5
Teak                    55   148.24     157,662    118,470        2,821                               1.8
Terminalia arjuna       13    15.25       7,100      6,319        5,844     5,537     5,207   4,689   66.0
Terminalia arjuna       15    24.00       9,600      8,838        8,481     8,179     7,741           80.6
Terminalia arjuna       20    44.05      18,295     16,271       15,467     8,965       289           1.6
Terminalia arjuna       12    31.25      12,500     11,649       10,564                               84.5
Terminalia arjuna       11    15.25       6,100      5,294                                            86.8
Terminalia pallida       3     2.16         860                                                       0.0
Thani                    2     2.00         800           613       347       274      120            15.0
Tinospora cordifolia    60     1.82      10,910         8,487     5,703     3,647                     33.4
Vitex negundo            3     0.41       1,025           879       601       390                     38.0
Zizyphus mauritiana      1     2.00         800           800       765                               95.6




                                                  133
Report 16: Community Land Planting

Year                         Block           Avenue
                           Plantation       Plantation


2004-05                          961.2               415.6

2005-06                         1050.1               288.5

2006-07                            609               249.6

2007-08                         1182.4                571

2008-09                          403.7                   0

Total                           4206.4           1524.7



Report 17: Group Farm Forestry

             Year              Number of seedlings planted
                                       (in lakhs)
           2004-05                          5.5
           2005-06                         72.15
           2006-07                         89.07
           2007-08                        563.72
           2008-09                        39.435
            Total                         769.875



Report 18: Percentage of planting material from modren nursery techniques.
                                                                              % of seedlings
                             Total no. of             No. of seedlings from   from improved
        Specices           seedlings planted           improved sources          sources

   Eucalyptus clones           19805219                      19805219             100.00
    NWFP specices
  (Pongamia, emblica,
   Tamarind, Annona
  squamosa, Syzigium
      cumini etc)              11092350                       6756364             60.91

     Misc specices (
  Bamboo, Azadirachta,
  Grevillea robusta etc)       9119288                           0                 0.00

 LRHT Specices ( Teak ,
   Yegisa, Rosewood)           1607315                        647944              40.31
 Casuarina equisetifolia       1905930                         556058             29.18
         Total                43530102                       27765584.5           63.78

                                               134
Report 19: Key Achievement In Soil And Moisture Conservation During Project Period

                                                                                                                              Water Holding    Water Impounded in a
 Sl.No.        Type of Structure   Unit 2002-03   2003-04    2004-05     2005-06       2006-07        2007-08       Total     Capacity (LCM)   Rainy Season (LCM)


          Staggered Trenches       No.   3,322    157,551    206,129         113,423     73,052         83,414      636,891
   1                                                                                                                                   5.10                  50.95
          Contineous Contour
                                   Cmt. 45,240 2,385,493 1,454,110 1,436,237            314,684       285,203 5,920,967
   2      Trenches                                                                                                                    59.21                592.10

          Check Dams               No.      46     12,778         367           104              42             2    13,339
   3                                                                                                                                333.47                1333.88

          Mini Percolation Tanks   No.      62     10,971       4,386         10,506      6,149            933       33,007
   4                                                                                                                                825.18                3300.70

          Percolation Tanks        No.      22       4,714        889           599         109             51        6,384
   5                                                                                                                                319.20                1276.80

          Rock Fill Dams           No.     340       7,820    10,562            819         347             80       19,968
   6                                                                                                                                   9.98                  99.84

          Sunken Gully Pits        No.   2,290    125,039       4,374          4,793        198            275      136,969
   7                                                                                                                               3424.22              13696.87
                                                                                                                                  4976.35              20351.13




                                                                       135
Report 20: Details of NGOs associated - Names of NGOs associated

Number of Areas of association                                Number Services provided
NGOs                                                          of CEWs
associated                                                    associated




321 NGOs     The designated role of NGOs in the project is that 991     CEWs       are    involved    in
have been    of a facilitator for planning and capacity-building CEWs   mobilization of VSS members
associated   of      the    community,       and    strengthening       for    execution of works,
with 2,271   communication and coordination with the Forest             conducting of General Body and
VSSs         Department.                                                Executive Committee meetings
             Conducting Awareness campaigns to the VSS                  and imparting of skills to VSS
             community.                                                 members as trainers. They also
             Conducting Training programs for the VSS for               help VSS members in rendering
             capacity Building and Value Addition.                      accounts and Book keeping.
             Awareness programs in the aspects of book-                 They work as liaison between
             keeping                                                    VSS members and Forest
             Identification of TOT for training on Micro Plans.         department staff. CEWs were
             Micro Plan Preparation.                                    trained in modern silvicultural
             Strengthening of VSS institution through promotion         techniques, Nursery practices,
             of User Group in VSS.                                      SMC          works,       Social
             Promotion of VSS federation for better                     mobilization, gender issues,
             institutional development of VSS and NTFP                  Conflict resolution. They were
             Marketing.                                                 effective             community
             Lobbying with GCC full form on VSS rights over             silviculturists for the VSS
             NTFP selling.                                              community.
             Facilitator n conflict resolutions.
             Enhancing income generating activities.
             Exclusive campaigns, awareness programmes for
             women on enhancing their participation in VSS.
             Regular monitoring of the VSS.
             Active participation as member of advisory
             committee.
             Organizing exposure visits.
             Developing a pool of resource persons
             Documentation and database on usage of
             Medicinal Plants.
             Documentation of case studies.
             Process documentation as VSS level.
             Developing participatory self monitoring and
             evaluation systems. Publication of District level
             News letter.




                                                   136
Report 21: Details of livelihood plans prepared will be furnished separately

 Sl. No              Division     Number of Livelihood     Major livelihood activities included in
                                development plans prepared                the plan
      1 Adilabad                           129              MFP Collection,

      2 Bellampally,                       118              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
          Jannaram (WL)
      3 Kagaznagar                          74              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making

      4 Mancherial                          9               Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
      5 Nirmal                              25              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
      6 Chittoor West                       55              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making

      7 Nellore                             20              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making

      8 Mahabubnagar                       115              MFP Collection, Leaf Plate making,
                                                            Neem Cake preparation
      9 Bhadrachalam (N)                    26              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     10 Bhadrachalam (S)                    30              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     11 Khammam                             98              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     12 Kothagudem                          98              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     13 Paloncha                            80              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     14 Kadapa                              37              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     15 Proddatur (WL)                      13              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     16 Medak                               19              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     17 Kamareddy                           24              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     18 Nizamabad                           18              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     19 Kakinada                           123              MFP Collection, Bamboo harvesting,
                                                            Leaf plate making
     20 Srikakulam                          40              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     21 Vizianagaram                        80              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     22 Narsipatnam                        257              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     23 Paderu                              92              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     24 Visakhapatnam                      107              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     25 Karimnagar (E)                      73              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     26 Karimnagar (W)                      80              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     27 Warangal (N)                        81              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     28 Warangal (S)                        69              Agarbathi stick making, MFP
                                                            Collection, Leaf plate making
     29 WLM Achampet                        21              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     30 WLM Chittoor (E)                    54              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     31 WLM Tirupathi                       1               MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
     32 WLM Rajampet                        17              MFP Collection, Leaf plate making
                                           2283



                                                  137
Report 22: Village infrastructure improvement works carried out in Tribal and Non
Tribal VSSs.
 Sl.No.        Type of Infrastructure      No. of Units    No. of Tribal   No. of Non-Tribal
                                                          VSSs covered       VSSs covered
    1     Adda leafe Machine                    1               1                  0
    2     Bamboo cutting machine                6               6                  0
    3     Bore well                            164              91                58
    4     Bus Shelter                          25               11                14
    5     Cattle pond                          29               7                 14
    6     CC Drain                              1               0                  1
    7     CC Road                               1               0                  1
    8     Common Facilitation Center           11               10                 1
    9     Community Hall                       132              73                53
   10     Compound Wall                         2               2                  0
   11     Crowbars                            1050              44                 1
   12     Crowbars&Speades                     328              23                18
   13     Culvert                               1               1                  0
   14     Decilting of Tank                    78               51                 1
   15     Driking Water facility               74               41                27
   16     Form Pond                             3               1                  1
   17     Implements                           664              40                 8
   18     Implements (Agricultural kits)      11178            385                20
   19     Ippa Mill Shed                        5               4                  1
   20     Kirana Shop                           1               1                  0
   21     Leaf Plate Making Machines            7               2                  5
   22     Milch Cattles                        14               1                  0
   23     Mini Water Tank                       6               2                  4
   24     Oil Engine                            4               4                  0
   25     Oil Engine/Solar Lamp                28               24                 0
   26     Others                               15               7                  6
   27     Pedal Machines                        5               3                  2
   28     Peetalu-Big                          98               18                 7
   29     Peetalu-Small                       1767              20                 9
   30     Pipe Line                             2               1                  1
   31     Plouh Bulllocks                      12               1                  0
   32     Power Spray                           1               0                  1
   33     Preparation School gate               1               0                  1
   34     Rachhakatta                          26               16                 9
   35     Sewing machine                       657             146                 2
   36     Sheeps                               16               1                  0
   37     Spades                              1050              44                 1
   38     Storage Tank                          3               1                  2
   39     Tamarid Machine                       3               2                  0
   40     Tent House                            4               2                  2
   41     Utensils                              1               1                  0
   42     Water Tank                            3               2                  1




                                               138
Report 23: Resettlement Action Plan

Sl.No. Name of the        VSSs       VSSs    Estimated No. of   No. of  Balance       Eligible PAFs and Sanction Amount     Expenditure
         Division     Investigated found fit   PAFs     Plans    Plans   VSSs    Land    Land     Total    No. of     Total  up to this
                        till now    for RAP           Prepared approved         Owned Less       No. of    PAFs     Amount    month
                                                                                 PAFs    PAFs     PAFs Grounded Sanctioned     (Rs.in
                                                                                                                     (Rs.in   Lakhs)
                                                                                                                     Lakhs)
  1         2                3         4         5        6        7       8       9       10      11        12        13        14
  1   Visakhapatnam           219      139      3532      139         139     0   2657     875    3532     3532     953.413     935.290
  2   Narsipatnam             205      144      3442      144         144     0   1993   1449     3442     3442     931.413     931.413
  3   Paderu                  176      128      4903      128         128     0   3396   1507     4903     4903    1330.209    1330.209
  4   Vizianagaram             14       12       481       12          12     0    388      93     481      481     130.420     128.148
  5   Srikakuklam              44        4       125        4           4     0     39      86     125      125      34.032      34.032
      Circle Total            658      427     12483      427         427     0   8473   4010    12483    12483   3379.487    3359.092
  6    Kothagudem               1        1        19        1     1           0     12    7         19       19       4.863       4.863
  7   Medak                              2        26        2           2     0     24       2      26       26       7.566        6.64
      G. Total                659      430     12528      430         430     0   8509   4019    12528    12528    3391.916    3370.595




                                                                   139
Annex 3:

               STATUS REPORT ON TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENT
                          (Research under APCFM)


1. BACKGROUND

Research and Development constitutes an essential component of any organization for
delivering the desired output which when operationalized in the field gives a spectacular
increase in the productivity both quantitatively and qualitatively. The APFD did recognize
this principle and prepared a forestry research and development plan for the period of five
years from 1995-2002 which was implemented under APFP. The main focus of research
endeavor during the APFP was the genetic improvement of the planting stock and in order to
achieve that objective, tree improvement works of many economically important species
were launched; breeding plan on a long-term perspective was designed and executed;
domestication strategy of some of the secondary species of economic importance was
evolved and implemented; clonal technology as a means to transfer the genetic gain from the
preliminary selection to increase the productivity of the plantation was introduced extensively
for few species; seed source improvement works including the expansion of seed production
areas, establishment of clonal seed orchards and seedling seed orchards were initiated; the
system of propagation of planting stock and the structure of the propagation units in the
nursery was improved and the extension of the research outputs to the field was strengthened.

2. RESEARCH PLAN FOR CONTINUITY OF THE PROJECTS INITIATED
   UNDER APFP

In order to further consolidate and expand the benefits achieved from the investment made
during the first phase attempt in the APFP, the PIP of APCFM Project envisages that
additional investments are needed in maintenance and expansion of Clonal Multiplication
Areas (CMAs) which can serve to the requirement of improved material for planting in VSS
areas, Group Farm Forestry Lands and Community land plantations. Therefore the Research
projects initiated under APFP are being continued under APCFM Project and a number of
CMAs, CSOs, Progeny and Clonal Test plots, established under APFP are included in the
Plan for maintenance. Data is being collected regularly from the test plots and best
performing clones and families and individuals within families are being shortlisted. CMAs
are being used to produce high yielding clones for utilizing under the project. The present
project wise status of progress is given in Annexure - I.


3. RESEARCH PLAN AS APPROVED IN APCFM PROJECT (Salient features)

In the APCFM project, while sustaining the critical importance on optimizing the growth and
the productivity through the tree improvement and planting stock improvement programme,
initiatives on the new areas were attempted in consonance with the objective of poverty
alleviation of the APCFM project as a whole. The salient features of the Research Plan are:

       Investments are designed to consolidate and expand the benefits achieved under AP
       Forestry Project (APFP)
       Research Plan attempts to integrate with the prioritized research themes of the
       department and provide continuity and flexibility to the research projects initiated

                                             140
       under AP Forestry Project.
       It emphasizes site-specific package of practices supported by good extension strategy
       to accelerate production and improve yield by producing superior planting stock.
       Allocation of research programmes to the respective regional centres is based on the
       facilities existing and relevance of programme in that zone.

   Some of the new areas where the emphasis has been given are development of site-
   specific matching clones; natural forest management trials to address the impact on the
   growth pattern of different species which were subjected to the various treatments as a
   part of silvicultural intervention; innovative practices of value addition to enhance the
   livelihood of VSS members and more emphasis on the training module through the
   technology dissemination centres (TDC).The forest research programme under CFM
   project has tried to maintain its desired project objective for improved productivity of the
   timber and NWFP species through the continuous supply of improved clonal planting
   stock; through the supply of genetically and physiologically upgraded reproductive
   propagules from the established seed stands, clonal seed orchards and seedling seed
   orchards. The productivity enhancement of the established stands through the adoption of
   several innovative cultural methods like increasing use of biofertilizers, optimum soil and
   moisture conservation practices has been given importance.
The main components of the Research Plan under APCFM are Multilocational Clonal Trials,
Natural Forest Management trials, Capacity Building by transfer of research technology in
the newly created Technology Dissemination Centers, and more emphasis on Training
Programme. However, the programmes undertaken under APFP such as planting structure
improvement, tree improvement, improvement of seed quality etc. are continued in APCFM.
Various Research Projects included under APCFM Project and their current status is
sequentially listed in Annexure - II. These projects are allotted to the respective Regional
Research Centres based on the facilities existing and relevance of program in that zone where
the center is located. Each project is prepared duly listing out the objective, methodology,
statistical design, timing, collaboration etc.


3.1. Multilocational Clonal Trials

One of the important projects of Research Plan under APCFM Project is conducting
Multilocational Clonal Trials (MLCTs). Testing of clones (MLCT) as a part of Clonal
Forestry Programme was introduced as a new activity in CFM programme since 2003-04 by
Research and Development wing to assess the performance of different clones of different
species across a wide range of agro-climatic zones. The ultimate objective of this newly
introduced research programme is to shortlist the site-specific clones of various species, so
far as the qualitative and quantitative parameters of the clones are concerned.
The objective of MLCTs is to study the following:
a) To identify "stable" clones which can be planted with confidence over a wide range of
   soil types, and also "reactive" clones adapted to key plantation sites.
b) Investigations to characterize juvenile-mature correlations in pulpwood and timber
   species and to refine selection criteria so that they more accurately reflect utilization
   value.
c) To fully capture benefits offered by clonal forestry, it may be necessary to tailor specific
   silviculture regimes to individual clones. MLCTs help in determining the extent to which

                                             141
   requirements with respect to a range of silvicultural parameters ­ nursery silviculture, site
   preparation and soil moisture status at planting, soil nutrient status and fertilizer
   applications and spacing ­ vary with clone.
d) MLCTs also help in extensively studying the genotype X environment interaction

From 2003-04 to 2005-06, the focus was on NWFP species; and from 2006-07 to 2007-08,
the focus was on the timber and pulpwood species. The statement showing the location of all
MLCTs created is given in Annexure ­ III. The data regarding the growth, survival and the
yield of fruits in different clones are being collected. These plantations were raised and
managed by the VSS and territorial staff with the technical guidance by the research staff.
However, most of the NWFP plantations are not being maintained and therefore the incidence
of fruiting is highly erratic. Therefore, if the objective of such trial plots is to ascertain the
site-specific clones based on the yield pattern, the plantations are to be maintained intensively
in an orchard mode with the usual inputs like watering, manuring, site cultivation and
protection for a minimum period of 5-7 years.
Analysis so far done is with regards to the qualitative characters only and it is too early for
the quantitative characters to be ascertained. The timber species are only 2 year old and will
not yield any conclusion at the moment.

3.2. Impact of Research related to Natural Forest Management Trials

It was desired by the Mission members that the research should provide results, though
preliminary, to demonstrate the impact of research undertaken on natural Forest Management
(NFM) on the improvement of forest productivity and VSS livelihoods. It was also suggested
to develop specific education programme for VSS on forest treatment practices and treatment
and harvesting of NTFPs. Apart from that it was stressed to develop simple technique for
NTFP quantitative assessment. Similarly, it was suggested to consider alternative species for
short rotation woody crops and long-rotation higher value trees in VSS plantations.
In this connection following actions have already been initiated:
   1. Basically, to assess the impact of the various treatment practices adopted by territorial
      staff on the productivity and site quality, the following types of NFM trials have been
      undertaken in the VSS areas.

               Simple methodology of finding growing stock and MAI in degraded natural
               forests treated with coppicing and singling has been evolved. The parameters
               of the study are growing stock and MAI estimation and dynamics of
               vegetation in treated area vis-à-vis untreated areas.
               Trial plots have been laid to determine the optimum thinning regime in the
               degraded natural forest. The objective of singling and thinning experiment is
               to determine the thinning regime (including intensity and interval) in order to
               produce maximum financial returns of which the site is capable. The
               parameters of the study are the number of stems to be retained in the degraded
               natural forest and the age at which the reduction is made to an accepted
               minimum.
               Trial plots have been laid to assess the effect of shoot reduction (singling of
               coppice shoots) at various intensities and intervals on the volume and growth
               of the coppice.
               Similarly the trial plots in bamboo forests have been laid with three objectives

                                               142
               of study:
                     i) Effect of the canopy intensity on the growth and yield of bamboo.
                     This experiment assumes greater significance because of the fact of large
                     areas have been planted under bamboo under-planting in the natural
                     forests of different canopy intensity. Sample plots are being laid in pure
                     bamboo areas, bamboo plantation areas, bamboos growing under the
                     teak plantations and the bamboos planted under different canopy
                     intensity of miscellaneous plantations.
                     ii) Effect of silvicultural operations taken up in natural bamboo forest
                        areas under TP-7 of the APFP.
                     iii) Effect of clear-felling of congested bamboo clump area to find
                         out the new clump recruitment and annual productivity.
       Trial plots have been laid out to assess the impact of SMC works on existing
       vegetation and on natural regeneration.
       Trial plots have been laid out to find the performance of in-situ grafting.
       Demonstration plots have been raised taking teak, Eucalyptus, Casuarina and
       Gmelina arborea to demonstrate the growth variations of the Clonal (rooted cuttings,
       bud grafts, serial cuttings, tissue culture seedlings) CSO/SSO seed and unknown
       source seed-origin planting stock. These plots are being laid not only in all the field
       research stations but also in the farmers fields also.

In total 143 NFM trial plots (Rajahmundry ­ 20; Warangal ­ 90; Tirupathi ­ 7 and Hyderabad
­ 26) have been laid out in different types of forests of Andhra Pradesh under the jurisdiction
of the respective State Silviculturists / Forest Geneticists and the data capturing forms have
been standardized.

The sample plot analysis of 3 representative sites of Adilabad and Warangal circles
(Warangal ­ mixed teak forests, represented by Yellareddipally VSS of Warangal North
Division; Warangal ­ pure teak forests, represented by Linethanda VSS of Warangal South
Division; and Adilabad pure teak forests, represented by Narsingapur VSS of Janaram
Division) was done. The data of 7 sample plots of 0.1 ha each in Linetanda VSS, 2 sample
plots of 0.1 ha each in Yellareddipalli and 1 sample plot of 0.25 ha in Narsinghapur were
analyzed and the important findings of this study is given as below:

      Growth parameters             Warangal          Warangal        Adilabad
                                    Mixed teak        Pure Teak      Pure Teak
                                      forests          Forests         Forests
Basal Area (m2 / ha)                    5.80             4.40            6.53
Volume (cum / ha)                       38.0             35.0           16.50
Crop Height (in m)                      8.57             8.51            3.88
Top height (in m)                       7.96             8.85            4.77
Number of trees / ha                   1100              830            1620
Average GBH (in cm) / tree             27.11            35.85           24.68
MAI (Vol / ha)                          1.90             1.75            0.82
MAI (Basal Area / ha)                   0.29             0.22            0.32
MAI crop height (in m)                  0.42             0.42            0.19
MAI GBH (in cm)                         1.35             1.79            1.23
NPV of Project on starting day      1098250.95        886961.87      1309365.31
IRR (%)                                45.66            48.64           30.72

                                             143
3.3. Trainings

Transfer of technology through interactive seminars and regular training programme has
remained as an important activity of the Research wing. The target groups of the training
programme and interactive seminar have been the departmental staff, senior officers, NGOs,
VSS members, Community Silviculturists etc.
The objective of the trainings, seminars and workshops is to expose the VSS and FD
personnel to various research trials propose under APCFM Project and to get their feed back
and opinion on the transfer of technology initiated under APFP and how to improve it further
and also to clarify their doubts and demonstrate on improved nursery technology, NTFP
including medicinal plants, clonal technology, natural forest management etc. Some of the
topics that are covered in the interactive seminars are:
12. Co-ordination and collaboration with territorial officers and staff by Research wing on
    laying and conducting Multilocational Clonal Trials and Natural Forest Management
    Trials.
13. Treatment of various types of degraded natural forests involving the VSS
14. Sustainable harvesting of Bamboo
15. Evaluation of performance and shortlisting of NTFP clones
16. Expansion of CMAs in central nurseries with shortlisted NTFP clones including oil
    yielding species such as Simarouba glauca, Pongamia, Neem, Mohwa etc.
17. Improved nursery technology
18. Issues pertaining to maintenance and expansion of central nurseries and vegetative
    propagation units
19. Allotment of NTFP grafts produced in the Research centres for planting in the VSS areas
20. Development of Technology transfer centes @ 1 each in all the 14 districts where
    APCFM Project is being implemented
21. Production and utilization of bio-fertilizers, compost and vermicompost
22. Conservation, cultivation, harvesting and value addition of Medicinal plants.

The trainings/ workshops were so far conducted by the Research Wing on transfer of
technology from the inception of the project is given in Annexure ­ IV

3.4. Technology Dissemination Centres

Under Para 4.4.2.5.1 of PIP (Vol.I) and Cost table-6 of APCFM Project, there is a provision
of establishing Technology Dissemination Centers (TDC) by upgrading one central nursery
per district (14 in all). The objective of these TDCs is to decentralize the improved
technology (an output of research wing) dissemination by making these new developments
more assessable to the staff and VSS members so that the improved technologies get more
popularized based on merit and subsequently get internalized. These centers will not only
continue to function as propagation unit with all modern propagation facilities but will
increase their mandate to include direct dialogue with VSS and field level functionaries of the
department. Training in these centres will focus on interactive seminars and field
demonstrations of new applied research findings and act as a platform for training the VSS
members, NGOs, farmers and department staff on various aspects of improved technology.


                                             144
Improved plant material should continue to be produced in these centres even after their
upgradation as TDCs and they will also perform the function of modern High-tech nurseries.
The Circle wise break up of districts where TDCs are established is as follows:

       Circle                District              Location              Assisted by

Visakhapatnam          Srikakulam             Tamrapalli             SS Rajahmundry
                       Vizianagaram           Phoolbag
                       Visakhapatnam          Kambalakonda
Rajahmundry            East Godavari          Diwancheruvu
Hyderabad              Mahabubnagar           Pillalamarri           SS Hyderabad
                       Nizamabad              Mosra
                       Medak                  Vallur
Anantapur              Chittoor               Pallamner              SS Tirupathi
Kurnool                Kadapa                 Kadapa
Guntur                 Nellore                Mungunur
Adilabad               Adilabad               Janaram                FG Warangal
Warangal               Karimnagar             LMD, Karimnagar
                       Warangal               Forest Complex,
                                              Warangal
Khammam                Khammam                Chatakonda,
                                              Kothagudem


The following infrastructure is established in the TDCs in a phased manner

   1. A lecture hall cum auditorium with necessary seating arrangements
   2. Audio-visual equipment such as Computer, LCD, OHP etc.
   3. Museum for demonstrating models, exhibits, posters, charts, flow diagram on
       improved nursery technology, clonal technology, NTFP, Medicinal plants, value
       addition etc.
   4. Dormitory for the stay of the trainees
   5. Dining hall
   6. Permanent fencing
   7. Network of internal roads
   8. Permanent and assured water supply
   9. Stand by electricity generator
   10. Low Cost Mist chambers
   11. Polypropagators
   12. Shade house
   13. Permanent sand beds
   14. Root trainer nursery of at least 1 lakh capacity
   15. Expansion/ establishment of CMAs with high yielding clones of Timber, Pulpwood
       and NTFP species including oil yielding trees and Medicinal plants in a phased
       manner, year after year.
   16. Demonstration plots with high yielding clones
   17. Kitchen herbal garden and Demonstration plots on Medicinal plants cultivation.
   18. Demonstration unit on oil extraction from Pongamia & Azadirachta indica etc.
   19. Organic Compost unit

                                             145
   20. Vermi-compost unit


4. PRODUCTION & SUPPLY OF IMPROVED NTFP GRAFTS AND CLONAL
   PLANTING STOCK

Originally CMAs of different species were created in various research centres so that the
transfer of the improved clones reach the Central Nurseries located in various parts of the
State and the territorial staff starts producing the improved planting stock. Therefore,
production has become a part of regular activity in all the Field Research Centers.Initially,
only the grafts of NTFP species, such as Phyllanthus emblica, Tamarindus indica, Pongamia
pinnate, Syzygium cuminii, Feronia elephantum, Simarouba glauca, Artocarpus
heterophyllus, Annona squamosa etc., were produced Necessary precautiosn were being
taken to ensure that the scion material of only best performing and short-listed clones are
used for grafting and all the 4 Research centres are certifying the quality and origin of the
grafts. Along with the NTFP grafts, the production of Eucalyptus clonal planting stock was
taken up. After the decision for introduction of LRHT species to the VSS plantation
programme, the production of the total requirement of planting stock of LRHT species was
taken up by the research wing.

5. MID-TERM REVISION OF RESEARCH PLAN (Adaptive Research Plan)

Having reached half-way through the project, a critical analysis of the initiatives taken from
the research wing was made and it was examined as to whether the achievements in the
research front are helping the in the realization of the overall project objectives of livelihood
enhancement and poverty reduction. During the whole period of the project, research wing
tried to review the technical requirements of the field operations and accordingly took
adaptive research programmes. It was strongly felt that the research should make its useful
contribution towards the establishment of economic assets through creation of high-yielding
plantations by VSS members. An important ingredient of the business planning is the
sustainable availability of the resources at the disposal of the VSS. Accordingly, following
are the areas where renewed efforts were given in the second half of the project period:

       As a part of the expansion of the strategy to develop short-term revenue in order to
       ensure sustainability of the VSS beyond the project, it was thought pertinent to create
       large extent of high-yielding plantation of short rotation woody crops (SRWP).
       Accordingly, Eucalyptus and Casuarina plantations were established to a large extent.
       While doing so, the focus was given by the research wing on introduction of some
       alternative SRWP species apart from Eucalyptus and Casuarina. An attempt was
       made to introduce the SRWP species such as Acacia hybrid, Ailanthus excelsa,
       Anthocephalus cadamba, Melia dubia etc. Research also reoriented its direction in
       deploying more productive clones of the practiced species and bringing in new SRWP
       species to the clonal forestry programme. Accordingly, clonal plantations of Gmelina
       arborea was also planted in many of the VSS areas. We are operationalizing the
       genetic gain noticed in the tree improvement trials into the field plantation programme
       to a limited extent, which can be further expanded.

       It has been felt worthwhile to introduce some of the long rotation high-value timber
       (LRHT) species in the VSS plantation which not only can ensure a handsome return
       in the future years like the teak plantations yielding the returns at present but also can
       as ex-situ conservation stands. Accordingly, 687 ha and 308 ha was planted with

                                              146
      LRHT species during 2006-07 and 2007-08 respectively. The species raised were
      comprising of Tectona grandis, Dalbergia latifolia, Pterocarpus marsupium,
      P.santalinus, Adina cordifolia, Mitragyna parviflora, Hardwickia binnata,
      Radermachera xylocarpa, Schrebera swietenoides, Oogeinia dalbergioides, Albizia
      odoratissima, Bridelia retusa etc. Similarly, keeping in view the fast dwindling
      population of Sterculia urens and Cochlospermum religiosum (the two species which
      continue to immensely contribute to the tribal economy) from the wild, a programme
      for creation of the plantation of 100 ha of these two species was initiated. All these
      plantations were created in VSS areas by territorial and staff. However, the total
      planting stock for the above planting was supplied by R&D wing.

      The third critical step which the R&D initiated was the creation of more of the
      demonstrative plantations of SRWP species with the integration of appropriate clones
      and the optimum cultural practices to showcase the potential of high short-term
      return. The need to raise such model demonstration plantations by the R&D arose
      from the observation that the high-value clones are planted without much attention to
      the cultural needs of such clones resulting in short-fall of the desired output at the
      time of the harvest. Accordingly, more SRWP demonstration plots were raised in the
      various Field Research Stations. The growth of Melia dubia, Ailanthus excelsa,
      Radermachera xylocarpa, Cedrella toona, Dolichandrone crispa in these plots have
      been recorded very encouraging.

      As a part of long-term strategy to meet the quality-seed requirement of the tree
      farming programme in the State which would be obviously to a greater scale in future
      years, it was felt strongly to develop the Clonal Seed Orchard (CSO) for various
      hardwood commercially important timber species. It was intended that these seed
      orchards would produce seeds that could be both abundant and of high genetic value.
      This strategy warranted the standardization of cloning technology of various timber
      species. The species were selected, the cloning technique was standardized and
      already the CSO of Dalbergia latifolia, Gmelina arborea and Pterocarpus marsupium
      were established. There is a plan to expand to a very large extent with the CAMP
      funding.

      Research wing carried forward the focus on the bio-pesticide ­ both botanical and
      microbial. The locally produced bio-pesticide from plant-parts like Cleistanthus
      collinus, Vitex negundo, Carica papaya, Calotropis procera etc are being refined with
      the efficacy study and wide-range use. Should there be a need, the R&D can supply
      this locally made bio-pesticide to all the nurseries and plantations of the State.
      BIOTRIM is more focused on the production of microbial bio-pesticide


6. STUDIES AS PER THE LAST AID MEMOIRES

6.1 Assessment of yield of bamboo plantation

   It was felt necessary to carry out the field assessment of bamboo plantations raised under
   semi-mechanical method to ascertain the survival and yield potential. In this connection,
   instructions were issued to State Silviculturists, Rajahmundry and Forest Geneticist,
   Warangal to take 20% sampling in a 3-4 year old plantations (at least one in each district
   where such plantations had been raised) and parameters like survival percentage, clump

                                            147
   diameter, number of culms present in the clump with the number of matured culms and
   number of culms of different ages, average height of the culms, average basal girth of the
   culm etc. can be ascertained.

       SS Rajahmundry collected the data in 2003 bamboo plantation (Dendrocalamus
       strictus) in Annapureddipalli VSS of Satupalli Range. The data recorded in the
       sample plot has yielded the following results:

       Survival %                                                             97.5%
       Clump Diameter                                                         0.76 m
       No. of matured culms present in the clump                              4.28 / clump
       No. of 2nd year culms                                                  4.97 / clump
       No. of 1st year culms                                                  7.86 / clump
       Average height of the culm                                             8.72 m
       Average basal girth of the culm                                        0.12 cm

6.2 Assessment of yield of coppiced teak forest

A large number of degraded pure and mixed teak plantations were treated with "stool
coppicing followed by singling" treatment and such plantations had come to thinning
promising a good financial return to the VSS. Earlier, Research wing took up an impact
analysis study of such treatment practice in one VSS of Adilabad Circle and 2 VSSs in
Warangal Circle and the report was submitted to MTR mission during May 2006. Because of
the varied nature of the stands in terms of stocking and crown density there is a need to apply
an objective site-specific approach. Basal area per hectare and the requisite number of trees to
achieve this for a given age class and site quality is a guide. In the above context, the
Research wing developed a methodology to ascertain the allowable cut from such plantations
and this was demonstrated to Mr Paul Rayon in Jagtial Range of Karimnagar Division. After
the approval of this methodology, it was suggested in the last Aide Memoire to revisit
baseline plots within at least 2 more Divisions with reasonable teak forests to determine
forest growth and the impact of stand improvements. Accordingly, Forest Geneticist,
Warangal was instructed to collaborate with DFO, Karimnagar (West) and carry out the
exercise.

6.3 Study on Incidence of Gall Insect Pests in Eucalyptus plantations

Large extent of Eucalyptus clonal plantations was affected by gall infestation caused by a
Lepidopteran wasp (Leptocybe invasa) leading to deformation of plant, inducing epicormic
branches and cessation of apical growth. Different clones were exhibiting different degrees of
susceptibility. The symptoms of this insect pest infestation were more pronounced during
2007 summer. However, during the last rainy season, the infestation was noticed to be at low
ebb and fresh growth was noticed. Another observation was that this infestation was severe in
the drier areas like Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa, Rangareddy, Warangal, Mahboobnagar etc and
higher rainfall sites like East Godavari was less affected. Keeping in view the fact the
possible role of moisture playing a role in the susceptibility of the clonal plantations, it was to
be seen over the next few months if the attack have been induced by moisture stress on
younger trees or the decline in the incidence is due to a life cycle phenomenon of the insect
pest. Therefore it was felt appropriate to take permanent sample plots in different agro-
climatic zones and monitor the infestation. Accordingly, all State Silviculturists and Forest
Geneticists were instructed to visit the same plantations once again and assess the plantations
with respect to the incidence of this insect pest.

                                               148
However, as per the preliminary information provided by State Silviculturists and Forest
Geneticist, the plants which suffered from gall wasp infestation and exhibited varying
degrees of loss of vigour and retarded rate of growth had been recovered although the
symptoms had not been fully disappeared. The observation suggests that the faster rate of
growth of Eucalyptus making the tissue harder for the further life cycle of the insect difficult.
Secondly, some of the clones like APSST-83 and APSST-63 did not recover from the
damage. However, the monitoring has to be continued and loss of potential yield will be
ascertained in due course of time.

7. PROGRESS OF EXPENDITURE DURING 2009-10
The Approved Work Plan for 2009-10 was submitted for an amount of Rs. 350.440 lakh.
However, an amount of Rs. 147.971 lakh was released and an amount of Rs. 62.401 lakh has
been spent up to February, 2010.




                                              149
Annex 4
                          INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT


Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is a management intervention which combines one or
more appropriate pest management tactics into a package that minimizes costs and
environmental impacts, whilst maximizing yields and net benefits. In this, all or most of pest
control techniques are blended in a harmonious manner so that pest population is suppressed
to an appreciably low level. Its two bedrock foundations are prevention and monitoring, i.e.
strive to avoid pest pest problems at the outset, but keep a watch on the crop in case
something goes wrong. As a practical crop protection solution, IPM is far from universal ­ it
is often difficult to produce a viable IPM package for a crop particularly plantation on a large
area. Problems which arise to curtail the full implementation of IPM include pest dynamics,
host-plant and climate interactions, the practicalities of crop production, and very often, the
socio-economic conditions prevalent in the region of the plantation.


1. COMPONENTS OF IPM
1.1. PREVENTIVE PEST MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The IPM of forest insects must be considered to be a preventive technique first and foremost.
For ecological, economic, technological and social reasons, it is frequently impossible to
control a pest outbreak or eradicate a damaging species even locally once the damage has
begun, and so it is vital to grow trees, whether at a local agroforestry level or in an industrial
plantations, in ways that reduce the probability of serious pest incidence. Following vital
factors are taken into consideration while developing the Preventive Pest Management
System (PPMS):
1.1.1. Detail Knowledge of Tree-Insect Pest Interaction: The first stage in this preventive
strategy involves developing a sound knowledge of why insect pest outbreaks occur. Armed
with this knowledge, foresters can grow trees using methods which avoid such occurrences.
Of course, it may be that a tactic which is well known to increase the likelihood of pest
problems, such as intense monoculture, is essential to sound silvicultural practice, and hence
cannot be avoided.
1.1.2. Tree species Resistance and Site Matching: Out of all the predisposing or avoidable
problems in the PPMS, two related items stand out as fundamental to promoting and
preserving tree health and reducing pest or disease attack. These are: a) tree species and site-
matching (essentially environmental); and b) the use of resistant and non-susceptible tree
species or genotypes. In other words, even if a tree which s genetically resistant to an insect
or a fungus is chosen, it may still be rendered prone to attacks by planting it in a place where
the soils and climate are unsuitable. On the other hand, if susceptible tree species or genotype
has to be used for sound economic reasons, then planting it in a habitat where its health and
vigor will be optimal may enable resulting pest problems to be tolerated. The type of pests
also has an influence here. Sap-feeders and stem, shoot, or bark borers seem to be particularly
influenced by tree stress or lack of vigor in the host, whereas defoliators are less predictable.
Defoliators may be deterred, however, if a tree genotype is basically disliked or rejected by a
potential pest, irrespective of where it is planted.
1.1.3. Pest Reservoirs: Trees of the same species within the same stands can also act as pest
reservoirs, especially when outbreaks are, initially at least, localized to small pockets of

                                               150
damage or death. These small pockets provide new colonists which spread into the
surrounding patches, causing more widespread and serious damage. One example of this is
the spread of Tingis besonii in large Gmelina arborea plantations.
1.1.4. Handling Damage: There are various stages in the growth of a forest crop when
hands-on intervention is called for. This can start in the nursery, continue into young
plantations, and still be prevalent as far as harvest and beyond. For example, it is very easy to
damage the rootsof nursery stock by rapid and rough transplanting. Root curling is a common
problem which, whilst not serious enough at the outset to prevent vigorous young trees
establishing in a plantation, can lead to early root decline, secondary pest attack, and tree
death, as in the case of Acacia mangium plantations. Pruning to shape the canopy, coppicing
to activate the new shoots, singling and other tending operations are called for in a young
plantations or forest, and untrained or careless action can provide ideal sites for the ingress of
insects such as termites or other fungal pathogens. Similarly, in a later stage of the plantation,
thinning is carried out to boost the growth of vigorous tree. But it is important not to leave
thinned timber lying within stands since it may help pest breeding and proliferating in the
debris. Examples include the massive increase in bark beetles which may kill some of the
remaining healthy trees. Forest hygiene is, therefore, another form of preventive pest control.

1.2. INERVENTIONIST MANAGEMENT TACTICS
Prevention is thus much better than cure, but is unfortunately not entirely dependable. For
example, defoliators in particular are less influenced by attempts to grow the healthiest trees
(e.g. Ailanthus excelsa), and various ,,risky strategies such as growing monocultures of
exotic tree species on poor soils may be unavoidable logistically and economically.
Appropriate management tactics differ for different types of insect pest, and actual ,,hands-
on control of insects is often not a viable option. However, recourse may be made to more
interventionist tactics, if available. These may either be in the form of longer-term,
semipermanent control using natural enemies of pests in biological control, or the short, sharp
tactic of employing various types of pesticides, biological or chemical, in response to an
acute outbreak.
1.2.1. Inspection and Quarantine: Some of the new insect pests move from one region of
the world to another the along with the movement of planting materials, timbers, wood
products etc. For example, the blue chalsid gum or gall-inducing wasp (Leptocybe invasa)
moved from Australia to Israel to India and affected large scale Eucalyptus plantations in
especially south India. Hence a vital part of IPM for insect pests these days is a routine but
efficient system of inspection at docks and harbors to prevent such imports, to quarantine
infested material.
1.2.2. Monitoring and Evaluation: The most fundamental feature of IPM compared with
conventional pest management tactics is the reliance on some form of monitoring procedure
to tell the forester whether or not he or she can expect to have a pest problem in the future.
Hence the luxury of IPM is the decision to take no action, safe in the knowledge that nothing
economically serious is going to happen. It is crucial to note that no monitoring system can
be regarded as reliable without impact assessment, risk or hazard ratings, and a knowledge of
threshold densities (numbers of the lifestage counted above which significant pest damage
can be expected).
Understanding of the insect pests of the various trees and the means to monitor them
throughout the growing season of the plant in the nursery as well as in the plantation form the
basic prerequisites in the development of integrated pest management strategies. It is

                                               151
necessary that the insects collected should be verified and identified by an entomologist for
their opinion whenever possible. Changing pest status due to climatic and various other
factors can be identified through periodical pest detection surveys. Based on such survey, the
pest spectrum of nursery seedlings and plantation crops should be identified and suppressive
measures taken against them.
Precise estimation of extent of injury or damage to the seedlings in the nursery or plants in
the plantations is essential to take decision for the initiation of control operations. A clear
understanding of the environmental factors which influence or modify the pest build up or
suppression is necessary for effective management of various pest at low cost. High build up
of some pests have been mainly influenced by rainfall. Soon after the rain, one round of safe
pesticide spray can minimize the incidence of such defoliators.
1.2.3..Cultural and Mechanical Methods: Cultural method is the reduction of the insect
population by utilization of cultivation practices, which make the environment unfavourable
of pests. It involves avoidance of factors that favour multiplication of insect pests. Careful
choice of location for establishment of nursery may help reduce insect incidence and damage.
Proper soil preparation before establishment of nursery beds will expose stages of pests
inhabiting inside the soil, which will be eaten away by birds or can be hand-picked and
destroyed. Soil work can also mechanically damage the stages of insects and eliminate weed
plants which are alternate host to insect pests. Arranging nursery beds with alternate species
may minimize and slowdown infestation by injurious insects. Removal and burning of waste
residues and weed plants will eliminate insect stages hibernating or sheltering in plant debris.
Changes (advancing or delaying) in sowing or planting time can also be employed to avoid
an expected incidence of a pest during susceptible season.
Significant control by hand collection and destruction of caterpillars, grubs and adult beetles
or bugs will help to reduce defoliation on young seedlings. Similarly, sweep net collection
and destruction of adult stages can suppress the pest population significantly. Traps or nets
laid around seed beds can trap or deter insects which damage seedlings. However, it should
be borne in mind that adoption of these types of control practices should be based on
availability of labour and the cost involved.
1.2.4. Biological Control: In theory, the use of natural enemies of forest insect pests to
regulate their numbers below a level where damage is economically important is a very
useful strategy. Predators such as birds, small mammals and especially other insects seem to
consume large numbers of lepidopteran larvae or aphids, whilst more host species-
specificparasites (parasitoids) in the insect orders Hymenoptera and Diptera can reduce the
densities of pest considerably. The problem, however is that in many cases this reduction in
percentage mortality is insufficient either to prevent significant damage or to reduce existing
outbreaks sufficiently. In other words, the reasons behind the outbreaks where clearly the pest
is being very successful for one reason or another tend to outweigh the ability of the enemies
to make serious inroads into the pest population until most of the pests food, such as foliage,
has disappeared. By then, of course, it is too late for pest management to prevent significant
losses. In the case of forestry, particularly the natural forests or the large scale plantations,
unlike many situations in agriculture and horticulture, there are relatively few management
success stories for biological control using predators or parasitoids of insect pests. Secondly,
mass production and release of parasites and predators may not be economical in a temporary
environment like nursery. Instead, these natural enemies may be conserved and favourable
environment can be created to enhance their population for effecting natural suppression of
these pests.

                                              152
Biological control in pest management has a better track record when considering the
potential of insect pathogens. Microbial agents like the nucleopolyhedro-virus (NPV),
bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis and fungus Beauveria basiana hold promise for effective
suppression of certain groups of forest pests, the defoliators in particular and possibly some
of the shoot borers and stem-feeders. The NPV of teak defoliator moth, Hyblaea purea, in
southern India is the best example so far of pathogens in the control of tropical forest pests.
NPVs are usually extremely species-specific, have enormous multiplication rates, and can
persist in a stable forest environment for long periods of time. The remaining problems to
their commercial adoption center around their production prior to application, the efficient
timing and application of pathogens, and the ability to respond rapidly to new and
geographically isolated pest outbreaks. Commercial formulation of microbial agents is
available in the market for ready use in the field.
1.2.5. Chemical Control: Chemical control is always the effective and reliable method of
management at a reasonable cost in a short time besides preventing extensive damage to the
seedlings or plantation crops. Pesticides are used both as a preventive (prophylactic) and as a
curative measure to minimize insect pest damage. Because of their rapid action, pesticides are
always used wherever there is a large scale outbreak of insect pests. Many synthetic organic
insecticides are available in the market. Few of them are organochlorine compounds (contact
insecticide, which can persist in the environment for a long time without degeneration and
therefore most of them like DDT, BHC, lindane, dicofol, endosulphan etc. are banned and not
in use); Organophosphorous compounds having contact and systemic activity, having very
short residual action and hence mostly used (e.g. chloropyriphos, dichlorovs, dimethoate,
malathion, methyl parathion, methyl demeton, monocrotophos, phosphamidon, phosalone,
phorate, quinalphos etc.); Carbamates, which breakdown readily and leave no harmful
residue and hence safe (e.g. carbaryl, carbofuran); and Synthetic Pyrethroids, which are
synthetic analogues of pyrethrum and has got a quick knock-down effect on insects and are
effective at very low doses (e.g. allethrin, cypermethrin, permithrin, fenvalerate).
Effective control can be achieved with least destruction to ecosystem if the pesticide
application can coincide with the weak or vulnerable stage of the insect. Though a number of
insecticides are effective against a pest, preferential choice should fall on comparatively safe
insecticides like dimethoate, methyl demeton, monocrotophos, chloropyriphos and
dichlorovos. Selective and improved method of application should be practiced for efficient
pest management in nurseries or plantations. Soil application of chloropyriphos is highly
effective for suppressing subterranean pests like termites and white grubs. Spray application
of dimethoate or methyl demeton are effective against sucking pests while monocrotophos or
methyl parathion or carbaryl can control defoliators. Dichlorvos can be used to control borers
and gall insects.
Pheromones are used extensively for monitoring insect pest populations, but they also have
limited success in a technique known as mating disruption and confusion. In this technique,
synthetic analogs of species-specific sex attractant pheromones are uniformly released over
large areas of forest or plantation from various types of dispenser. Male moths attempting to
locate the point-source attractiveness of female lose the ability to find the mates, resulting n
far fewer eggs laid and hence significantly reduced pest populations.
Because of health and environmental hazards due to synthetic pesticides (insecticide and
pheromones), the naturally occurring chemicals from plants are used to manage insect pests.
The vast and diverse chemical profiles of some plants have properties of poisoning or
repelling the pest. These natuarally occurring chemicals are used as ecofriendly and

                                              153
economic pest control agents. The insect antifeedants are the chemicals that inhibit the pests
from feeding. Some of the commonly available plants with active principles, which are
traditionally used in pest control are Azadirachta indica, Annona squamosa, Cleistanthus
collinus, Nicotiana tabacum, Adhatoda vasica, Vitex negundo, Acorus calamus, Pongamia
pinnata, Ocimum sanctum etc. These types of extracts are not harmful to beneficial insects
like parasites, predators and pollinators. Under conditions of proper coverage, plant extracts
are effective in limiting feeding damage by insects on plants. Extractions and applications of
plant-based products are cost-effective. Therefore, they are best suited into IPM programme.
However, disadvantages also limit the use of plant extracts in insect control in the field.
Sucking pests and borers cannot be controlled by plant extracts. In addition to this the short
shelf life of the plant extract discourages the use.


2. OPTIONS IN INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
Traditional pest management tends to rely on a low number of options for reducing the
damage caused by a particular organism. Choices are driven by the economic threshold that
can be tolerated and by how quickly the pest population must be reduced below the economic
threshold. In some cases, there is little choice but to use direct intervention methods based on
chemical pesticides and this is an option within an IPM strategy. However, the key advantage
of IPM is the assessment of a range of options and the choice of combination of these to
achieve pest reduction. IPM, therefore requires a disciplined approach to decision making,
taking account of the individual and combined effects of a range of options. Below figure
illustrates a range of the steps required to develop IPM in forestry and distinguishes two
complementary approaches to management, namely prevention and cure.


IPM as an approach to sustainable forest pest management has many attractions. In particular,
it is a knowledge based system that involves development of deep understanding of
underlying processes. Emphasis has been laid on prevention of pest outbreaks so that
planning for pest management is included from the outset of any forest operations from
nursery to planting to harvesting. Although success can be achieved at any stage of the crop,
the options available tend to diminish as the crop matures. For example, choice of less
susceptible tree species or provenances or clones is only n option that can be controlled fully
during the establishment phase of a crop. Thereafter, adjustment to the balance of species,
ages, sizes, and spacing of trees are viable options, provided that the process employed to
adjust the variables are understood. Of course, it may not be possible to put the choices into
practice in all cases, either for economic or for logistic reasons and, therefore, a high element
of flexibility is needed to implement successful IPM.
The increasing trend to reduce the use of chemical pesticides provides further impetus to
strengthen knowledge-based management systems, although no options to be ruled out until
all variables have been considered and their consequences are assessed. IPM is, therefore, not
a quick-fix solution to pest management, but can provide sustainable long-term pest
prevention or suppression with only limited recourse to repeated intervention, particularly
with chemical pesticides.
Below figure illustrates a range of the steps required to develop IPM in forestry and
distinguishes two complementary approaches to management, namely prevention and cure.


                                              154
                                                  IPM in forestry




            Prevention                          Monitoring                   Cure



       Tree species           Identify likely                Routine pest
          choice                  pests                       monitoring
                                                                                     No action



                                                               Impact
     Site selection                                                                  Sanitation
                                                             assessment

       Silvicultural
                                                                                     Biological
          system                                              Economic
                                                                                      control
                                                              threshold
        Nursery
      management                                                                     Chemical
                                 Maintain tree                 Decision               control
        Stand
                                    vigor                      making
      management

       - Schematic representation of the key components of IPM in forestry Nursery &
                                      Plantation -


Although the actions involved in achieving these ends may be similar, the ultimate aim will
be to develop prevention so that long-term, sustainable population management can be
achieved. In reality, there is usually a balance between prevention and cure, both of which
depend on the quality of the monitoring and decision making components of the IPM
systems. Emphasis on maintaining tree vigor as a baseline component of an IPM system goes
a long way towards achieving both prevention and cure.


3. IPM TOOLBOX FOR NURSERY AND PLANTATION INSECT PEST
An IPM ,,toolbox can be imagined which contains all the elements of pest management
described above. These include preventive systems such as site choice and species matching,
as well as interventionist tactics such as chemical and biological control. Underpinning these
tactics is a sound and reliable monitoring system with which management decisions can be
made. Clearly, not all specific situations in forest nursery and plantations will require each of
these tactics, and so the toolbox concept can be applied whereby the various components
appropriate to a particular problem and its solution can be used, leaving the rest for a
different scenario.


                                                 155
3.1. IPM TOOLBOX FOR NURSERY INSECT PEST

No.     PEST LEVEL            ACTIVITY                 EXPECTED OUTCOME
I                     Cultural and Mechanical Methods
1   NIL               Carefully select location Recurring pest attack can be
                      for     establishment      of avoided.
                      nursery.
2    NIL / LOW        Carry out proper weeding, Expose          stages     of    pests
                      clearing and soil work.       inhabiting inside the soil which
                                                    will be eaten away by birds or
                                                    can be collected and destroyed.
                                                    Mechanically damage stages of
                                                    insects, eliminate weed plants
                                                    which are alternate hosts to
                                                    insect pests.
3    NIL / LOW        Remove and burn waste Eliminate               insect      stages
                      residues and weed plants      hibernating or sheltering in plant
                                                    debris or waste.
4    NIL / LOW        Arrange proper irrigation Suppress disease and pest
                      and drainage facilities       incidence
5    NIL / LOW        Use best seed lot for Superior seed sources will give
                      sowing.                       healthy and vigorous growing
                                                    plants.
6    NIL / LOW        Provide seed treatment if Seed treatment can avoid
                      necessary.                    damage by termite and other
                                                    subterranean pests.
7    NIL / LOW        Advance or delay sowing This will avoid an expected
                      or planting time              incidence of pest during a
                                                    susceptible season.
8    NIL / LOW        Avoid               arranging Discontinuous beds of same
                      continuous beds of same species will retard spread of
                      species. Alternate beds of insect pests particularly sap-
                      different species may be sucking paste like scale insects.
                      arranged.
9    LOW              Hand       collection     and Reduce injury and damage on
                      destruction of caterpillars, young seedlings.
                      grubs and adult beetles or
                      bugs.
II                        Monitoring and Evaluation
1    NIL / LOW        Undertake regular (once in Incidence of pest species in
                      two weeks) pest detection nursery seedlings             can be
                      surveys throughout the identified well in advance and
                      seedling growing season       suppressive measures can be
                                                    taken.
2    NIL / LOW        Keep          track        of Application of one round of safe
                      environmental factors like pesticide spray soon after the
                      rainfall in the area which rain can minimize incidence of
                      generally results in high pests like defoliators.
                      build up of some pests

                                   156
3     LOW/MEDIUM/HIGH Precisely estimate the             This will help in taking decision
                      extent of injury or damage         for the initiation of appropriate
                      to the seedlings due to pest       control operations
                      attack and the population
                      level.
4     LOW/MEDIUM/HIGH Insects collected should be        Exact determination of the pest
                      verified and identified by         species will help in devising
                      an entomologist.                   proper management practices.
5     LOW / MEDIUM    Sweep net collection and           Significant suppression of pest
                      destruction of adult stages        population
6     NIL / HIGH      Installation of light traps /      Trap or detect insects which
                      traps of nets                      damage seedlings.

III                                  Biological Control
1     LOW / MEDIUM          Locate, identify and assess Available natural enemies can
                            the     natural     enemies be conserved and favorable
                            operating in the field        environment can be created by
                                                          delaying pesticide application to
                                                          enhance their population for
                                                          effecting natural suppression of
                                                          these pests.
2     LOW / MEDIUM          Use             commercial Favorable environments will be
                            formulation of microbial resulted for natural enemies like
                            agents available in the parasites and predators to
                            market for management of multiply.
                            pests.
IV                                    Chemical Control
1     LOW / MEDIUM          Prepare crude aqueous Pest population at low or
                            extracts of traditionally medium level infestation will be
                            used plants in pest repelled or killed. In the absence
                            controls like Azadirachta, of         chemical      pesticides,
                            Vitex, Cleistanthus etc. favorable environment will be
                            and apply against insect resulted for natural enemies like
                            pests if at low or medium parasitoids and predators to
                            level     of     infestation. multiply
                            Commercial formulations
                            of such products can also
                            be applied
2     HIGH                  Coincide application of Effective pest control with least
                            chemical pesticide with destruction to ecosystem
                            the weak or vulnerable
                            stage of the insect
3     HIGH                  Rationalize the choice of Hazards of insecticide residue,
                            pesticide. Select safe, non- development of insecticidal
                            persistent pesticides and resistance in insects and
                            practice         need-based outbreak of other secondary
                            application                   pests can be avoided.
4     HIGH                  Selective and improved Efficient pest management.
                            method of application


                                         157
3.2. IPM `TOOLBOX' FOR MANAGING INSECT PESTS IN PLANTATION CROPS

Host of insects have been reported damaging several species deployed in plantation
programme. Easy way a forester finds is recommendation of some broad-based insecticide
without really going into the details of the type of damage and what prevention and cure
methods could have kept the insect population at bay. Insects selecting the plantation crops
for food, shelter and egg-laying are often classified according to the sites that are damaged
during the life cycle. The majority of the cases relate to the immature, larval, or nymphal
stages of the particular pests. In fact this is determined by the processes employed by the
adult pests to select suitable egg-laying sites that will lead to the highest likelihood of
successful survival of their progeny. Consequently, the tactics employed to manage pests will
be tailored to the types of feeding strategy by a given pest species.
The wide gamut of insects damaging the plantation crops can be broadly classified into four
categories based on insect feeding strategy: 1) Bark Feeders & Wood Borers, 2)
Defoliators, 3) Sap Feeders, and 4) Root Feeders. The following IPM ,,toolbox has been
recommended giving some of the tactics to be employed to either prevent (a primary IPM
strategy) or cure the problems.


 Sl.     Damage Details                         Management Tactics
No.                                    Prevention                  Cure
1      BARK FEEDERS & BORERS
       This group of pests is - Match tree species to site.   - Injection of systemic
       dominated by beetles. - Avoid soil aridity and         insecticide foe high-value
       In the majority of waterlogging.                       trees either directly in the
       cases, the life cycle - Avoid overmaturity.            entry holes or through the
       includes a period of - Avoid root damage in            active roots.
       feeding       in    the nursery                        - Remove infested materials
       cambial layer of the - Avoid stacking of pruned        from     site    before     re-
       inner bark which may or thinned materials near         emergence of pest.
       occupy some or all of stands                           - Change tree species
       the larval feeding - Avoid pruning, coppicing          mix/age structure to favour
       phase of the pest. or thinning damage.                 less susceptible species / age
       Wood borer includes
       an additional period
       during which the pest
       feeds in the sapwood.
       Some, such as wood
       wasps,          oviposit
       directly      in    the
       sapwood using a long
       ovipositor capable of
       boring into the wood.
       Example: Bark-eating
       caterpillar in Gmelina
       arborea.
II     DEFOLIATORS
       Defoliators damage - Avoid preferred tree              - Plant less susceptible
       trees as a result of mixture                           species / provenance /


                                             158
      feeding on the leaves.                               clones
      Severity varies with                                 - Use the planting stock of
      the type of tree being                               Seedling Seed Orchard or
      attacked and on the                                  Clonal Seed Orchard Seeds.
      time of the year,                                    - Change tree species
      relative to the growth                               mix/age structure to favour
      cycle of the tree,                                   less susceptible species/age
      when      the    attack                              -      Apply        microbial
      occurs.                                              insecticides
      Example: Teak &                                      - Using mating disruption to
      Ailanthus defoliator                                 reduce breeding success
III   SAP FEEDERS OR SAP SUCKERS
      Sap Feeedrs ­ both - Avoid non-vigorous trees        - Plant less susceptible
      the     adults      and - Avoid highly susceptible   species / provenance /
      immature (nymphs) provenances or clones              clones
      stages feed on sap by                                - Use systemic insecticides
      inserting          their                             through active roots.
      specialized sucking                                  - Spray the shaded areas of
      mouthparts (stylets)                                 the trees like holes, knots,
      into the phloem or                                   cankers, bark furrows where
      sometimes xylem of                                   the insects congregate in
      buds, leaves or in                                   day time to avoid the direst
      some cases bark.                                     sun. This reduces the
      Most      cases     tree                             population to large extent.
      survives but there
      may be secondary
      effects in making the
      tree vulnerable to
      attack by other pests
      and in the production
      of honeydew which is
      colonized by fungi
      such as sooty moulds.
      This severely restricts
      the tree growth by
      reducing             the
      photosynthetic area
      of the growing buds,
      leaves      and      the
      branchlets.
      Example:          Scale
      insects, plant bugs
      and Tingis beesonii in
      Gmelina

IV    ROOT FEEDERS
      Root Feeders remain      - Reduce availability of    - Plant less susceptible
      underground. Impacts     breeding resources for      species / provenance /
      in plantations can be    weevils.                    clones.
      serious, but the cause   - Encourage alternative     - Reduce breeding resource

                                           159
      can be overlooked        non-crop food sources          for the pests by using
      because of the cryptic   -      Incorporation      of   pheromones.
      nature of the niche      insecticide granules in        -      Intervention      using
      occupied by the pests.   planting hole if termite       chemicals and microbial
      This pest is more        losses are high                pesticides in extreme cases.
      prevalent in nursery     - Drenching the seedling       - For the first 2 years of the
      seedlings.               with chloropyriphos before     plantation crop drench the
      Example: Root borers     planting in the areas known    soil with insecticide
      in Tectona grandis,      for termite infestation        - Judiciously use the
      Gmelina arborea                                         fungicide since all the root
                                                              feeders insect damage is
                                                              followed        by      fungal
                                                              infection.


CONCLUSION

The principles of integrated pest management (IPM) require a comprehensive
knowledge of the reasons for pest outbreaks and, further, an understanding of which
processes can be manipulated to reduce the severity of any outbreaks. While the concept
of IPM is intuitively sound, the practical implementation of those concepts to reach a
successful conclusion is not always so easily achieved. Of course, there are some
successful instances in which forest nurseries are subjected to IPM regime since it is
relatively easier to implement the IPM guidelines in a restricted area like nursery. In
fact, case studies to illustrate IPM successes in forestry are relatively very few if strict
definition of `integrated' is adopted, such that there is a requirement for a multifaceted
approach across a range of disciplines. In reality, although there are multiple variables
to contend with, management will tend to rely on one or two key elements to achieve
pest reduction.




                                             160
