FILE COPY
Report No. 888a-MLI
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
Mali
November 25, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
M
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eauivalents
Currency Unit     =     Mali Franc (MF)
US$1.00                  M MF 450 !î
MF 1 million      =      US$2,222
Fiscal Year:
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures: Metric System
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =    2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)         =    2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCEOM  -  Bureau Central pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer
CMTR   -  Compagnie Malienne des Transports Routiers
DNPS   -  Direction Nationale du Plan et de la Statistique
DNTP   -  Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
DPW    -  Directorate of Public Works
HEP    -  Highway Equipment Pool
MTPW   -  Ministry of Transport and Public Works
ONT    -  Office Nationale du Transport (National Transport Office)
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
vpd    -  vehicles per day
1/ This rate has been used throughout this report. Actually the
Malian Franc is floating pegged to the French Franc.



MALI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMARY ..............................................  i - iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................   1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................................    2
A. Economic Setting                      .          .            2
B. The Transport System                     .        .           3
C. Planning and Investments                   .        .         4
D.   Transport Regulation and Coordination           . .         4
3.   HIGHWAYS .............................................    5
A. The Network . .                                               5
B.   Characteristies and Growth of Road Traffic                   6
C.  The Road Transport Industry                 .      .         6
D. Administration .                       .                       7
E.  Engineering and Construction .                .               7
F. Maintenance .                        .                        8
G.  Financing ..................  8
4.  THE PROJECT .................                                     10
A. Description   .                      .10
-Feeder Road Improvement                .        .il
-Backlog Maintenance.                                      12
-Training Center   .                 .12
-Consulting Services   .               .12
B. Cost Estmates   .                      .13
C.  Execution and Procurement   .               .15
D.  Financing and Disbursements   .              .15
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .16
A. General   . .16
B.   Feeder Roads ..........................,.,. 16
C.   Backlog Maintenance ..........................             , 17
D.   Transport Plan           ...................   18
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .18
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Melegari (Engineer) and A. Byl
(Economist).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
TABLES:
1.   Road Network, 1974
2.   Registrations and Size of Vehicle Fleet: 1965, 1970-1974
3.   Fuel Consumption: 1970-1974
4.   Road User Contributions to Public Revenues:  1971 and 1973
5.   Highway Expenditure and Financing: 1970-1974
6.   Highway Maintenance Expenditures: 1974-1978
7.   Feeder Roads to be improved, and Work Schedule 1975-1978
8.   Feeder Road Design Standards
9.   Paved Roads to be maintained, and Work Schedule 1976-1978
10.   Feeder Road Element: Cost Estimates
11.   Maintenance Element: Cost Estimates
12.   Training Center Element: Cost Estimates for Procurement of
Equipment
13.   Consultant Services: Cost Estimates
14.   Synthesis of Cost Estimates with Proposed Financing
15.   Cumulative Disbursement Schedule, 1976-1979
16.   Feeder Roads to be improved, Summary Execution Schedule for
Economic Analysis
17.   Feeder Roads: Cost and Benefit Streams
18.   Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity of the Feeder Road
Element of the Project
19.   Vehicle Operating Costs per km not including taxes
20.   Backlog Maintenance Element: Cost and Benefit Streams
MAP:      MALI - Transport Network (IBRD 11682)



MALI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Mali's economy is primarily rural, with agriculture, livestock,
and fishing accounting for roughly half of Gross Domestic Product, and
employing almost 90% of the population. An efficient transport system is
vital in view of the country's landlocked position and the long distances
between economic centers.  The present system comprises four main elements:
3,300 km of all-weather roads; a 640 km railway linking the capital, Bamako,
with the port of Dakar (Senegal) via the Senegalese railroad; about 1,650 km
of inland waterways, navigable only about seven months per year; an interna-
tional airport at Bamako and about a dozen local airfields.  This system is
complemented by an extensive network of secondary roads and tracks which
provide access to rural areas.
ii.       The Covernment's transport strategy has focussed on developing
local infrastructure in support of overall economic growth, building an appro-
priate international network to reduce the country's foreign trade handicap,
and promoting regional integration.
iii.      Bank Group efforts in the transport sector, which began in 1966
with a project (Credit 95-4MLI, US$9.1 million) to help rehabilitate and
modernize the railway, have responded directly to these objectives. In 1969,
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financed, and the Bank super-
vised the execution of a countrywide transport survey which provided the
basis for subsequent Bank Group operations in the sector. These have inclu-
ded: (i) a First Highway Project (Credit 197-MLI, 1970, US$7.7 million) for
improvement of highway maintenance, upgrading of agricultural feeder roads,
and preparation of preinvestment studies to rehabilitate the country's two
main trunk roads, Bamako-Bougouni and Faladie-Segou; (ii) a Second Highway
Project (Credit 383-MLI, 1973, US$9.5 million, increased in 1975 to US$17.8
million) for rehabilitation of the two trunk roads abovementioned, preparation
of preinvestment studies for the Bamako-Kolokani road, and continuation of
technical assistance for the maintenance and feeder road components of the
first project; and (iii) a Second Railway Project (Credit 384-MLI, 1973,
US$6.7 million) for procurement of additional equipment and for track renewal.
iv.       The proposed Third Highway Project provides essentially for follow-
up operations to the improvement of road maintenance and of agricultural feeder
roads, efforts which were initiated under the First and Second Highway Projects.
The project consists of: (i) continuation over 3-1/2 years of a program for
improvement of about 1,200 km of feeder roads in the most productive cotton
and groundnut areas; (iî) a 3-year pro-ram for elimination of the backlog of
periodic maintenance on about 944 km of paved roads, and purchase of spare
parts and equipping of repair shops in two new subdivisions; (iii) procure-
ment of office equipment, teaching materials, and vehicles for the Training



- ii -
Center of the Department of Public. Works (DPW); and (iv) consulting services
for (a) technical assistance to DPW for implementation of the feeder road
improvement and the backlog maintenance programs, (b) preparation of a
training program for the DPW Center and training of teaching staff, and
(c) preparation of a study to establish a countrywide transport plan.
v.         The total cost of the project (including taxes and contingencies)
is estimated at US$13.4 million equivalent, of which US$8.4 million in foreign
costs (63%); the local costs of US$5.0 million equivalent include US$2.2 mil-
lion equivalent in taxes and duties. The proposed Credit of US$10 million
will finance the entire foreign cost of the project and an estimated US$1.6
million of the local costs, equivalent to about 89Z of total project costs
net of taxes. The Government will finance all taxes and duties, plus the
remaining local costs of about US$1.2 million equivalent.
vi.        Execution of the project will be primarily the responsibility of
DPW, with the National Transport Cffice (ONT), being responsible for imple-
mentation of the transport plan. The feeder road improvement and backlog
maintenance works will be executed by DPW's own forces established under the
two previous highway projects. The planned schedule is as follows: improve-
ment of feeder roads, January 1975 - mid-1978; elimination of backlog mainte-
nance, January 1976 - December 1978, with some training in 1975; consulting
services for technical assistance and the transport plan study, 1976-78.
The Association will provide retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
for the feeder road component in an amount estimated at US$900,000. Retro-
active financing will also be provided for some technical assistance and for
some materials necessary for bituminous road maintenance training (estimated
cost of USS200,000). All consultants for the proposed project will be employed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
vii.       The two ferries (US$0.6 million) which are simple in construction
and have to be assembled at the site, would not be attractive to suppliers
outside those currently established in Mali. They will therefore be procured
on the basis of local competitive bidding. Bitumen (US$2.3 million) may be
purchased from a refinery in Ivory Coast.  This procurement method provides
the best transport advantage, and will be acceptable to the Association as
long as the prices obtained are in line with international price standards.
Contracts for fuel (US$1 million) and other items estimated to cost less than
US$20,000 each (US$0.3 million in total), may be let on the basis of the
Borrower's standard procurement procedures provided these procedures shall
continue to be acceptable to the Association. The four vehicles for the
training center and the spare parts for the Highway Equipment Pool (US$0.6
million) will be procured from licensed dealers at list prices which are
reasonable. D)etails of these arrangements have been agreed upon with the
Government.
viii.      Disbursements from the proposed Credit for feeder road improvement
and for backlog maintenance operations will be made on the basis of applications
submitted by the Government indicating in detail all work carried out and ex-
penditures incurred. The Association will disburse 75% of the total c0st of
the project.



- iii -
ix.       Benefits of the feeder road and maintenance elements of the proposed
project will be perceived in lower vehicle operating coste and increased
agricultural production, and overall improved efficiency of the road transport
industry. Further, all works will be executed by DPW, which wlll use this
opportunity to strengthen the organizational structure built up under pre-
vious projects financed by the Association.
x.        The internal economic return on the feeder road component of the
project is estimated at about 17%; even with an increase in all costs or a
reduction of benefits of 25%, the return is still about 10%. The backlog
maintenance element of the project has a benefit/cost ratio of more than 3.
xi.       The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$10 million to
the Government of Mali on standard IDA terms.






MALI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In recent years, Government objectives in the transport sector
have been to develop local transport infrastructure in support of overall
development, to foster economic integration among the various regions, and
to reduce Mali's severe foreign trade handicap -- the result of its land-
locked geographic position -- by improving international transport infra-
structure. Bank Group operations in the sector have been geared to fulfill-
ing these objectives.
1.02      The Bank Group's association with the transport sector began in
September 1966 when the Association granted a first Credit (95-MLI, US$9.1
million) to the Governnent for railway rehabilitation and modernization. A
second railway project (Credit 384-MLI, US$6.7 million) followed in April
1973 within the framework of the Government's 1973-76 railway investment plan.
1.03      In 1969 UNMP financed, and the Bank executed, a countrywide trans-
port survey, which has formed the basis of subsequent Bank Group operations
in the sector. These have included a first project for highways (Credit
197-MLI, June 1970, US$7.7 million) which consisted of a four-year program
for strengthening highway maintenance and improvement of about 1,450 km of
agricultural feeder roads, as well as preinvestment studies for rehabilitation
of the two main trunk roads linking Bamako with Bougduni to the south (156 km)
via Faladie (10 km Southwest of Bamako), and Faladie with Segou to the northeast
(212 km). Under this project, the Government has built up a reasonably well-
trained and well-equipped maintenance organization and feeder road construction
unit. However, because of many delays caused by circumstances outside the
control of DPW, and also due to increased costs, only 470 km out of the
planned 1,450 km of feeder roads were completed when funds for the project
ran out at the end of 1974 (para. 4.02), and some backlog in maintenance has
been built up.
1.04      The Second llighway Project (Credit 383-MLI, May 1973, US$9.5 mil-
lion) consists of rehabilitation of the two trunk roads studied under the
first project; the purchase of highway maintenance equipment; preinvestment
studies for another road Bamako-Kati-Kolokani (115 km); continuation of tech-
nical assistance for highway maintenance and feeder road construction; and a
study of the trucking industry. The studies for Bamako-Kolokani have been
completed, but road construction has been found premature at this time. The
trucking industry study is underway, and is scheduled for completion during
1976. Regarding the two trunk roads and the equipment purchase, the United
Statés Agency for International Development (USAID) had agreed to finance
rehabilitation of Bamako-Faladie-Bougouni and the purchase of US$2 million of
equipment, and the Association to finance Faladie-Segou. However, because
of unexpected high bld prices, USAID could not finance Bamako-Bougouni with



-2-
its original US$9 million loan allocation; it therefore decided to reduce the
amount of the loan to US$2 million for a highway maintenance equipment pur-
chase and to grant-finance one bridge on the Bamako-Bougouni road which
needed urgent repa;Lr. The Government is seeking another source of fihancing
for the reconstruct-ion of Bamako-Bougouni. For Faladie-Segou, the Govern-
ment received five bids which, after thorough analysis, were found acceptable
in spite of their being 68% or more above appraisal estimates; the contract
was awarded to the lowest bidder, and work is progressing satisfactorily. On
June 3, 1975 the Association granted the Government a supplementary Credit of
US$8.3 million to finance the cost overrun resulting from the higher bid price
and the contractual price adjustment clause.
1.05      The Third Highway Project now proposed follows up the agricultural
feeder road improvement and maintenance work carried out under the previous
projects. It comprises: (i) a 3-1/2-year program for improvement of about
1,200 km of feeder roads; (ii) a 3-year program for eliminating the backlog
of periodic maintenance on about 944 km of paved roads, procurement of spare
parts and equipment of two new subdivision workshops; (iii) procurement of
office equipment, teaching materials, and vehicles for the DPW Training
Center; and (iv) consulting services for technical assistance to DPW for
implementation of the feeder road improvement and the backlog maintenance
programs; preparation of a training program for the DPW Center and for
training of teaching staff; and preparation of a countrywide transport plan.
The total cost of the proposed project (including taxes and contingencies)
is estimated at US$13.4 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of
US$8.4 million. Taxes total about US$2.2 million equivalent, and other local
costs about US$2.8 million equivalent.
1.06      This report is based on a feeder road feasibility study prepared
by consultants BCEOM (France), and on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. M. Melegari (Engineer) and A. Byl (Economist) which visited
Mali in January/February 1975.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Mali is a landlocked country in Africa's Sahel, covering about 1.24
million km2, with a sparse population (about 5.3 million) increasing at about
2% p.a. Cross Domestic Product (GDP) is less than US$100 per capita. Growth
of GDP over 1970-72 averaged 5% p.a. in real terms, but declined in 1973 and
1974 due to drought and energy problems. The northern regions of the country
are largely uninhabited desert; the southwest, where economic activity is
concentrated, has a rainy season from July to September, enough to grow staple
foods such as sorghum and millet, and drought-tolerant export crops such as
cotton and groundnuts. In the Niger River valley, there is some irrigated
and flood-recession cropping of rice.



- 3 -
2.02      The country suffers from several development constraints, the
principal of which are: (i) distance to the sea; the closest sea ports
are Dakar (Senegal), and Abidjan (Ivory Coast), both about 1,200 km from
Bamako, the capital (para. 2.06); (ii) lack of known mineral resources, (iii)
because of low and ill-distributed 'rainfall and generally poor soils, a weak
agricultural base; (iv) a serious shortage of skilled manpower, both tech-
nical and management; and (v) problems of communications due to the country's
large size, and its widely dispersed population. On the other hand, the
Malian people are hardworking, and accustomed to living under harsh climatic
conditions, with a minimum of social services.
2.03      Agriculture, including livestock and fisheries, is the mainstay of
the economy, accounting for nearly half of GDP (43% in 1972), and for virtually
all foreign exchange earnings (US$54 million equivalent in 1972). Rural activ-
ities provide a livelihood for about 85% of total population. Of the 2 mil-
lion ha under cultivation almost 1.7 million (85%) are devoted to food crops.
Cotton and groundnuts are the principal cash crops, and in a normal year
occupy about 90,000 ha and 250,000 ha respectively.
2.04      In recent years, performance of the agricultural sector has been
determined by fluctuations in weather conditions. The main feature, however,
has been an imbalance between rapid development of production for export,
and the significant decline in food crop production. Thus, despite adverse
weather, production of seed cotton rose from 39,000 tons in 1967 to 74,000
tons in 1971, and that of undecorticated groundnuts from 81,000 tons to
152,000 tons. Both these products have benefited from well-coordinated pro-
grams carried out by adequately staffed and financed units of "Operations
de Developpement" (OD), which have supplied extension assistance and modern
inputs; in addition, efficient marketing channels have been set up and producer
prices established which have given good incentives to farmers. The present
project is in direct support of the cotton and groundnut operations, and is
an essential input in ensuring continuation of the growth record.
B.   The Transport System
2.05      The transport system is fairly extensive.  Its infrastructure con-
sists of about 13,200 km of roads of which 3,300 km are all-weather; 640 km
of railway linking Bamako with Koulikoro and Kayes, and with the port of Dakar
via the Senegal Railway; 1,650 km of inland waterways, navigable about seven
months per year; an international airport at Bamako; and about a dozen local
airfields.
2.06      The main external traffic flow has traditionally been through the
port of Dakar via the railway. Since 1960, however, almost 20% of this flow
has passed through the port of Abidjan, and then by road or rail/road through
Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. While land distances by either route are roughly
1,200 km long, transport costs per ton-km are about one-third more through
Abidjan than through Dakar. This is because the sea transport distance from
Eturope to Abidjan is longer than to Dakar, and because transport between
Abidjan and Bamako is partly or completely by road, which is more expensive
per ton-km than rail transport; nevertheless, the Government is interested
in keeping the Abidjan option open.  Alternative routes through Conakry



- 4 -
(Guinea), Buchanan (Liberia) and San Pedro (Ivory Coast) appear to be shorter
than through Abidjan, but so far none of these routes has been developed for
either historic or political reasons.
C.   Planning and Investments
2.07      Investments for each transport subsector are planned by the appro-
priate department or agency in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTPW), and in accordance with the broad objectives of the Govern-
ment's Five-Year Development Plan 1974-78. The most recent transport survey
for the country was prepared in 1969 by the Belgian consultants Tractionel,
with UNDP financing and the Bank as executing agency. The Government now
wishes to update this survey as much as possible by its own means, and has
asked the Association to assist in the organization of such a study and as
far as necessary to finance the consulting and technical assistance services
required to prepare this new transport plan (para. 4.08).
2.08      Investments in transport infrastructure during the three-year plan
period 1971-73 averaged MF 4.3 billion (US$10 million) annually, or some 20%
of gross fixed investment. Estimated expenditures in the sector in the 1974-
78 plan average MF 16 billion (US$36 million) annually at 1974 prices, equiva-
lent to about 20% of total planned investments; however, the cost of these
investments has been substantially underestimated, and may have to be increased
by as much as 25% - 100%, depending on the project. This underestimation indi-
cates a lack of planning inputs and review procedures which should be remedied
through the transport survey to be carried out under the present project.
The first phase of the survey will develop suggestions for the creation and/
or strengthening of appropriate planning and review units in the Ministries
of Transport and Public Works, and Planning. About 75% of transport expendi-
tures are scheduled for road development, about 21% divided equally between
railway and air transport infrastructure, and about 4% will be allocated to
river navigation. In preparing the proposed transport plan, the overall
size of the proposed investments and the soundness of the modal distribution,
as well as the country's ability to finance and maintain the entire network
will have to be studied closely (paras. 3.16-3.20).
D.   Transport Regulation and Coordination
2.09      The Government has considerable control over the major transport
companies: Regie des Chemins de Fer du Mali (RCFM), the Malian railways7
Compagnie Malienne des Transports Routiers (CMTR), a trucking company which
carries about 20% of total road freight, Compagnie Malienne de Navigation
(COMANAV), a navigation company handling about 70% of waterway traffic; and
Air Mhali, the only domestic air carrier, which also handles a considerable
amount of international traffic. Furthermore, the Government controls the
truck fleets of state enterprises, and in sOme way regulates all rail and
most air traffic tariffs, as well as most of river navigation and trucking
tariffs.



- 5 -
2.10      Since 1975 the newly created MTPW is responsible for overall trans-
port coordination and for the execution of public works. The Ministries of
Finance, and of Planning, are also involved in various aspects of transporta-
tion. This new organization will reduce the overlap in transport responsi-
bilities which existed between the former Ministries of Transport, Tourism
and Telecommunications and of Public Works. It will now be possible to
improve coordination especially in the areas of investment planning and
intermodal distribution, and to develop a closer association between physi-
cal and financial planning. Regarding intermodal coordination, there are
still conflicting views on whether, and to what extent, certain types of
transport should be used or created. This is the case in the Kayes-Bamako
corridor where the options are road and rail, and in the Koulikoro-Gao
corridor where the alternatives are road and river. Conflicts of interest
also exist over the choice between air or road transport for long-distance
travel in the southwest, and for all communications in the northeast.
2.11      The major problem regarding railways seems to be the Government's
growing discontent with the handling of import/export traffic on the Bamako-
Dakar line. The difficulty, however, is mainly due to delays in transferring
goods at the port of Dakar on the Senegalese railway; this problem is outside
the control of the Malian Government, and the Bank Group is trying to find
a solution through an ongoing railway project in Senegal. Further attempts
will be made to improve cooperation between the Malian and the Senegalese
railways within the framework of a possible Third Railway Project in Mali.
The Government has also recently obtained UNDP financing for a transport
study in the Bamako-Kayes area, including a possible Bamako-Kayes road link
parallel to the existing railway; the Bank Group has agreed to be executing
agency for this study.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      Mali's 13,200 km of roads are classified as national, regional,
or local, according to the importance of traffic carried and the centers they
serve (Table 1). About 3,300 km are all-weather roads, of which about half
are paved and half gravelled: the remainder of the network consists of unen-
gineered earth roads or tracks which are often impassable during the rainy
season.
3.02      The national and regional network carries most of the traffic and
is fairly well developed, linking the main centers of economic activity
with each other and with the transport networks of neighboring Niger, Upper
Volta and Ivory Coast. Due to lack of funds, however, the Government has not
been able to maintain these economically vital roads to the required standard.
Highest priorities in the hîghway stib-sector are therefore the maintenance
and selective rehabilitation of paved and gravelled roads, as well as mainte-
nance and improvement of earth roads and tracks serving agricultural areas.



B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      According to 1974 counts, traffic volumes average 135 vehicles per
day (vpd) on paved roads, 34 vpd on gravel surfaces, and about 10 vpd on earth
roads and tracks. Trucks account for about 45% of total traffic, indicating
the importance of road freight transport. Most trucks have a loading capacity
of between 6 and 10 tons and are generally used to collect produce in the rural
areas. In addition, some heavy trucks and combination tractor/trailers are
used for long-distance transport.
3.04      In 1974, the vehicle fleet was estimated at about 19,000, of
which about 62% were passenger cars, 21% vans and pick-ups, and 17% trucks
and buses (Table 2). Over 1965-70, the average rate of increase of the fleet
was about 10% p.a.; this rate dropped to 6% between 1970 and 1972, and in-
creased again to 7% between 1973 and 1974. Between 1972 and 1973 the size of
the vehicle fleet actually declined by 2%. The ongoing trucking industry
study under the Second Highway Project will reassess the size, age, composi-
tion, and adequacy of the vehicle fleet.
3.05      Fuel consumption increased by some 5.4% p.a. between 1970 and 1973,
but dropped by about 9.9% in 1974 (Table 3). According to available data,
overall traffic grew by roughly 6% between 1970 and 1972, anci by about 4%
between 1972 and 1974. Based on past trends and on the projected growth
rate of the economy, traffic on the main network is expected to increase by
at least 4% p.a. over the next ten years (para 5.07).
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.06      The Government, through YTPW, administers the road transport industry,
controlling tariffs and the distribution of international as well as important
local freight.  Trucking organizations are many, and range from a large cooper-
ative to individual owners. The Union Nationale des Cooperatives des Trans-
porteurs Routiers (UNCTR) is a cooperative consisting of some 550 vehicle
owners; the Compagnie Malienne des Transports Routiers (CUMTR) is a stat&--owned
company with 250 vehicles of which 58 are buses for passenger transport.
There are also a number of companies which have about 10-30 trucks, and many
independent small firms with up to about four trucks.
3.07      The efficiency of the trucking industry is low.  The industry is
faced with such problems as poor management and organization, and a seasonal
work cycle based on the agricultural calendar, all of which have resulted
in a low average load factor. Part of the efficiency problem also seems to
stem from the low truckers' rates which the Government kept fixed from 1967
until October 1974, when pending the results of the trucking industry study,
it awarded carriers a 43% interim rate increase. This rate adjustment was
however quickly offset by the rise in operating costs which resulted from
the increase in fuel costs and overall high inflation rates.
3.08      One of the principal objectives of the trucking industry study
scheduled for completion in 1976, [s to determine the extent to which these
fixed low rates have caused truckers to lose incentives for new investments;



-7-
also, to what extent the 'difficult trucking situation has been caused by
inadequate management, organization, and maintenance, or the lack of liquidity
of the state trucking enterprises. Another purpose of the study is to deter-
mine the eventual need for technical assistance to help promote the trucking
industry (para. 1.04).
D.   Administration
3.09      The MTPW has overall transport sector responsibilities (para. 2.10),
its Directorate of Public Works (DPW), is responsible for highway planning,
design, and construction, and for maintenance of all roads except local earth
roads and tracks which are maintained by voluntary labor.
3.10      DPW has been extensively reorganized over the past five years, and
the responsibility for highway administration is now shared among several divi-
sions, each under the direct control of the Director-General of Public Works:
(i) the Bureau of Planning and Control prepares highway development programs
and coordinates the work of the other divisions; (ii) the Central Technical
Service supervises consultants' studies, and carries out engineering for
minor road works; (iii) the Administrative and Accounting Service manages the
Road Fund (para. 3.15) and performs general accounting vork; (iv) the Roads
and Bridges Division is responsible for supervision of construction, contracts,
and for maintenance of all roads except earth roads and tracks; (v) the Highway
Equipment Pool (HEP) repairs and maintains all highway equipment and vehicles;
the Pool has a central workshop in Bamako, and smaller workshops in the 13 sub-
divisions; (vi) the Division of New Works vas specially created under the
First Highway Project to carry out the feeder road program.
3.11      The DPW staff includes about 20 Malian engineers, 60 technicians,
and 1,500 workers with varying levels of skill and training. Technical assist-
ance for strengthening the organization of DPW and training of its staff was
provided under the previous two highway projects. The results have been most
encouraging, but further training of technicians and laborers is still needed
on a continuing basis. The Government, with the assistance of the Association,
is setting up a DPW Training Center for technicians and laborers. The building
for the Center has been financed under the Second Highway Project, and equipment
and technical assistance will be provided under the proposed third project
(para. 4.07).
E.   Engineering and Construction
3.12      The Central Technical Service of DPW engineers minor road works, and
entrusts major designs to consultants.  A state-owned consulting firm, the
Societe d'Etudes du Mali (SEMA), has been in operation since 1970, and has
carried out highway feasibility studies and engineering work jointly with
foreign consultants. DPW's own Surveying Institute and well-equipped National
Public Works Laboratory are usually retained as sub-contractors to participate
in highway engineering studies. The laboratory is equipped to perforo almost
all soil and material tests required for design and supervision.



- 8 -
3.13      Over the past few years, construction of major highways has been
executed primarily by foreign contractors, and to a lesser extent by DPW's
own forces and the Malian Arâiy.  DPW has concentrated largely on simple
construction works, and has acquired good skill in this field. The state-
owned construction firm SONETRA has recently cut back its highway construc-
tion activity, concentrating instead on building construction. About 25 small,
privately-owned local firms are also involved in building construction. With
appropriate training and financial assistance, some of these firms could branch
into civil works construction, and discussions on the possibility of Bank Group
assistance in this effort will be initiated with the Government during prepa-
ration of future highway projects. Meanwhile, the present project, as a con-
tinuation of the highway maintenance and feeder roads improvement programs,
is designed to make use of the DPW brigades equipped under the First Highway
Project.
F.   Maintenance
3.14      As mentioned in paras. 3.09 and 3.10, DPW's Roads & Bridges Division
maintains all roads except earth roads and tracks, and its Highway Equipment
Pool repairs and upkeêps the equipment and vehicle fleet. While the basic
organization of both these services was considerably strengthened under the
previous two highway projects, maintenance guidelines, techniques and methods
still need to be better defined, and further improvements are required in
data collection, reporting, and book-keeping. Moreover, the output of the
highway maintenance brigades has been inadequate, primarily because of a
shortage of funds and of fuel due to factors beyond the Government's control
(inflation, stoppage of supplies, and the continuous drought between 1969-73).
G.   Financing
3.15      Road users contribute to Government revenues through specific taxes
on fuel and lubricants, ad valorem import duties on vehicles, equipment, and
spare parts, and annual vehicle registration charges. Revenues from the fuel
tax are deposited directly into the Road Fund 1/, while those from the other
road user taxes go into the generaL budget.  In 1973, road user contributions
totalled MF 3.8 billion (US$8.5 million), which would have been sufficient
to cover 120% of all highway expenditures in that year (Table 4). Coa-
plete data for 1974 are not yet available, but there was probably a sharp
reduction in receipts due to a decline in fuel consumption and in purchase
of motor vehicle spare parts.
3.16      In the period 1971-74, highway expenditures averaged MTF 4.3 billion
(US$9.6 million) annually, of which about 75% spent on investments and the
remainder on maintenance including administration. Financing was provided
from external aid (MF 2.3 billion per year on the average) (Table 5). Total
expenditures on maintenance and administration represented about 4% of current
I/   The Road Fund is an independent account in a local bank, which is used
to finance road maintenance and construction activities as well as DPW's
overhead. The Road Fund is administered by the Director-General of
Public Works.



budgetary cesources including the Road Fund, and total highway expenditures
about 16%. With an ambitious road investment program and the rising cost of
maintaining an expanding network, the Government is likely to experience
increasing difficulty in financing future highway expenditures.
3.17      Over the new plan period 1974-78, road investment expenditures are
expected to amount to about MF 12 billion (US$27 million) annually. These
figures, however, are estimates of the Directorate of Planning and DPW at
underestimated 1974 prices. To reflect real prices they have to be increased
by as much as 25 to 100%, depending on the project (para. 2.08).
3.18      In 1974, Government expenditures for highway maintenance (including
DPW overhead and equipment renewal and spare parts) totalled MF 1.5 billion
(US$3.4 million) (Table 6). DPW has estimated that expenditures would have
to be considerably higher to achieve an adequate standard of maintenance.
The Government indicated to the appraisal mission that this matter would be
thoroughly reviewed, and later informed the Association that the Road Fund
budget had already been increased from MF 1.8 billion in 1974 to budgeted
revenues and expenditures of about MF 2.3 billion in 1976. The Association
intends to keep monitoring this problem in the framework of the economic
mission planned for 1976 (para. 3.21), as well as through the proposed trans-
port plan study and review of its results with the Goverament (para. 3.22).
3.19      The resources required for normal maintenance of the existing
transport network appear to be approaching or already to exceed what can
reasonably be set aside in the Government's current budget or permanently
appropriated, quite apart from the possibility of additional maintenance
arising from further expansion of the road network. The Government will
therefore have to find additioÜal highway revenues by lncreasing fuel taxes
or earmarking more or all road user taxes for highway purposes.
3.20      This clearly means that Government will also have to scale down
its investment program for the current five-year plan period. The proposed
new transport plan study will re-evaluate and update the plan in light of
traffic needs, the new cost structures, and the country's financial position.
The Government has agreed to review with the Association its five-year
transport investment plan based on the recommendations of the forthcoming
transport plan study.
3.21      In order to find a solution to the basic issues raised by the finan-
cial constraints described above, the Association is proposing to continue
discussion with the Government on determining the level of current and capital
resources which can reasonably be set aside for the sector in the light of
the needs for maintenance and investment and of other priorities; it has
already been arranged with the Government that the forthcoming economic
mission (Spring 1976) will deal with this issue.
3.22      Tn the meantime, the Government has agreed to the following:
(a)  to keep a separate accounting system for all road mainte-
nance expenditures, and to establish a system of accounts



- 10 -
related to different roacl categories as an initial
step towards performance budgeting;
(b)  to meet al! maintenance requirements out of Road Fund
resources lefore allocating funds for road construction
work;
(c)  to include in the new transport plan a study of the cost
and benefits, for different road categories, of different
standards of maintenance (para. 4.08); and to carry out
this study in light of the financial constraints determined
above;
(d) to establish, on the basis of the results of the transport
plan study, a feasible physical and financial medium-term
plan for road maintenance, and then to review any outstanding
road lnvestment or road improvement proposals in the light
of resources and priorities for further capital expenditures.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project is composed of:
(a) a feeder road component consisting of the continuation over
three and a half years of the feeder road improvement program
initiated under the First Highway Project (about 1200 km are
planned to be completed);
(b) a maintenance component consisting of a three-year program
to eliminate the backlog of periodic maintenance on about
944 km of paved roads, procuring of spare parts, and equipping
of two new subdivision workshops;
(c) procurement of office equipment, teaching materials, and
vehicles for the DPW Training Center at Bamako; and
(d) consulting services for:
(i)  technical assistance to DPW for implementation of the
feeder road improvement and backlog maintenance pro-
grams;
(ii)  preparation of a training program for the DPW Training
Center and training teaching staff; and



- il -
(iii) preparation of a study to establish a countrywide
transport plan, including the organization and eventually
staffing of a unit to execute the study in the Ministry
of Transport and Public Works.
Feeder Road Improveeent
4.02      The 1969 UADP Transport Survey recommended that the Government
construct and improve feeder roads to facilitate evacuation of agricultural
products from areas under cultivation, and to encourage expansion of production
in new areas. Accordingly, the Bank Group's First Highway Project included
a four-year program to improve 1,450 km of feeder roads in the most productive
cotton and groundnut areas. When funds ran out at end-1974, however, only
about 470 km had been improved. There were two main reasons for the program's
low output: (a) a longer than expected organization and mobilization phase,
resulting in an 18-month delay in start of field work; (b) most important,
a shortage of fuel and spare parts, related to the Sahelian drought, the
energy crisis and worldwide inflation, making it impossible for the Government
to provide the additional funds needed for the program.
4.03      The 1,200 km of feeder roads to be improved under the proposed
Third Highway Project consist of some 750 km out of the remaining 980 km
from the first project, and some 450 km selected from an 800 km complementary
progràm prepared by the technical assistance consultants employed under the
second project. The choice of roads to be improved was based on a thorough
reassessment of priorities by the consultants, the Government, and the
Association. Table 7 gives a list of the roads selected, the schedule for
work execution, and estimated costs. For two of the most trafficked feeder
roads, it will be necessary to purchase two ferries for river crossing, and
to prepare ferry approaches on the river banks. The feeder road design
standards (Table 8) were developed by DPW assisted by consultants and in
cooperation with the Association, and were based on experimentation carried
out under the first project. These new standards are uniform for all roads,
and are at the lower end of the spectrum used in the previous phases of the
improvement program.
4.04      The personnel of the feeder road units are dedicated and efficient;
they have benefited considerably from continuous on-the-job training under
the previous two projects, and should be able to carry out the planned pro-
Fram within the set time schedule as long as adequate funds are provided. The
Iroposed project provides for the operating costs of these units. Since equip-
ment and men vere already organized and in place, and because the Government
expects the Association to provide retroactive financing under the proposed
project, it decided to resume feeder road improvement works with its own funds
in 1975. The Association wi1l provide retroactive financing for expenditures
incurred for this project item in an amount estimated at US$900,000 (para. 4.16).



- 12 -
Backlog Maintenance
4.05      During the First and Second Highway Projects, MF 1.1 billion
(US$2.4 million) of highway maintenance equipment was purchased, a central
workshop was completed, and field workshops were renovated and modernized.
In addition, an accounting and inventory system was established to keep
up-to-date records on the conditions, utilization, and maintenance of all
equipment, and road maintenance staff at all levels were trained. The field
work which concentrated mainly on gravel roads, was less than expected, for
the same reasons as those mentioned in para. 4.02 above regarding feeder road
improvement.
4.06      The maintenance element of the proposed project aims mainly at
eliminating a substantial backlog of periodic maintenance on 944 km of paved
roads over a three-year period 1976-1978.  The project provides for operating
costs of the paved road maintenance ainits established under the previous high-
way projects. The program will consist of the following work: backlog patch-
ing of about 186 km, patching and resealing of about 580 km, patching and
single-surface treatment of about 150 km, and reconstruction to double-surface
treatment standards of two road sections totalling about 28 km. Table 9 shows
a list of these roads and schedules for work execution. The maintenance
component of the project includes also the purchase of spare parts to
increase the stock of the HEP from 3Z of the replacement value of the
available equipment to a more appropriate 15%, and the equipment of two new
subdivision workshops to be created in areas where feeder roads have been
completed under the previous project.
Trainin,-, Center
4î.07     A DPW Training Center is being constructed at Bamako with funds
)riginally provided under the Second Highway Project for training overseas,
but which were later redirected at the Government's request. The proposed
project will provide office equipment, teaching materials, and four vehicles
for operation of this Center, as well as 33 man-months of consulting services
For preparation of a training program and training of teaching staff (para.
;.08). Up to 4 man-months of this assistance will be financed retroactively.
_onsulting Services
i.08      In addition to the abovementioned training assistance to DPW, the
iroposed project provides 52 man-months of consulting services to help DPW
2arry out the improvement of feeder roads and the maintenance of paved roads.
Lhese services will be the last phase of a successful technical assistance
Žffort which started in 1972. This final effort will concentrate on training
in the use of paved road maintenance equipment which arrived late, and on
Lmprovement of data-collection and accounting procedures for road maintenance
md feeder road improvement.  Out of the total of 85 man-months of technical
issistance mentioned above for training and for improvement and maintenance



- 13 -
works, it is expected that about 6 man-months will be financed retroactively
(para. 4.16). The project also provides for 50 man-months of consulting
services to prepare a new transport plan. This plan would be expected to
reassess transport priorities, examine the,problems affecting the sector,
and récommend solutions.  Work on, the plan will have to be closely coordinated
wïth the Trucking Industry Study and the Banako-Kayes Area Transport Study
(para. 2.11). Terms of reference for the technical assistance to DPW and
the Training Center have been agreed upon at negotiations. The Government
will try, with the help of the Association to execute as much as possible
of the transport plan study by its own means. Only what cannot be done by
Government institutions, eventually strengthened by IDA financed technical
assistance, will be given to consultants. The organization and the necessary
terms of reference for the transport plan study will be discussed and agreed
upon with future IDA supervision missions.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.09       Total project costs, including taxes and contingencies, are estimated
at US$13.4 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$8.4 million;
local costs of US$5.0 million equivalent include about US$2.2 million in
taxes and duties. Details of cost estimates are shown in Tables 10-13; a
sumunary of the estimates including taxes is shown on the next page.
4.10       Thti cost of feeder road improvement has been estimated on the basis
of actual expenditures per kilometer on feeder roads improved under the First
Highway Project. The cost of maintenance operations on paved roads has been
estimated on the basis of data contained in the consultants' study for the
Bamako-Kolokani road. All other costs are based on quotations obtained in
Bamako from suppliers and consultants.
4.11       Contingencies for quantity variations have been judged necessary
for this project at a rate of 10%. The exception concerns backlog maintenance
work not previously executed and difficult to estimate; 15% has been taken for
this item (Tables 10 - 13). Contingencies for price increase have been added
to the cost estimates at December 1974 prices on the following basis, and
take into account the execution schedules shown in para. 4.12.
1975       1976       1977-1978
Civil Works                16%        14%           12%
Equipment purchase         15%        10%            -
Consultants' services    15%          10%            8%



- 14 -
Cost Estimates Including Taxes
Foreign
----- HF million …----US$ thousand----  Component
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total    (%)
A.   Items with-
out contin-
gencies       1,579   2,519    4,098   3,509   5,598   9,107         61
(1)  Feeder road
improve-
ment          1,012      934    1,946   2,249   2,075   4,324        48
(2)  Backlog
Maintenance-   393   1,181    1,574        873   2,625   3,498       75
(3)  Training
Center /1        14       31       45       31       69      100     69
(4)  Consulting
services        160      373      533      356      829   1,185      70
B.   Contingencies
for quantity
increases       146      343      489      324      762   1,086      70
C.   Contingencies
for price
increases /2   524      892    1,416   1,165   1,982   3,147         63
1).  Total         2 249   3 754    6 003   4,998   8,342  13 340          63
(Rounded)                                5,000   8,400  13,400
V!  )Does not include consulting services (see item A 4).
/2   Price contingencies have been calculated as shown in para. 4.11.



- 15 -
C.   Execution and Procurement
4.12      The planned execution schedule is as follows:  (i) feeder road work
from January 1975 to mid-1978; (ii) preparation of river banks for ferries
from January 1976 to June 1977; (iii) maintenance work from January 1976 to
December 1978 with some training in 1975; (iv) delivery of ferries, spare
parts, and equipment, mid-1976; (v) consulting services for technical assist-
ance, 10 man/months in 1975, and 75 in 1976/77; and (vi) transport plan study,
1976-1978.
4.13      DPW vill be responsible for execution of all elements of the project
except the transport plan, which will be the responsibility of ONT. The feeder
road improvement and backlog maintenance works will be executed by DPW's forces
established under the previous two highway projects. Consultants vill assist
DPW in carrying out improvement and maintenance works, and in training of its
staff. The consultants for technical assistance, training, and preparation
of the transport plan study, will be employed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
4.14      The two ferries (US$0.6 million) which are simple in construction
and have to be assembled at the site, would not be attractive to suppliers
outside those currently established in Mali. They will therefore be procured
on the basis of local competitive bidding. Bitumen (US$2.3 million) may be
purchased from a refinery in Ivory Coast. This procurement method provides
the best transport advantage, and will be acceptable to the Association as
long as the prices obtained are in line with international price standards.
Contracta for fuel (US$1 million) and other items estimated to cost less than
US$20,000 each (US$0.3 million in total), may be let on the basis of the
Borrower' s standard procurement procedures provided these procedures shall
continue to be acceptable to the Association. The four vehicles for the
training center and the spare parts for the Highway Equipment Pool (US$0.6
million) will be procured from licensed dealers at list prices which are
reasonable. Details of these arrangements have been agreed upon with the
Government.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.15      The proposed Credit of US$10 million would finance the foreign costs
of the project estimated at US$8.4 million plus US$1.6 million equivalent of
the local costs, representing in total 89% of project costs net of taxes. The
Government will finance the remaining local costs net of taxes, estimated at
US$1.2 million equivalent, plus about US$2.2 million equivalent in taxes and
duties. Table 14 shows a summary of the cost estimates and the proposed
financing plan for the project. Retroactive financing by the Association to
a maximum of US$1.1 million is provided to meet expenditures incurred on
feeder road improvement works, bituminous road maintenance, and about 10 man-
months of technical assistance (paras. 4.04, 4.07, and 4.08).



- 16 -
4.16      Disbursements ror feeder road improvement and paved road maintenance
will be made on the basis of applications submitted by the Government indicat-
lng in detail all work carried out and expenditures incurred. The operating
cost of the feeder road and maintenance units include wages and salaries,
equipment rental without depreciation at rates established by the Equipment
Pool, supplies of materials, and overhead for management and supervision.
4.17      Credit proceeds will be disbursed at a rate of 75% of the total
cost of the project.
4.18      To avoid delays in the progress of work under this project due to
lack of liquidity of the Road Fund, a revolving fund of US$500,000 will be
opened by the Association in a local bank immediately after the date of
effectiveness of the credit. The Government will be allowed to use this
account for expenditures for the project eligible for financing under the
proposed credit.
4.19      Table 15 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the
Credit Account. Any funds remaining in the Account on completion of the
project will be used for additiona'L feeder road improvement.
5. ECONOMIC' EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The proposed project is clesigned to expand the agricultural
feeder road network, and to improve the efficiency of Mali's major road
system. These aims are in lîne wit:h current Government policy, and are a
direct continuation of the Associat:ion's First and Second Highway Projects.
Both feeder road improvement and road maintenance will be executed by DP,
which will take advantage of this opportunity to further improve the c -iza
tional structure built up under the! previous projects. Through transpor.-
improvement, the present project iES expected to support and stimulate economic
activity in its zones of influence.  The proposed project is economic;^ fl.
sound, with an internal rate of return of about 17% for the feeder r  C
element, and a Benefit/Cost ratio of more than 3 for the maintenance element.
B.   Feeder Roads
5.02      The 1,200 km feeder road improvement program will be executed
over a three and a half year period (Table 16). Vehicle operating costs on
the roads to be improved are high, and during the rainy season, the roads
are largely impassable.  The economic analysis assumes an eleven-year life
span for each improved feeder road, with regular maintenance each year and
regravelling to be executed in the sixth year. The improvement cost of an
average kilometer of feeder road is about MF 1.1 million (US$4,450).



- 17 -
5.03      The feeder road project is conceived in direct support of ongoing
cotton, groundnut, and general agricultural schemes for which the agricultural
support institutions, CFDT (Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des
Fibres Textiles) and BDPA (Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production
Agricole, called "Operation Arachides" in Mali), and the European Development
Fund (EDF) are providing technical and financial assistance. The goal of these
programs is to double production along the 28 feeder roads in the five-year
period following their improvement, and again in the next five years. These
targets were confirmed by CFDT and BDPA and can be considered realistic.  Yet
in determining the economic rate of return for this project, a very conserva-
tive 9% average rate of production increase per year has been assumed for the
first five years (or 54% in total), and 5% for the remaining 6 years (or 42%
in total).
5.04      In calculating the rate of return, only operating cost savings of
trucks travelling on project roads have been considered as benefits, while
all expenditures, including technical assistance and overhead, have been
taken into account as costs (Table 17). The rate of return on each feeder
road individually is at least 10%, and the rate of return on the whole feeder
road component is about 17%. Even with an increase in all costs or a reduc-
tion of benefits by 25%, the rate of return remains about 10% (Table 18).
As very conservative estimates of benefits were used in the calculations
(para. 5.03), this rate of return is considered satisfactory. In view of
the favorable economic return arrived at when only trucks were counted, it
was not considered necessary to determine potential savings of passenger-car
drivers. Increased agricultural production and overall improved communications
have been considered as benefits of agricultural extension schemes only, and
excluded from consideration in this project. Truck operating cost savings
between an unimproved earth track and an improved and well-maintained feeder
road have been estimated at 42% (Table 19).  This is in line with experience
in other West African countries. The benefit/cost ratio is 1.29 at 10%, and
1.19 at 12% interest.
5.05      Direct benefits of feeder road improvements are expected to go
to the rural population through easier access to fields and extension
services, and through higher production. As the increased output will be
accompanied by decreased vehicle operating costs for the Government agencies
that collect and market the crops, these savings can then be expected not
only to improve the financial situation of the agencies, but also to allow
them to redistribute part of their savings in the form of higher producer
prices and/or better quality of service.
C.   Backlog Maintenance
5.06      The maintenance element of the proposed project consists primarily
of the execution of backlog maintenance on 944 km of the most travelled
paved roads in the country. No attempt was made to calculate a cost/benefit
ratio for the two other small elements of this project item (spare parts



- 18 -
and new workshops) as the benefit/cost ratio of the maintenance element is
high enough to absorb a considerable amount of additional co0tS (para. 5.08),
two to three times the present estimate.
5.07      Daily trafEic over the roads to be resurfaced averaged some 135
vpd in 1974 (roughly 47 trucks and 88 passenger cars). The growth rate of
traffic has been assumed at 4% per year over the life of the project, com-
pared with more than 5% per year over the past ten years. Benefits from
the proposed maintenance operations have been expressed in vehicle operating
cost savings for a period of 20 years for reconstruction, five years for
resealing and resurfacing, and one year for regular backlog patching. Costs
for routine maintenance during the life of the works have been added to the
cost of the maintenance operations (Table 20).
5.08      The benefit/cost ratio of the maintenance element of the project is
3.4 at 10% interest, and 3.2 at 12% interest. This is equivalent to a rate
of return of about 120%, which is so high that it was not necessary to do a
sensitivity analysis for this project element.
5.09      Benefits from backlog maintenance of paved roads will in the short
run directly accrue to owners of passenger cars and trucks, including the
Government. Over the medium term, the Government, which controls freight and
passenger rates for international traffic, is expected to pass some of these
benefits on to the consumer in the form of lover transport tariffs.  On na-
tional roads where there is keen competition among truckers, project benefits
are likély to be passed on directly to the consumer in the form of reduced
transport charges, which constitute a large element in overall commodity costs,
and in the form of improved quality of service.
D.   Transport Plan
5.10      The most recent Transport Survey dates back to 1969, and needs coh-
siderable revision in view of the drastically changed transport cost situation.
The study of a new transport plan is expected to contribute to more realistic
objectives, more rigorous resource allocation, and substantial savings in
investment outlays over the next plan period.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations on the proposed Credit, agreement vas reached
with the Government on the following principal points:
(i) based on the recommendations of the proposed new transport
plan study, the Government vill review with the Association
its five-year transport investment plan, with a view to
scaling down investments (para. 3.20);



- 19 -
(ii)  (a) the DPW will keep a separate accounting system for all
road maintenance expenditures, and will establish a system
of accounts related to different road categories as an
initial step towards performance budgeting; (b) it will
meet all maintenance requirements out of Road Fund resources
before allocating funds for road construction work; and (c)
on the basis of the results of the transport plan study, will
establish a feasible physical and financial medium-term plan
for road maintenance, and then review any outstanding proposals
for road investment or improvement in the light of resources
and priorities for further capital expenditures (para. 3.22);
(iii)  details of terms of reference for technical assistance to
DPW and the Training Center (para 4.08);
(iv)  disbursements from the Credit Account for feeder road improvement
and paved road maintenance vill be made on the basis of applica-
tions submitted by the Government indicating in detail all
work carried out and expenditures incurred (para. 4.16);
(v) the use of a revolving fund (para. 4.18);
(vi)  the use of remaining funds after completion of other items of
the project for additional feeder road improvement (para. 4.19).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$10 million to
the Government of Mali on standard IDA terms.
November 25, 1975






'Table 1
THIRID HIGIIWJAY PROJECT
Road Network, 1974
(Length in kilometers and average daily
traffic in number of vehicles)
Technical Classification
Administrative                                        Total
Classification                                        Length
Paved    Gravel      Tracks        Nletwork
National
Roads (NR)        1,587      1,110       3,0h9         5,746
Reelonal
Roàds 5ER)            35       528       5,1 78        5,741
Local
Roads (LR)             9        40       1,664         1,713
TOTAL 1,631      1,678       9,891         13,200
of which maintained by the DPW             11i,536
(NR + RR + IR paved and gravelled)
of which all-weather roads                  3,300
Average daily tnu2M  135        34          10            28
Source:  Department of Public Works (DPW)
August 1975



'Dib1e 2
lA LI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
fRegistrations andi Size of Vehicle Yleett  165  1 970 - 1974
(in number of vehicles)
Type of Vehicle            1965   1970   1971   1972   1973  17h4  '4of Total in
1973   197M
Registrations ]/during the year
Passenger Cars             n n.. 1,359  1,455  1,428  1 ,591  1 ,714       3      rz6
Vans, pick-ups_            na-.   56?   485    508    610    764          24 2h    f
Trucks                     nOa-   16.3    249    279    199    386         8     13
Trailer trucks             n.a.     23      87     24      80    126       4       l
Buses                      n.a.    -       12      2X    i2                        2
Total               1,729  2,111L  2,288  2,263  2,506 3,0o0        100    100
of which                    -
Temporary reg.         333    33L      373    296   536    525r
Total Number of Vehicles a; the end of the
-ear_
Passenger Cars            4,522 3,775  9,675  10,485 11 ,093 11 ,870      63     62
Vans, pick-ups2/          2,668  3,667  3,672   3,841  3,720  3,968       21      21
Trucks                    2,098 2,734  2,845   2,649  2,U82  2,620        14    1l
Trailer trucks              117   262    256       225    296    406       2       2
Buses                        88    20      89       97    114    137       -      1
Total                9,493 15,532 16,537  17,300 17,705 19,001    100    100
- ~~    ___ 
Average annual increase of       1965 - 1970 aboutlO percent
vehicle fleet between:           1965 - 1974 about 8>percent
1970 - 1972 about 6 percent
1972 - 1974 about 4 Dercent
/ First registrations of new and imported second-hand vehicles and temporary
registrations.
2/ Includes four wheel drive vehicles.,
3/ The fleet of the Gendarmerie and the Army are excluded.
Source: DNTP, Etude du Parc Automobi:Le du Mali 1966-1974, Juin 1975
November 1975



ILble3
MlALI
THIRJD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumptioni./:  1970e-1974
(in thousands of liters)
1970             1971            1972        1973       1974
GasDline             40,900            43,260          45,350      46,700     4o,88o
Diesel Fuel          18,600            19,370          21,100      23,000     21,900
Total                 59,5o0           62,630          66,4.5o     692700     62,780
Increase in %          n.a               5.3            6.1         4.92/      - 9.9
1/ Does not include untaxed consumption which was 2,800,000 liters of gasoline in thu
lst nine months of 1974.
2/ Average increase of 5.4% per year between 1970 and 1973.
Source:  Statistiques du Commerce Exterieur.
DPW.
November 1975



Table 4
LAI Li
THIRD IIIGHdAY PROJECT
Road user contributions to public revenue in 1971 and 1973
Sources of Revenue        Volume o:r value   Applicable Taxes &   Receipts in
taxed        Duties in   of the   billions of MF
CIF value -
197'1  1973     1971      1973    1971       i 73
Taxes on-Petroleum Products
Fuel:                     (in million liter)  (in MF per liter)   1 .96       2.1 7
Gasoline :                     43.:3  46.7     33.6       33.4     1.45      1.56(
Gas Oil  :                     19.4t 23.0      19.5       19.5     0.38      0.45
Motor Oil:                      2.5   3.1      51.7       52.o     0.13      0.16
Taxes on Equipment &
Spare Parts                  (in billion of MF)                        0.82      1.1(
New & used vehicles
(1855 vehicles in 1971
and 2552 in 1973)               1 .5   2.9      30i/       30/    0o57       0.87
Spare Parts and tires            10CI  0.9       25'/       259     0.25      0.23
Registration (grey card,
driving licence, sticker,
freight tax, patent, etc.                                          0o49       0.53
Total payments by road
users (receipts)                                                        3.27     3.80
Total expenditure for highways                                          3-43     3-l6
Total receipts as 0°  of total expenditure                              95%      120%
Total expenditure as a %
of total revenues                                                    105%      83%
Expenditures for highway maintenance (in billions of HF)                .-70     1.12
Maintenance expenditure as a percent of total receipts                   217     29%
1/ Except when otherwise indicated.
Source:  Mali, DPW, Bureau of Planninj and Control, National Budget and the
National Transport Office
November 1975



Table 5
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditure and Financing:  1970-1974
(in millions of MF)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974
I   Expenditure                    2,231      3,431      6,100     3,9        4363
A.  Current expenditure          778        697       906      1          1,343
Road Maintenance           636       -ho        730        914     1,118
Administration.1/         142        157        176        209        225
B.  Investment expenditure   1,453        2,734     5,194      2,036      3,020
II  Financing                      2,231      3,431      6,100     3,159      4,363
A.  National Sources           1,300      1,557     2,097      2,202      1,995
Road Fund               1,158 2/  1,4oo 2/  1,921        1,993     1,770
of which Investment       (380)     (526)      (856)      (900)      (182)
Other                     142        157        176        209        225
B.  External Sources             931      1,874     4,003        957      2,368
1/ Ineludes 75% of the items "Personnel" and "Matériel" in the National Budget for
DNTP and 100 percent of the "Personnel" item for the HEP (AM) and LNTP (the
National Public Works Laboratory).
Souirce: DPW
November 1975



Table 6
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Expenditures 1974-1978
(in millions of MF)
1974      19-i5         1976         1977          1978
Calendar Year      Actual.   Revisec             Mission's  Projections
Expen-    Budget _           of maintenance needs2
ditures
Current expenditure
including DPW                                                  3/ 
overhead             1,343    1,2400
Equipment renewal
(including spare
parts)                  170      276          600          700           800
1,513    2,1ff)       2,700        3,100         3,600
1/ Estimate based on the Ordonnance of January 30, 1975 which increases
the Road Fund budget to MF 2,340 million.
2/ These projections will be revised on the basis of the results of the
planned Transport Flan Study (para. 3.22)
3/ Includes the Government's share for backlog resurfacing of paved
roads as foreseen in Third Highway Project for 1976 through 1978.
Source: DPW and mission estimates
November 1975



Table 7
Page 1 of 2
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Feeder Roade to be improved, an(i Work Scherjule 1975-7ti
Agricul-     Name of             Lengt,h          n     T
tural        Feeder                              Annual Traffic          Cost of
Region       Roads                 in                                    improvement
in tons       in thousands   in millions of MF
km    1975   1980      of ton-km      net of    incl.
1797751980    1975  1980       taxes      taxes
A. First Brigade (Groundnuts Region)
(a) First Year       150   4470   6100    321    435       165.9      199.6
1975
Kita                               L50   4470   6100    321    435       165.9      199.6
*iambiri-Kouroumikoto   60   27C0   3800    162    228         66.4       79.8
Badingo-Madina          90   1770   2300    159    207        99.5      119.8
(b) Second Year      173  17900  25800    884   1268       191.3      230.3
1976          -       -     
Kolokani                           347  26790  41130   1289   1943       383.8      461.9
*Kolokani-Sirakorola    57   8500  12800    485    730         63.0       75.9
*Massantola-Niokona      55   4700   5800    259    319        60.8       73.2
*Niokona-Faladib         19   2500   3600      48      68      21.0       25.3
*Kolokani-Sobekoro       42   2200   3600      92    151       46.5       55.9
(c) Third Year       174   8890  15330    405    675       192.5      231.6
1977
*Sirakorola-Niamina      71   2600   3800    185    270         78.5      94.5
Faladié-Dralé           46   2100   4000      97    184       50.9       61.2
Banamba-Sacko           31   2785   5000      86    155       34.3       41.3
Madina-Boron            26   1405   2530       37     66      28.8       34.6
(d) Fourth Year      163   8050  12450    330    56        180.3      217.0
Bamako              1978-                                                -
Haute                              163   8050  12450    Do    506        180.3      217.0
Vallée
Dialakorobougo-Tyele   48   2450   3800    118    182         53.1       63.9
*Kangaba-Banankoro       60   2500   3800    150    228        66.4       79.9
Karan-Madina            25   1500   2300      38      58      27.6       33.3
Narena-Karan            18    750   1150       14     21      19.9       23.9
Banankoro-Dioulaforndoul2    850   1400       10      17      13.3       16.0
TOTAL FIRST BRIGADE   660  39310  $9680   1         2884                878.5



Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Agricul-     Name of             Leng-,h
tural        Feeder                             Annual Traffic           Cost of
fegion       Roads                 in                                    improvement
in tons       in thousands   in millions of MF
km                     of ton-km      net of    incl.
1975  1980    1975   1980    taxes       taxes
B. Second Brigade (Cotton Region)
(a) First Year       17I   10300  16600    731   1161    198.0        238.2
1975                                   -   =_  -                --
Dicila                              96    3700   6800    183    348    106.2       127.7
*Dioila-Massigui         30    1700   2800      51      84     33.2       39.9
Massigui-Kouale         66    2000   4000    132    264       73.0       87.8
Fana     -*Nangola-Komankou         8,    6600   9800    548    813       91.8     110.5
(b) Second Year            3       63250      2     78    149.3      179.7
1976                 àd       ==l.
Koulikoro Santiguila-Fegou          21   17150  .44800    3      941      23.2      28.0
Koutiala                           340o  28250  37950    861   1149    376.o       452.5
Bougoukouroula-Konina   22    2600   3450       57      76     24.3       29.3
,>-Konina-Konsegue1a      29    2500   3600      73    104      32.1       38.6
*Konseguela-Koutiala      40    4000   5600    160    224       44.3       53.2
l*rM'Pessoba-Peguena      23    4000   5800      92    133      25.4       30.6
(c) Third Year       171   13350  16900    38      469    189.1       227.6
1977-
*Peguena-Falo             46    2000   2500       92    112     50.9       61.2
*Sirakele-Rte Koutiala    7    4500   5800       32      41      7.7        9.3
Tigui-Sanando            28    2650   3600      74    101      31.0       37.3
>Sirakele-Dieramana       35    2500   3000      88    105      38.7       46.6
!-Karongasso-N'Tokonasso  55    1700   2000       94    110     60.8       73.2
(d) Fourth Year             1800   2600      99    143      60.8       73.2
1978             ~               
*Kaledougou-Narena        55    1800   2600      99    143      60.8       73.2
TOTAL SECOND BRIGADE   540   55700  9935    1952        5     597.2      718.7
TOTAL PROJECT          1200   95010 159030   3        6135   1327.2    1597.2
!m ~        -î  am-                            -iiîi
Roads taken over from the First Highway Project
1/ As the pro(duction figures for the 197L/75 or 1973/74 season were not available for
the roads taken over from the First Hi-ghway Project the estimates of production in
1972/73 has been taken as a basis for projections.         In reality production has
increased little in 1973 and 1974 because of the Sahelian drought.
November 1975



Table 8
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY FROJECT
Feeder Road Design Standards
- Clearing width                 12.0 m to 16.0 m
- Roadway vidth                   4.3 m
- Shoulders                       none
L/
- Laterite base thickness-       13 cm
- Drainage structures            ditches, outlets,
and stone fords
1/ The mission estimated that a laterite base will be required on 840 km
(70%) out of 1,200 km of roads.  Elsewhere, the natural soils will be
used.
Source:   DPW and mission estimates.
November 1975



Table 9
MALI
THIRI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Paved l(oads to be maintained, and Work Schsdule 1976-78
(Length in kilometers)
Single Surface Double Surface
Patching    Resealing & Treatment &        Treatment &      Total
Patching    Patching          Base
1976
- Bamako-Kati             -          13.0          -                                 13
- Bougouni-Sikasso        -         107.0        50.0                 -             157
- Koutiala-Kimparana    59.0                       -                  -              59
- Kiniparana-San         41.0         *            -                  -               l
-  Subtotal             100.0       120.0        50.0                 -             270
19??
- Bougoun±-Sikasso        -          92.0        50.0                2.0            14
- Kout-ala-Bla           41.0        32.0          -                  -              73
- Bla-San                 -          65.0          -                  -              65
- San-Mopti              45.5        26.0          -                25.5             97
-  3Subtotal             86.5       215.0        50.0              27.5             379
1978
-  Bamako-Tienfala        -          30.0          -                  -              30
- Bougouni-Sikasso        -                      13.0                 -
- San-Mopti               -         U5.0           -                  -             115
- Bla-San                 -           -          37.0                 -              37
- Bla-Segou               -          80.0          -                  -              80
- Segou-Markala           -          20.0          -                  -              20
-  Subtotal                -        245.0        50.0                 -             295
Tota                 186.5       580.0       150.0              27.5            9144
source: DFW.
Novemirer 1975



Table 10
MALI
THIRD HIGKWAY PROJECT
Feeder road element:  cost estimates
(in millions of MF)
1        2
Local                        Total   Total           IDA
net of                       net of  with
Taxes       taxes         Foreign         taxes   taxes       Financing
A   of 2   AI!  cf 2        A   of 2    A   of 2    A          A  of 1 of 2
A.Improvement of 1200 km
of feeder roads             270   17    64o   4o        687   43   1,327  83   1 597  1 191  90  75
1. Local staff              T      10                                    3 90     58390  8    8   83  75
2. Equipment rental         101   22       14    3      341   75       355  78       456    341  96  75
3. Fuel                      55   19        9    3      229   78       238  81       293    220  92  75
4. Materials                 37   30        4    3       84   67        88  70       125      88 100  70
5. Overhead                  12   16       30   4o       33   44        63  84        75      56  89  75
B.Preparatiorn of river
banks for ferries            27   20       22   16        86   64      108  80       135    101  94  75
1. Local staff                2   10       17   90       -    -         17  90        19      1h  82  75
2. Equipment rental          17   22        3    4        55   75       58  78        75      56  97  75
3. Fuel                       5   17        1    3       23   78        24  83        29      22  92  75
4. Materials                  2   29       -    -          5   71        5  71         7       5 100  71
5. Overhead                   1   20        1   20         3   60        4  8o         5       4 100  75
C.Procurement
2 ferries                    46   21        6    3      162   76       168  79       214    162  96  76
1. Procurement                     22       6    3      154   75       160  78       204    154  96  75
2. Overhead                   2   20       -    -          8   80        8  80        10       8 100  80
D.Subtotals
A + B + C                   343   18    668   34        935   48   1603  82   1 946  1,454  91 75
1. Local staff              7      10T    6     90       -       gO _6 0             667    500  8375
2. Equipment rental         118   22       17    3      396   75       413  78       531    397  96  75
3. Fuel                      60   19       10    3      252   78       262  81       322    242  92  75
4. Materials                 39   30        4    3       89   67        93  70       132      92  99  70
5. Proc. ferries             44   22        6    3      154   75       160  78       204    154  96  75
6. Overhead                  15   17       31   34       44   49        75  83        90      68  91  75
E.Contingencies for
quantity increase            34   21       67   14       94   65       160  76       194    145  90  75
1. 10% on A                  27  21        64    W       r    U        133  7f       159    119  90  75
2. 10% on B                   3   21        2   14        9   64        10  79        14      10  91  71
3. 15% on C                   4   19        1    5       16   76        16  76        21      16 100  76
F.Contingencies for
price increuses             102   17    211   36        274   47       485  83       587    4    91  75
1. 29% on A + E.1            86   17    204   40        219   43       423  83       509    380  90  75
2. l4% on b + E.2             7   18        6   18       23   64        29  80        36      27  93  77
3. 18% on C + E.3             9   21        1    3       32   76        33  79        42      32  97  76
(..Totals D + E + F        4         18    9h6   34   14303    8   1 248  82   2   7  2 038 2  75
1. A + E.1i + F.1                  17    908   40       975   43   1, 83  83   2,265  1,690  93  75
2. B + E." + F.2             37   20       30   16      118   64       148  80       185    138  93  75
3. C + E.3 + F.3             59   21        8    3      210   76       217  79       277    210  96  75
1/ A = Amount
Source: DNTP and mission estimates
November 1975



Table 11
MAII
THIRD HI3HWAY PROJECT
Backlog Maintenance Element: Cost Estimates
(in millions of MF)
1        2
Iocal                      Total   Total            IDA
net of                     net of  with
Taxes        taxes        Foreie        taxes   taxes         Financing
-r   1yr-  %9                                                      % 
A   of 2    A-  of 2    A    of 2    A   of 2   A             A    of 1 of2
u. Backlog maintenance
of paved roads             187   14    149   il   1,015   75   1.164  86  1,351   1.013  87  75
1. Local staff              1h   12    107   88        -      -       107  88    121         91  85  75
2. Equipment rental         52   22        7    3      180   75       187  78    239       179  96  75
3. Fuel                     23   20        3    3       86   77        89  80    112         84  94  75
4. Materials                90   il      25    3       699   86       724  89    814       610  84  75
5. Overhead                  8   13        7   11       50   76        57  87      65        49  86  75
. Procurement of
spare parts                 50   22        6    3      167   75       173  78    223       167  96  75
1. Procurement              t7   22       T    3       159   75       165  78    213       159  96  75
2. Overhead                  3   25       -     _        8   75         8  75      10         8 100  75
Subtotal without
contingencies              237   15    155   10         8     L       337  85  1L574   1 180  88  15
. Contingencies for
quantity increase           35   15      24   10       177   75       201  85    236       177  88  75
1. 15% on A                 28  I1        23   11      152   75       175 86    203        152  87  75
2. 1.5% on B                 7   21        1    3       25   76        26  79       33       25  96  75
Ccntingencies for
price increase             100   14      73   10       525   75       598  86    698       524  94  81
1. 42% on A + D.1           90iv         72   i1       40   75        568                    89 9     81
2. 18% on B + D.2           10   22        1    2       35   76        36  78       46       35  97  76
F. Totals                     372             2   10   1 884             136L    2509   1881  L8
1. Backlog maintenance
A + D.1 + E.1           305   14    244   il   1,657   75   1,901  86  2,207   1,654  87  75
2. Spare parts
B + D.2 + E.2            67   22       8    3       227   75       235  78    302       227  97  75
1/ A = Amount
November 1975



Table 12
MALi
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Center Element: Cost Estimates
(in millions of MF)
Local                   Total       Total
Net of                   net of    With         IDA
Taxes       Taxes      Foreign        Taxes      Taxes   Financing
A   of 2  A'/  of  2   A   of  2   A   of 1    A    A   of 2  of 2
A. Procurement of:
1.  Office equipment          2.0   18   3.0   27   6.0    55    9.0   82   11.0  8.3   92    75
2.  Teaching materials        5.0   21   1.0    4  18.0    75   19.0   79   24.0 18.0   95    75
3.  Vehicles                  3.0   30    -       -   7.0    70    7.0   70   10.0  7.0  100    70
4.  Subtotal without
contingencies           10.0   22   4.0    9  31.0    67   35.0   78   45.0 33.3   95    74
B. Contingencies for
quantity increase
1.10% on A.4                1.0   22   0.4    9   3.1    69    3.5   78    4.5  3.3   94    73
C. Subtotal
1. A.4 + B.l               11.0   22   4.4    9  34.1    69   38.5   78   49.5 36.6   95    74
D. Contingencies for
price increase
1.  28% on C.1              3.0   22   1.2    9   9.5    69   10.8   78   13.9 10.2   94    73
E. Totals
>.1 + D.1                 14.0   22   5.6    9  43.6    69   49.3   78   63.4 96.8   95    74
=  = =  -    = _   ====
- A = Amount
N-vember 1975



Table 13
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultants services: Cost estimates
(in millions of MF)
1       2
L]ocal                     Total   Total           IDA
net of                     net of  with
Taxes       taxes         Foreig       taxes   taxes       Financing
A   of 2   A2:.' of 2      A   of 2   A    of 2   A          A   of 1 of 2
A. Technical Assistance
to DPW                     53   16    47    L4        235   70   282    84   335    251   89   75
1. Peeder roads             TF 16       Ù    114          20    70        8 T   28      21   88   75
2. Maintenance             28   16    25    14        124   70   149    84   177    133   89   75
3. Training center         21   16    18    14         91   70   109    84   130        97   89   75
B. Study transp. plan          32   16    28    14       138   70   166    84   198    149   90   75
C. Subtotal without
cont-ingencies             85   16    75    14        373   10   448    84   L3    400   a    75
D. Cont-ngencies for
quantity increases          8   15      8    15        38   70    46    85        4     41   89   75
1. 10% on A                 5  15                      2    70    29    85    3             9075
2. 10% on B                 3   15       3    15       14   70    17    85    20        15   88   75
E. Subtotal with quantity
contingency                93   16    83    14        411   70   249    84   587    441            75
1. Technical assistance  58    6     52               259   70   311                   277   89   75
2. Study                   35   16    31    14        152   70   183    84   218    164   89   75
F. Contingencies for
rice increase             19   16    16    15         82   70    98    84   117        88    9   75
1. 20% on E.1              12 W 1      10    1         52   70                          55   89   75
2. 20% on E.2               7   15      6    15        30   70    36    85    43        33   89   76
G. Totals (E + F)            112   16    9       14      4      70   592    84   704    529   89   75
1. Technical assistance  70   16    62    l4          311   70   373    84   4r3    332   89   75
2. Study transp. plan    42   16    37    14          182   70   219    84   261    197   89   75
1/ A = Amount
N(vember 1975



M/ALT
TXIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Synthesis of cost estimates, with proposed financing
in millions of MF                                 in thousands of US$                 IDA
in %
Total                                            Total        of total
Taxes   Govt.      IDA      net of    inc.    Taxes    Govt.         IDA       net of incl. net of incl.
taxes     taxes                                   taxes  taxes taxes  taxes
(1) Feeder road element   343      149      1,454      1,603     1,946      762       331     3,231      3,562   4,324   90  75
(2) Backlog maintenance   237      157      1,180      1,337     1,574      527       349     2,622      2,971   3,498   88  75
(3) Training center i/      10        2        33         35        45       22         5        73         78      lo0  94  73
(4) Technical assistance   85       48        600        448       533      189      107        889        996   1,185   89  75
A. Subtotal               675      356     3,067      3,423     4,096   1,500        792   6,815        7,607   9,107   90  75
B. Contingencies for
quantity increase       78      45        366        411       489      173       100       813        913   1,086   89  75
C. Contingencies fo
price increase 2.      224     131      1,061      1,192     1,416      498       291     2,358      2,649   3,147   89  75
D. TOTAL                  L77      532     4,494      5 026     6 003   2,171    1 182       9,987    11,169  13,340   89  75
E. Rounded                                                               2,200    1,200    10,000    11,200  13,400   89  75
1/ Not including technical assistance for training center (see item (4))
2/ Price contingencies have been calculated according to CPS guidelines.
Source: Tables 10-13
November 1975
H-



Table 15
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule, 1976-1979
(in thousands of US$)
IDA
Fiscal Year                                                   Percent
and                                           Amount           otf
Semesters                                                      total
1976
lst
2nd                                        2,000            20
1977
* st                                       3,900            39
2nd                                        5,600            56
1978
lst                                        7,100            71
2nd                                        8,4oo            84
1979
lst                                        9,500            95
2nd                                       10,000          100
1/  An average 3-month delay between the completion of lhilled work and
ehe relative disbursement has been taken into accour.t in projecting
thi s schedule.
Source: Mission estimates
November 1975



Table 16
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Feeder Roads to be I>proved
Summary Execution Scheckile for Economic Analysis
Length              Volume of traffic
in                  in thousands
im                    of ton/km
1975         1980
a)  First Year (1975)            329                1052         1296
First Unit                 150                321.         hi35
Second Unit                179                 731         1161
b)  Second Year (1976)           308                1626         2746
First Unit                 173                 8)l        1 268
Second Unit                135                742          14T5
c) Third Year (1977)             345                 785         1144
First Unit                 174                4°5           675
Second Unit                171                 380          469
d)  Fourth Year (1978)           21 8                429          649
First Unit                 163                330           ,O6
Second Unit                 55                 99           1';3
TOTAL                  1200               3892          6135-
Source: Table 7
1/ Rate of increase about 9.5 percent (1h percent on BCE014 roads and
7 percent on others).
February 1975



Table 17
MJLI
THIRD HIGIIWAY PROJECT
Feeder Roads: Cost and Benefit Streams
(:in millions of MF)
C O S T Si/
Year                                          Maintenance                 BenefitsY
Improvement    Ferries       Reguar          Periodic
1.106 per km                  .025 per km  0.31 perkm
1975           363.9         -              -
1976          340.6        233.1            8.2             -                75.5
1977           381.6        53.9           16.0             _               202.8
1978           241.1         -             24.6             _              280.1
1979            -            -             30.0             -              337.1
1980            -            -             30.0                            366.3
1981            -            -             21.8          102.2             393.6
1982             -           -             22.3            95.5            415.5
1983             -           -             21.4          107.0             437.1
1984            -            -             24.6            67.6            459.0
1985             -           -             30.0             -              481.9
1986            -            -             30.0             -              506.0
1987             -           -             21.8             -              385.4
1958             -           -             14.0             -              153.5
1989            -            -              5.4             -               56.5
3ource:  Mission estimates and BCEOM, République du Mali, Etude d'Aménagement de
Pistes Agricoles, Programme complementaire, Actualisation au 15 juin 1974.
1/  Include quantity contingencies for ferries, but not for feeder roads.  Do not
include price contingencies.
2/  Based on estimated savings of MF615 per ton km of commercialized agricultural
production at December 1974 prices and assuming (1) that trucks are filled
5096 on non-improved tracks and 600)* on improved feeder roads; (2) that one
way of the trip is done empty, except for a 596 load factor with consumption
goods.
November 1975



Table 18
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Internal rate of return and sensitivity of the feeder road component
(in percent)
Variations       Internal
rate of return
A.  Mission estimates                                 i6.75
B. Sensitivity analYsis
Costs                       + 10                14.15
+ 15               12.95
+ 20                il. 5
Benefits                    - 10                13.85
-15                 12.35
- 20                10.85
- 25                 9.25
Source:  Computer runs made by mission



Table 19
MALI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs per km not including Taxes
(in Malian francs)
1/
Class of Road                        Passenger Car     Average Truck
Well maintained paved road                     45                 11h
Paved road which needs patching                49                 132
Paved road which needs resealing               53                 140
Paved road which needs resurfacing             55                 142
Improved feeder road                           n.a.               201
Paved road which needs reconstruction         100                 287
or on unimproved earth track
Source:  Republique du Mali, Minist,ère du Developpement Industriel, Directio)
Nationale des Travaux Publics, Etude d'Aménagement des Pistes Agric les:
Programme Complémentaire - Actualisation au 15 juin 1974, BCEDM, p
and mission estimates.
1/ 6 and 10-ton trucks are the most coumonky used.
February 1975



MALI
THIlD HIGHWAY P1iDJECT
Backlog Maintenance element: Cost and benefit streamsL/
(in millions of MF)
C 0 S T S                                             B E N E F I T S
Year                                      Maintenance        Reconstruction   Resurfacing   Resealing.  Patching
Reconstruction RFerfacing Resealing Patching
1975           -             81.1      115.5      19.4            -              22.9          44.1        45.6
1976         215.1           81.1      206.9       41.5           -              71.5         285.8        40.8
1977           -             81.1      206.9       58.0         149.1           124.0         312.8         -
1978           -             7.4       206.0       73.4         155.1           177.4         543.2         -
1979           -               -          -        70.3         161.3           208.1         656.2         -
1980                   -                 -         70.3         167.7           216.4         682.4         -
1981           -               -         -         54.1         174.4           167.1         599.0         -
1982           _             44.6        -         31.4         181.4           113.4         415.0         -
1983           -               -         -        15.5          188.7            55.2         215.3         -
1984           -               -          -         1.7         196.2              -            -           -
1985           -               -          -         1.7         204.0              -            -           -
1986           -               -         -          1.7         212.2              -            -           -
1987           _-                        -          1.7         220.7                           -           -
1988           -             44.6        -          1.7         229.5              -            -           -
1989           -               -          -         1.7         238.7              -            _
1990           _-                         -         1.7         248.3              -            -           -
1991           -               -          -         1.7         258.2              _-                       -
1992           -               -          -         1.7         268.5              _-                       -
1993           -               -          -         1.7         279.3              -            -           -
1994           -             44.6         -         1.7         290.4              -            -           -
1995           -               -         -          1.7         302.0             _-                        -
1996           -               -          -         1.7         314.1              _            _
1997           -               -          -         1.7         326.7                    -         _
1998           -               -          -         1.7         339.8              _            _           _
1999           -                         -          1.7         353.3                           -           -
oe
I/ Based on 914 km. Does not include the extrta 30 km (Bamako-Tienfala) added at negotiations.
S2urce:  Mission estimates
November 1975






G.0_lL                                   i ii -  4-qi   lE  ;3Affftc1 ca  
S: o                                t t0                                         >0=Z`::.L:":";S=,u!=S,  ---'f
--r  :rr0f' -
0~~~~~~-                   w'               -`i _'o.V1\  <  ,AV
.~~~~ ~~~~ X                                                                 'p tf0X=0  ;  40qg 
If                                                      /0/fN\~~~~~~~~  0A -I   3
<-------
0~~~~~~~~~~~~               \yo                 0  o 00 ;X        ~<Z`X  ~~~~`        7 
cn                 C =
°-          J   O       O-              e,
>c   ):                         Q.



