CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 599 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 599 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "First Highway   Project"  means the Project described   in the
Development Credit Agreement No. 197-MLI dated June 17, 1970, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "Second Highway Project" means the Project described in the
Development Credit Agreement No. 383-MLI dated May 23, 1973, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(c)   "Directorate" means the National Directorate of Public Works of the
Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Public Works;
(d)   "Office" means the National Transport Office of the Borrower's
Ministry of Transport and Public Works; and
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to under Section 3.06
of this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0.1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower not exceeding $500,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower
for payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount On deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $500,000.
(c)   Nothwithstanding the foregoing no further deposit shall be made to
the Special Account and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit
Account when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, together with the amount of
any special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of
$9,500,000.
(d)   The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $9,500,000, it' and only to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all payments were made by the Borrower out of
the Special Account for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the Credit
Account.


﻿5
(e)   If the Association shall have determined that payments have been made
by the Borrower out of the Special Account for expenditures not eligible for
withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the
Association, deposit in the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of
such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I ',) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on cach June I and December 1 commencing
.11.une 1, 1986, and eniding December 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on Deceiber 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1j2
of Ii) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent ( 1-1 '2'; ) of such principal amount.
Section 2,08, The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of' the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, 13 and C of the Project
through the Directorate and Part ) of' the Project through the Office, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity witi appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and for
such approximate periods of time as is provided by Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended -om time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents, and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) During the carrying out of the study referred to under
Part D of the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views on the interim results of said study.
(b)   The Borrower shall, on the basis of the abovementioned interim results
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 4.03 of this
Agreement, promptly prepare, in consultation with tlhe Association, a medium-term
physical and financial plan for maintenance of its road network, including the
renewal of necessary equipment.


﻿7
(c)   For the purpose of preparing the financing plan referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and as an initial step towards performance budgeting, the
Borrower shall establish or cause to be established within the accounting system
of the Directorate bookkeeping arrangements which shall adequately reflect the
accounts of its road maintenance operations with respect to the different categories
of roads covered by said operations.
(d)   After determination of the financing plan referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Borrower shall review with the Association its priorities for
new road investments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of execution of the Project,
open a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
in a bank located in the territory of the Borrower and acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
the proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause its road network and its road
maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary
repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
and economic standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
(b)   Without limitation on Section 3.01 of this Agreement and paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that the annual budgetary allocations
of the Directorate shall be adequate to provide funds sufficient for the current
operations of the Directorate. Such budgetary allocations shall include specific
provisions for the operations of each one of the divisions of the Directorate. The


﻿8
provision for the renewal of road maintenance equipment shall be separately stated
and shall be readjusted annually to the extent required to cover the full costs
of current renewals of such equipment.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that its Road Fund, held in the Banque
de Developpement du Mali, will at all times be managed pursuant to Ordonnance
No. 5/CMLN of June 4, 1971; that such Fund will be utilized only for the purposes
described in such Ordonnance; that the annual budgetary allocations to such Fund
shall be sufficient to cover the expenditures referred to in Article 3 of such
Ordonnance; and that the credits to such account provided for in Article 2 of
such Ordonnance shall be promptly made in order to ensure the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Road Fund.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
meet all road maintenance requirements out of the Road Fund resources before
allocating funds for new road construction works.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the
dimensions and axleloads of vehicles using the Borrower's road system are consistent
with the structural and geometric design standards of the roads used.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date April 9 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿9
For the Borrower:
Ministbre des Finances et du Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                               Telex:
MINIFINANCES                                 972-559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                               Telex:
INDEVAS                                      440098 or
Washington, D.C.                             248423
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By   /s / Mamadou Boubacar Kante
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             9o of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Agricultural
feeder roads
betterment
including:
(a)   operating costs           3,000,000          75%
of brigades
(wages and sal-
aries of local
staff, equip-
ment rental ex-
cluding amorti-
zation, supplies,
materials and
overhead); and
(b)   procurement of             400,000           75%
two ferries
(2)   Road maintenance
including:
(a)   execution of              2,300,000          75%
backlog main-
tenance works
on bituminous
roads, namely,
operating costs
of brigades
(wages and sal-
aries of local
staff, equip-
ment rental ex-
cluding amorti-
zation, supplies,
and materials and
overhead); and


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %o of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   procurement of             400,000          75%
spare parts and
equipment for
workshops
(3)  Centre de Perfectionne-
inent of the Directorate
in Bamako:
(a)   Equipment                   60,000          75%
and supplies
(b)   Vehicles                    20,000          75%
(4)  Consultants'                     700,000          75%
services
relating to
Parts A, B.1
and C of the
Project
(5)  Transport                        400,000          75%
Plan study
(6)   Unallocated                   2,720,000
TOTAL         10,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect


﻿12
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)   in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4) above on account
of expenditures incurred after January 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,100,000; and
(b)   under Categories (1)(a) and (2)(a) above until the Association shall
have approved the particular expenses to be financed pursuant to the request for
withdrawal which shall contain a detailed description of the expenditures incurred
and the corresponding work done.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:    The betterment of about 1,200 km of agricultural feeder roads in
groundnut and cotton-growing areas under a three and one half year
Program of Feeder-road Betterment (1975-1978), to continue and
expand the program initiated under the First Highway Project. The
details of the Program shall be as set forth in Exhibit 1, and the general
design standards applicable thereto shall be as set forth in Exhibit lI',
to this Schedule, as such Exhibits may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:    1.    Execution of backlog maintenance works on about 944 km of
bituminous roads under a three year Program (1976-1978). The
details of the Program shall be as set forth in Exhibit III to
this Schedule, as such Exhibit may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
2.   Strengthening of the maintenance capacity of the Directorate
by increasing the spare parts stock of its Highway Equipment
Pool and by equipping two new subdivision workshops.
Part C:    Assistance  in  the  operation  of the  Directorate's Centre de
Perfectionnement being established at Bamako under the Second
Highway Project, including:
1.   Procurement of office equipment, teaching materials and
vehicles; and
2.   Preparation of a training program and training of teaching staff.
Part D:    Study of a country wide transport plan including the provision of
related services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿14
EXHIBIT I TO SCHEDULE 2
Agricultural feeder roads included in
Part A of the Project
Agricultural
Feeder Road                      Length in Kilometers
A.   Groundnut-growing
Areas
Kita                      Mambiri-Kourouninkoto                    60
Badingo-Madina                          90
Kolokani                  Kolokani-Sirakorola                     57
Massantola-Niokona                      55
Niokona-Faladie                         19
Kolokani-Sebekoro                       42
Kirakorola-Niamina                      71
Faladie-Drale                           46
Banamba-Madina-Sako                     31
Madina-Sako-Boron                       26
Bamako Haute
Vall6e                    Dialakorobougou-Tydld                   48
Kangaba-Banankoro                       60
Karan-Madina                            25
Narena-Karan                            18
Banankoro-Dioulafoundou                 12
B.   Cotton-growing
Areas
Dioila                    Dioila-Massigui                         30
Massigui-Kouale                         66
Fana                      Nangola-Komankou                        83
Koulikoro                 Santiguila-Fegou                        21
Koutiala                  Bougoukouroula-Konina                   22
Konina-Konseguela                       29
Konseguela-Koutiala                     40
M'Pessoba-Peguena                       23
Peguena-Falo                            46
Sirakele-Rte Koutiala                    7
Tigui-Sanando                           28
Sirakele-Dieraniana                      35
Karangasso-N'Tokonasso                  55
Kaledougou-Narena                       55
TOTAL       1,200


﻿15
EXHIBIT II TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for the Agricultural Feeder Roads
Included in Part A of the Project
Clearing Width                                         12 to 16 m
Roadway Width                                           4.3 m
Shoulders                                             none
Laterite base thickness*                               13 cm
Drainage Structure                                    ditches, outlets
and stone fords
*    Estimated to be required on total length of not more than about 840 km.


﻿16
EXHIBIT III TO SCHEDULE 2
Bituminous Roads to be Maintained
Under Part B of the Project and Type of Works
(length in kil-meters)
Patching and        Reconstruction
Patching and    Single-Surface           into
Roads                Patching          Resealing       Treatment          Double-Surface
Bamako-Kati              -               13.0              -
Bamako-ifienfala         -               30.0              -
Bla-San                  -               65.0             37.0
Bla-Segou                -               80.0               -
Bougouni-Sikasso         -              199.0             113.0                 2.0
Kimparana-San           41.0
Koutiala-Bla            41.0             32.0               -
Koutiala-Kimparana      59.0             -
San-Mopti                45.5           141.0               -                  25.5
Segou-Markala            -               20.0               -
Total             186.5            580.0            150.0                 27.5


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Services of Consultants
1.   About 52 man-months to assist the Directorate in the carrying out of Parts
A and B of the Project;
2.    About 33 man-months to assist the Directorate in the carrying out of Part
C.2 of the Project; and
3.    About 50 man-months to assist the Office in carrying out Part D of the
Project.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    Procurement Procedures
1.    One contract for the ferries will be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
the Association.
2.    Contracts for fuel, bitumen and cement may be let on the basis of the
Borrower's standard procurement practices for such supplies, provided that said
procedures shall continue to be acceptable to the Association.
3.    Spare parts and vehicles may be procured locally from licensed dealers.
4.    Other items may be procured through comparative local shopping.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    With respect to the contract for ferries:
(a)   Prior to the award of such contract, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(b)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(c)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to


﻿19
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and referred to in paragraph 2 of Part A hereof, whenever a change occurs
in the procurement procedures applicable thereto, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Association thereof and submit such changes to the Association for
review and approval,


