Report No. 635-JO
Appraisal of an
Education Project in the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
February 10, 1975
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for officiaJ use orly by the Bank Group. It may ~not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =          Jordanian Ding  (JD) -'315
JD 1.000                   US$ 3.175
MEASURES
1 m2           =        10.764 sq. ft.
1 kM2          0= 0.38 sq. mille
1 hectare       =       2.)47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....          ................    i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......          .........................        1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND ..........................                  2
Physical Environment and Population           .........        2
Economic Development ...................                       2
Economic Development Strategy ...............                  3
Employment Opportunities and Manpower
Requirements .....................                          3
III.    THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR                  6
The Present System ...................                         6
Educational Issues ...................                         8
Educational Development Strategy ............                  9
Education Finance ......       .....................         10
IV.   THE PROJECT .......        ..........................         11
Objectives ........       .........................           11
Irbid Polytechnic ............. .. ............              12
Aqaba Trade Training Complex ........ ........                13
Hotel Training School ........... .. ..........               14
Rural Development Center .......... ..........                15
Comprehensive Schools .....        ..................         16
Workshops and Laboratories ......... .........                17
Educational Buildings Survey ........ ........                18
Technical Assistance ............ ............                18
Project Administration ........... ...........                18
Project Evaluation System ..................       .          18
Cost Estimates ................. .............                19
Financial Plan           .............    20
Implementation    ,           ........                        21
Disbursements ..         ............................         22
V.   BENEFITS ........         ............................        23
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......                  24



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. The Education and Training System
3. Projected Manpower Requirements 1973-1985
4. Projected Manpower Requirements in the Hotel Industry 1974-1985
5. Enrollment, Graduates and Teachers by Level and Type of
Education 1972-1973
6. Actual and Projected Enrollments 1973-1985
7. Total Educational Expenditures by Sources 1968-1973
8. Ministry of Education Recurrent and Capital Expenditures by
Educational Levels and Nature of Expense, 1973
9. Projection of Public Expenditures on Education 1973-1985
10. Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in
Project Institutions
11. Curricula for Project Institutions
12. Schedule of Technical Assistance
13. Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
14. Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
15. Contingency Allowances
16. Financial Plan
17. Project Implementation Schedule
18. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP
IBRD 11173



GLOSSARY
COMPULSORY CYCLE                     Includes both elementary(grades 1 through 6)
and preparatory education(grades 7 through 9).
PREPARATORY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE       Examination administered at the end of the
EXAMINATION                          compulsory cycle, the main objective being
the selection of the students entitled to
further education at the secondary level.
COMPREIENSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOL       A secondary school extending over grades
10-12 and providing several specialized
streams with a common core of academic
and pre-vocational programs for all
students.
DOUBLE-SHIFT SYSTEM                  Use of the same educational facility by
two groups of students, one group in the
morning and the other in the afternoon.
DAY RELEASE PROGRAM                  Cooperative part-time training under which
trainees are released from employment to
attend formal instruction for a given
number of hours per week (e.g., one day
per week).
MODULAR TRAINING                     Method of training by which instruction
is organized in self-contained blocks of
training (modules), each of which is in-
tended to build up one of the specific
skills normally required in a given
occupation. The method aims at improving
trainees' employability at different
stages of their training, thus minimizing
the wastage of training efforts normally
associated with early drop out.
NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING         An advisory body composed of representa-
COUNCIL                              tives of government agencies concerned
with vocational training as well as
industrial and workers' organizations,
and responsible for advising the govern-
ment on matters related to vocational and
technical education, apprenticeship and
in-plant training.
UNRWA                                United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestinian refugees. The Agency inter alia
operates elementary and preparatory schools,
teacher training institutes, and a voca-
tional training center, and provides
scholarships or subsidies for students
admitted into government secondary schools.



- ii -
JORDAN VALLEY COMMISSION              An autonomous public agency responsible
for the planning, design and execution
of development projects in the Jordan
Valley.



JORDAN
BASIC DATA (1973)1/
Total Population                                       1,831,000
of which: Palestinian Refugees living in camps           229,000
Current Rate of Population Growth                        3.3% p.a.
Per capita GNP (1972)                                   about US$270
Literacy Rate (1972)                                   59%o
Elementary School Enrollment
as a Percentage of Age Group 6-11                     1o4%
Preparatory School Enrollment
as a Percentage of Age Group 12-14                     63%
Secondary School Enrollment as
a Percentage of Age Group 15-17                        31%
Higher Education Enrollment as
a Percentage of Age Group 18-21                        27%
of which: Studying in Jordan                             5%
Central Government Expenditures
on Education as a Percentage of
Total Central Government Expenditures                   7.1%
Central Government Expenditures
on Education as a Percentage of GDP                      5.0%
See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system. Unless
otherwise indicated, all statistical data in this report refer to
the East Bank only.
S/ Including overaged students.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        As a result of a consistent policy of educational expansion over
the past two decades, the formal education system in Jordan is quantitatively
well developed. About 92% of the 6-11 year age group are enrolled in
elementary education, while enrollment ratios are 63% in preparatory schools,
31% in secondary education and 27% in higher education - the latter being
one of the highest percentages of enrollment in the world. In spite of some
differences between regions, the system is quite egalitarian both geographic-
ally, by sexes and in terms of probability for individual students to reach
the highest levels of education.
ii.       As in many other countries, however, the rapid growth of the edu-
cation system has led to or has aggravated structural imbalances and bottle-
necks, which adversely affect its cost/effectiveness in terms of both quality
and relevance of education. Among the major issues are the over-expansion
of academically-oriented general secondary education, the under-development
of vocational and technical education, the insufficient emphasis on adult
training and retraining, and the slow adaptation of curricula to the changing
needs of the society. A peculiar feature of the system, which has negative
repercussions on both the quality and the cost of education, is the very
high percentage of rented premises - in most cases uneconomically small and
totally unsuitable for educational purposes.
iii.      These shortcomings are recognized by the educational authorities
of the country, and steps are being taken within the framework of the Educa-
tional Plan 1970-1980 to correct them. The first education project (Credit
285-JO), approved in January 1972, is assisting in implementing the Plan ob-
jectives by increasing the supply of qualified elementary and preparatory
school teachers, reorienting general secondary education through the intro-
duction of comprehensive schools, and increasing the output of middle-level
technicians and skilled workers. A second credit of US$6.0 million is now
proposed which would reinforce the system of comprehensive and technical
education being promoted by the first credit, and extend the reform to special-
izations and types of education not included in the first project, such as
farmer training or the training of personnel for the hotel industry.
iv.       The proposed project would include:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of:
-    irbid Polytechnic;
-    Aqaba Trade Training Complex;
-    Hotel Training School in Amman;
-    Ghor Rural Development Center;
-    Three comprehensive secondary schools;
-    Extensions to 16 preparatory and secondary schools
(science laboratories; pre-vocational workshops for
boys; craft workshops for girls); and
(b) related technical assistance.



- ii -
v.        The Project Implementation Unit, established under the first proj-
ect and further reinforced, would also be responsible for the implementation
of the second project. A special allowance compensating for the lack of
competitiveness of present salary scales in the civil service would 'be paid
to the personnel of the Unit and financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
vi.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment for all project
institutions, except the proposed extensions and the items included in the
miscellaneous category for each institution, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Association's
guidelines. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local manu-
facturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports
or 15% of the c.i.f. price whichever is lower. Bid comparison would be made
in accordance with the Association's guidelines on the application of domestic
preferences in bid evaluation.
vii.      Competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, would be used for the procurement
of furniture for the proposed extensions as well as for their construction,
where the estimated value of each construction contract would not exceed
US$100,000. Given the wide geographical dispersion and the small cost in-
volved, international competitive bidding would not be practical. S:Lmilarly,
local competitive bidding would be used for furniture and equipment :Ltems
costing less than US$2,000, which are to be included in one miscellaneous
category not exceeding US$50,000 for each institution.
viii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$17.5 million, wiith a
foreign exchange component of US$11.2 million. The project is suitable as
a basis for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million to the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In February, 1972, IDA extended its first credit for an education
project in Jordan (Credit 285-JO). The project was designed to help increase
the supply of qualified elementary and preparatory school teachers (including
practical subject teachers), support the policy of introducing practical
subjects into general secondary schools to transform them into comprehensive
schools, and increase the output of middle-level technicians and skilled
workers. Accordingly, the credit (US$5.4 million) is assisting in the fi-
nancing of: (i) a Polytechnic and Trade Training Center at Marka; (ii) two
comprehensive secondary schools in Amman; (iii) a Teacher Training Institute
at Salt and an Agricultural Teacher Training Center in the Agricultural
School at Shaubak; and (iv) related technical assistance. After some initial
delays in the preparation of architectural designs and in the recruitment of
foreign experts, project implementation is now progressing well, but is approxi-
mately 8 months behind the original implementation schedule.
1.02      The proposed second education project would reinforce the pattern
of comprehensive and technical education being financed under the first
Credit and extend the reform to specializations and types of education not
included in the first project. The project was identified by a Unesco mis-
sion, which visited Jordan in April and May, 1973, and by an IDA reconnais-
sance mission, which discussed the Unesco findings with the government and
agreed on a tentative project composition in March, 1974. Following the
government's request, an IDA mission consisting of Messrs. A. de Capitani
(economist, mission leader), K. Andersen, (architect, Unesco), H. Baritsch
(technical educator, Unesco), A.S. Kinawy (architect), B.L. Masters (general
educator), S.A. Naqvi (tourism training specialist, Unesco) and J. Weatherhogg
(agricultural educator, consultant) visited Jordan in May and June, 1974
to assist the government in the preparation of the project and to appraise
the project.
1.03      The proposed project was slightly modified during appraisal, in
agreement with the government. One comprehensive school was deleted and
another was added after reviewing regional priorities in the distribution of
new schools; tne proposed location of the Hotel Training School was changed
in accordance with the government's new plans for the development of the
hotel industry; the distribution of the proposed extensions to 16 preparatory
and secondary schools was modified after detailed comparative analysis of some
50 school buildings selected by the government; the program of technical
assistance was reinforced and extended to cover a proposed education buildings
survey; and a number of suggestions were discussed with the government to
improve the relevance of curricula, increase educational efficiency and re-
duce unit capital costs in the proposed schools.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is situated in the arid zone of
the Middle East, bordering on Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Israel and having
Aqaba as its only seaport. With the exception of the low-lying lands in the
Ghor, the Irbid region and some limited areas in the highlands whlere ground-
water is available, climatic and soil conditions are not generally favorable
for intensive agriculture. The country covers some 98,000 km2, of which
about 6,000 km2 lie on the West Bank of the Jordan River now under Israeli
occupation.
2.02      Population in the East Bank is estimated at about 1.8 million, of
which about 229,000 are Palestinian refugees living in camps and 90,000 are
nomadic Bedouin tribes, and is growing at the high rate of 3.3% p.a. About
60% of the total population is below the age of 21 and about 41% of adults
are illiterate. As a result of rapid urbanization, the percentage of rural
population has dropped from about 40% in 1961 to less than 30% in 1973,
although this trend has slowed down somewhat in recent years due to the
resettlement schemes in the Jordan Valley. The employed labor force repre-
sents only 20% of the total population with very low participation rates of
women.
Economic Development
2.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, accounting
for about a sixth of GDP, 30% of total employment and nearly one third of
commodity exports (of which about 75% is produced in the Jordan Valley).
Limited water supply, fragmentation of holdings and slow progress in the
application of new production technologies are among the main constraints.
However, a potential exists for expanded output of export crops (in particular
off-season fruits and vegetables), which could help narrow the large trade
deficit in agricultural commodities (at present, about $90 million a year).
One of the pre-conditions for realizing these potentialities will be the
upgrading of farmers' education to cope with the technical and managerial
requirement of non-traditional agriculture.
2.04      The manufacturing and m4ning sector in Jordan is quite small,
accounting for about 12% of GDP and 7% of employment, but has been by far
the most dynamic sector of the economy in recent years. The manufacturing
sector comprises a large number of small artisan-type enterprises, but it
is dominated by a few relatively large companies which enjoy strong govern-
ment support. Cement, food processing, textiles and apparel, petroleum
refining, cigarettes,5 wet batteries, leather products and paperboard are the
most significant industrial product groups. The small size of the domestic
market, the limited range of raw materials available in Jordan, the high
transportation costs associated with the almost land-locked posit:Lon of the
country and the scarcity of specialized technical skills represent: common
constraints for most industrial activities.



-3-
2.05      Even after the loss of the traditional tourism routes in the Holy
Land, Jordan was left with a good potential for tourism development, includ-
ing outstanding archeological monuments, varied landscapes, favorable climatic
conditions and the attractive Red Sea shoreline in the Gulf of Aqaba. Since
1971 foreign exchange earnings from foreign travel have been increasing at
about 25% p.a. and now stand at over $30 million per year. In spite of the
potentially vital role of the hotel and catering industry in the process
of economic development, no institution is presently available in Jordan for
the training of hotel personnel.
Economic Development Strategy
2.06      The main long-term objectives of the Three Year Plan 1973-1975 are
to:
(i) increase employment opportunities in order to maintain low
unemployment rates and reduce under-employment;
(ii) achieve an 8% annual growth rate of GDP with priority on
production sectors such as agriculture, mining and manu-
facturing;
(iii) improve the distribution of economic gains among the different
regions and population groups, mainly through rural development
programs, improved public housing and other social services;
and
(iv) eliminate the economy's heavy dependence on foreign budget
support by reducing the budget and trade deficits through
expansion of domestic revenues and foreign exchange earnings.
2.07      Industrial policy aims at increasing substantially the production
of Jordan's high quality phosphate rock (from about 1 million tons in 1973
to 8 million by 1980), exploiting the country's deposits of potash and
copper, developing fertilizer production, and reinforcing the industrial
base by diversifying manufacturing activities and making them more competitive
and export-oriented. A number of relatively large industrial projects have
been licensed in the past two years or are in advanced stages of preparation,
including a ceramics plant, a textile mill, expansion of the existing cement
plant, a sheet glass mill, a second detergent plant and a new petroleum
refinery. Three large mining projects (phosphate, potash and copper), a
phosphatic fertilizer project and related port and railway development are
also envisaged for the Aqaba region.
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements (Annexes 3 and 4)
2.08      The functioning of the labor market in Jordan is heavily conditioned
by increasing labor shortages in the neighboring countries, particularly
the Gulf States, which can offer salaries between four and five times higher
than those in Jordan. Since there are no linguistic or other barriers



- 4 -
against emigration, 1/ the outflow of manpower has greatly increased in re-
cent years. 2/ As a result, the rate of open unemployment has decreased
sharply from over 8% in 1970 to less than 4% in 1973. On the other hand,
emigration has aggravated domestic shortages of skilled workers, wrhich has
resulted in rapid increase in wage rates. At present, the number of
Jordanians working abroad is estimated at 250-300,000; in 1973 their remit-
tances amounted to about US$46 million.
2.09      Projections of manpower requirements and training needs in Jordan
are made difficult by the lack of data and the uneven quality of available
information. 3/ Moreover, structural changes in production processes and
the small size of the economy add to the instability of occupational co-
efficients. Finally, the future amount and skill composition of outward
migration are uncertain. With these limitations, manpower projections can
indicate only broad orders of magnitude and should be interpreted with cau-
tion.
2.10      A projection of average annual demand for middle and high-level
manpower during 1973-1985 was prepared by the mission, based on a conserva-
tive interpretation of internationally observed occupational trends. The
results are summarized below together with the present output capacity of
the educational system:
1/   The situation has become so tight in some professions (e.g. architecture)
that the government has started considering measures to restrict emigra-
tion of highly qualified manpower.
2/   No statistics are available on net emigration of workers.  However, the
excess of departures over arrivals can give a rough order of magnitude
of total net emigration (including non-members of the labor force).
This has averaged 25-30,000 p.a. in recent years.
31   More detailed data on the labor market should become availablea when the
tracer system, included in the first project, is implemented.



-5 -
Projected Av-  1973 Estimated  Projected Annual  Estimated Annual
erage Annual    Outputs from    Output from 1st   Output from Pro-
Demand      the Educational   IDA Educati9n    posed 2nd Educar
1973 - 1935      System L/        Project          tion Project 2/
A. Professionals             1,300          6,070  /             0                  0
A.1 Science/Math.
Based University
Education               400           1,700 21            0                  0
A.2 Arts Based
University Edu-
cation                  900           4,370 /0                               0
B. Technicians               2,15O           1,160             590                300
B.1 Two-year Post-
secondary Voca-
tional Educa-
tion                    900             300             240                300
B.2 Two-year Post-
secondary Arts
Education             1,250             860             350                  0
. Skilled and 5emi-
skilled Workers           7,000          5,800              360              1,150
C.1 Skilled Office
Occupations
(General Second-
ary Education)       2,950           5,?00               0                  0
C.2 Skilled Manual
Occupations
(Vocational
Training)            4,050             700             360              1,150
j  Civilian employment only.
E  Not adjusted for emigration and women's participation in the labor force.
3  Including students trained abroad.
Excluding informal training in industry.
Including the graduates from the vocational streams of comprehensive schools.
2.11       Although these projections are somewhat at variance with the fore-
casts prepared by the National Planning Council (partly because of the differ-
ent time period considered), the qualitative conclusions are virtually the
same, namely that there are important structural imbalances in the present
system of manpower development, which could affect negatively future resource
allocation and economic growth:



-6-
(i) the overall supply of university graduates already exceeds
substantially the absorptive capacity of the labor market;
consequently, it is expected that an increasing number of
graduates will have to fill jobs in the lower occupational
categories or seek employment abroad;
(ii) increasing shortages can be expected of sub-professionals
with vocational background, although some of the vacancies
could be made up by university graduates with technical
education;
(iii) no shortage is likely of technicians with post-secondary
arts-based education (mainly elementary and preparatory
school teachers), given the supply from teacher training
institutions and the relatively ample scope for substitution
by university graduates in arts;
(iv) while there is an increasing surplus of applications for office
occupations requiring general secondary education (which,
incidently, explains the large number of secondary school
graduates continuing to higher studies either in Jordan or
abroad), severe shortages are likely to occur for skilled
manual occupations, normally requiring vocational training.
Thus far, these shortages have been somewhat overcome by
in-plant training or, to a lesser extent, apprenticeship
training (e.g. in the construction industry). However,
in the future these channels of training are unlikely to
be able to play other than a complementary role, given the
scale and quality of skills which are likely to be required.
III. THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
The Present System (Annexes 2, 5 and 6)
3.01       The formal education system in Jordan consists of six years of
elementary education normally beginning at the age of six, three years of
preparatory and three years of secondary education; university education
extends from four to six years. Two-year post-secondary technical and
teacher training courses are aiso offered. Except for a few univetrsity
courses in English, teaching at all levels is conducted in Arabic by Jordanian
staff.  Education is free and, subject to the availability of student places,
compulsory in the first nine grades.
3.02       The Ministry of Education has overall responsibility for educational
policies and planning for elementary, preparatory and secondary education and
caters for about 70% of total enrollments at these levels, the remaining
pupils being enrolled either in UNRWA schools for refugees (22%) or in
private schools (8%). The University of Jordan is an autonomous public
institution, financed mainly by the private sector.



- 7 -
3.03      Elementarv and preparatory education are quantitatively well de-
veloped.  Enrollments more than doubled during the last decade and were
326,100 and 78,000 in 1972/73, representing 104% and 63% of the respective
age groups (including overage students). Repeater rates are relatively low
at 8% and 15%, with drop out rates of 3% and 11% at the elementary and prepa-
ratory levels, respectively. The progression rates between the two levels
is about 98%, reflecting the policy of progressively introducing automatic
promotion within the compulsory cycle. In spite of some differences between
regions, the distribution of educational opportunities by sexes and between
urban and rural areas is fairly even.
3.04      About 78% of students pass the Public Preparatory School Certifi-
cate Examination and the largest majority of them enter secondary education,
which is divided into general, commercial, industrial, agricultural and nurs-
ing education. Since 1968/69, enrollment has been increasing by an average
of 7.3% p.a. to reach about 34,500 in 1972/73 (with girls accounting for 32%
of the total), which represented some 31% of the age group -- a much higher
proportion than in most developing countries. Of these, only about 10% were
enrolled in separate vocational schools. Within general secondary education
8,550 students (43%) were in the scientific streams. Overall pupil/teacher
ratio was 22:1, which is low considering the predominance of general academic
education. Retention rates are generally high (96%), as is the pass rate
(72%) at the Public Secondary Education Examination.
3.05      Of the 3,560 students enrolled in vocational education in 1972/73,
about 1,600 were in commercial schools, 1,500 in industrial schools and the
remainder in agricultural schools or in the secondary school for assistant
nurses. No institution exists for the training of personnel for the hotel
and catering industry. With the exception of the Trade Center operated by
UNRWA, the existing vocational schools have been unsuccessful in meeting the
needs of the labor market, partly because of the academic orientation of
curricula. Very limited opportunities are offered for up-grading or re-
training of adults already in employment.
3.06      Teacher training for the compulsory cycle is conducted in five
institutes enrolling 2,240 trainees in two-year post-secondary pre-service
courses; the annual output is about 860 and is rapidly increasing. In addi-
tion, about 600 unqualified teachers are trained annually in the Teacher
Certification Institute, established in 1970. Secondary teachers presently
are drawn from university graduates who have taken education as a minor
study toward their degree or from graduates who are completing post-graduate
education courses.
3.07      In 1972/73 about 36,000 Jordanian students were enrolled in higher
education, either in Jordan or abroad, which represents about 27% of the 18-21
year age group -- one of the highest enrollment ratios in the world. Of
these, about 3,600 were enrolled in the Faculties of Arts, Science, Economics
and Commerce, and Islamic Studies (Sharia) at the University of Jordan.
Another 3,000 students were enrolled in post-secondary technical, commercial,
agricultural, para-medical and teacher training courses. Of the 29,000



-8-
Jordanians pursuing higher education abroad (mostly in neighboring Arab
countries), an estimated 66% were in social sciences and humanities and 34%
in engineering, medicine, agriculture and other scientific studies.
Educational Issues
3.08      The high participation rates at all levels 11 -- which are associated
with low drop-out and high transition rates -- are the result of a consistent
policy of educational expansion over the past two decades and make the
Jordanian education system quite egalitarian, both geographically, by sexes
and in terms of probability for individual students to reach the highest
levels of education.
3.09      As in many other countries, however, the rapid growth of the edu-
cation system has led to or has aggravated structural imbalances and bottle-
necks, which adversely affect the quality and relevance of education:
(i)  Partly due to delays in increasing the capacity of teacher
training institutions as well as to high attrition and
emigration rates, the number of qualified teachers has not
kept pace with the increasing demand. 2/ At present, un-
qualified teachers still represent 52% of the total teaching
force in elementary and preparatory education. At the second-
ary level 23% of teachers do not have university degrees and
the largest majority of degree holders did not have any pedago-
gical training;
(ii)  The pressure of social demand has led to an over-expansion of
academically-oriented general secondary education not supported
by adequate reforms of curricula and pedagogical methods,
which has perpetuated traditional attitudes toward practical
work and thus increased the disequilibrium between employment
expectations and the availability of corresponding jobs;
(iii)  In spite of growing shortages of sub-professionals and tech-
nicians (paragraphs 2.10 and 2.11), vocational and technical
education have been seriously neglected: enrollments are still
too low and maladjusted to manpower needs, insufficient efforts
have been made (with a few exceptions) to adapt curricula to
the changing functional content of occupations in Jordan, and
instruction methods are generally too theoretical;
1/   At present, every fourth person in Jordan is a student.
2/   It is expected that the ongoing rapid increase in enrollments in
teacher training institutions (including the newly established Faculty
of Education) will progressively correct this imbalance. The first
IDA project should be instrumental in achieving this goal.



- 9 -
(iv) Insufficient attention has been paid to the training and re-
training needs of adult workers, both in agricultural and
non-agricultural sectors, as well as to the problem of functional
literacy (the illiteracy rate is still 41% of the adult popula-
tion).
3.10      A peculiar feature of the Jordanian education system -- which has
negative repercussions on both the quality and the cost of education -- is
the very high percentage of rented school premises.  At present, over 68%
of all elementary classrooms, 50% of preparatory and 23% of secondary are
rented. In urban areas these proportions are even higher -- 95%, 73% and
89%, respectively. Virtually all the rented premises were formerly dwelling
houses, most of the rooms are small and very often lack adequate ventilation
and natural lighting. As a result, laboratories, workshops and other special-
ized teaching facilities are scarce and often too small to facilitate imagina-
tive approaches to teaching and learning. At the same time, class sizes tend
to be uneconomically small in spite of over-crowding and the low student/
teacher ratios merely result in higher recurrent costs, without providing
adequate pedagogical benefits.
Educational Development Strategy
3.11      These shortcomings are recognized by the educational authorities
of the country. Accordingly, the main objectives of the educational plan
1970-1980 are:
(i)  Continuous expansion of elementary and preparatory education
to provide nine years of basic education to all children by
the end of the present decade;
(ii) Expansion of adult education and literacy programs; 1/
(iii) Better adaptation of secondary education to the quantitative
and qualitative manpower needs of the country to be achieved
through: (a) continuous development and reform of curricula
emphasizing scientific and technological contents; (b) pro-
gressive reduction in the transition rate from preparatory
to secondary education (from 77% in 1970 to 50% in 1980) with
parallel increase in the proportion of secondary students
enrolled in vocational education (from about 8% to 30%);
(c) introduction of the concept of comprehensive education; and
1/   Following a pilot project which started in 1965/1966, a Ten Year
Literacy Campaign has been approved by the government, which aims at
complete literacy of the adult population by the mid-1980's. Literacy
courses will continue to be taught in existing schools, so that the
needs for additional capital expenditures will be very limited. At
present, there are 86 literacy centers for men and 119 for women enrol-
ling a total of about 4,200 participants.



- 10 -
(d) re-orientation of vocational and technical streams to
strengthen industrial programs, develop new specializations
and methods of training consistent with the increasing diver-
sification of the economy, and correct the theoretical bias
of curricula;
(iv)  Increase in the proportion of professionally qualified teachers,
particularly for science, technology and mathematics; and
(v)  Improvement in the stock of physical facilities, by (a) gradually
replacing uneconomically small rented school buildings; (b)
regrouping government-owned schools to phase out unsuitable
buildings and increase efficiency of operation, and (c) providing
the schools with adequate workshops, science laboratories and
other teaching aids.
Education Finance (Annexes 7, 8 and 9)
3.12      Since 1967, the pattern of education expenditure in Jordan has been
obscured by the fact that the Jordanian government continued the payment of
teachers' salaries and rents for the West Bank. If these payments are in-
cluded, central government expenditures on education in 1973 amounted to
about JD 8.2 million, or 5.0% of East Bank estimated GDP, which represents
about 7.1% of central government total expenditure and about 17.8% of domestic
public revenues. Foreign aid to education was about JD 1.9 million or 14.5%
of national expenditures on education (Annex 7).
3.13      Over the past five years, public expenditures on education have
been growing at 8.5% p.a. at current prices and total domestic expenditure
at about 9% p.a. (Annex 7). In real terms, the growth has been much slower,
probably in the neighborhood of 1.0% p.a. and 1.5% p.a., respectively, which
compares favorably with the average growth of total enrollments of about 7%
p.a.
3.14      A peculiar feature of education finance in Jordan has been the low
percentage of capital expenditure with respect to total education expenditure.
In the last five years, the Mtinistry of Education spent, as an average, only
about 7% of its budget for capital investments, which was too low to provide
the required number of additional classrooms. In practice, the gap has been
filled by increasing the number of rented classrooms (para 3.10). From a
short-term budgetary point of view, renting is attractive as the rents re-
present only a relatively small percentage of the capital outlays needed
to replace the buildings. However, most of the rented facilities are totally
unsuitable for educational purposes and they are often too small to permit
economical class sizes, which generates additional recurrent expenditures.
It is estimated that with more economical (and yet feasible) student/teacher
ratios (40:1, 30:1 and 25:1 at elementary, preparatory and secondary levels,
respectively) the Ministry of Education could have saved up to JD 600,000
or about 8% of its recurrent expenditures in 1973.



- 11 -
3.15      Projections of future education expenditures on education for the
East Bank (Annex 9) were made on the assumption that the government will
succeed in keeping salary increases at a relatively low level (3% p.a. in
real terms) and that total enrollments will grow in accordance with the pre-
sent education plan (para 3.11). Allowance was made for the expected in-
crease in the proportion of qualified teachers and for the need to increase
expenditures for school maintenance as well as educational materials and sup-
plies which are presently very low (Annex 8). Under these assumptions, pub-
lic recurrent expenditures on education are expected to grow at about 8% p.a.
during 1973-1985, and would absorb about 6.3% of East Bank GDP in 1985 --
assuming that GDP will grow at about 7% p.a. in real terms during the same
period. Total investment required in new student places during 1973-1985 can
be estimated at about JD 43 million in 1974 prices, which could be further
reduced depending on the proportion of schools operated in double shift.
The annual average investment would therefore be around US$11 million, which
could increase to US$15 million to the extent that rented facilities are
progressively replaced. 1/ This is an ambitious target which nevertheless
could be achieved, particularly if the government's expectations are fulfilled
that some 50% of the required investment would be financed by external sources.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to expand and re-
inforce vocational and technical education including adult training and re-
training to produce the specialized skills required for the development of
priority sectors of the economy (agriculture and food processing, mining,
manufacturing industry and tourism); (ii) to support integrated rural devel-
opment projects in the Jordan Valley through the provision of a pilot scheme
of non-formal basic education; and (iii) to promote quality improvements,
rationalization and economy of operation in both the compulsory cycle and
secondary education by replacing uneconomically small, rented school build-
ings and providing the schools with adequate workshops and other teaching
facilities. The project would reinforce the system of comprehensive and
technical education financed under the first education project and extend
the reform to specializations and types of education not included in that
project. Specifically, the project would comprise construction, furnishing
and equipping of the following institutions (further details are given in
Annexes 10 and 11):
1/   On an annual basis, this average would represent about 15% of the total
fixed investments by the public sector envisaged by the Plan for the
period 1973-1975.



- 12 -
Student Capacity Estimated   Accommodation
Replace-   Annual   Student   Staff
Type of Institution         Grades    New    ment        Output   Boarding Housing
Irbid Polytechnic           13-14       240      -          110         -
Aqaba Training Complex    10-11         630/1   -           400/1      80
Hotel Training School       10-11 &
13-14      460      -          300         -        -
Ghor Rural Development
Center                   ungraded      90     -        1,000         -        1
Three Comprehensive
Secondary Schools         10-12    3,150   3,150       1,900         -        -
Five Science Laboratories 10-12         240      -          n.a.        -
Four Craft Centers for
Girls                      7-9        190     -          n.a.        -
Seven Pre-vocational
Workshops for Boys         7-9        340      -          n.a.        -       -
5,340   3,150      3,710        80        1
11   At full capacity
n.a. not applicable.
Irbid Polytechnic
4.02      The proposed Polytechnic at Irbid would supplement the training of
technicians to be offered by the Marka Polytechnic (included in the first
project), by providing two-year post-secondary courses in three main fields:
(i) food technology, with specializations after a common first year of train-
ing in food manufacturing and fruit and vegetable processing; (ii) textile
technology; and (iii) industrial chemistry with specializations after the
first year in petrochemistry, minerals processing and chemical manufacture.
Entry requirements would be completion of general secondary education (science
stream) for industrial chemistry, industrial secondary education for textile
technology and agricultural secondary education for food technology. Annual
intake capacity would be about 20 trainees per specialization, corresponding
to a total enrollment of 240 students and an annual output of approximately
110 technicians. Short intensive specialization courses for former students
and support courses for institutions lacking the facilities available at the
Polytechnic would also be organized as the need arises.
4.03      Training at the Polytechnic would be defined in terms of specific
fields of industrial application. The government has provided an assurance
that detailed curricula and syllabi, designed in terms of the functional con-
tent of technicians' jobs in the Jordanian economy, will be prepared and pre-
sented to the Association for comments within two years of signing of the
Credit Agreement. In order to ensure a permanent liaison with industry, an
Advisory Council for the Polytechnic would be established within one year of
signing of the Credit Agreement, which would include representatives of pub-
lic and private industry, of the National Vocational Council and of- the con-
cerned educational institutions, and would be responsible inter alia for ad-
vising on curriculum development, entrance criteria and evaluation systems.



- 13 -
4.04      Administration of the Polytechnic would be the responsibility of
a Director who would be advised on policy matters by the Council mentioned
above. A sufficient number of reasonably qualified Jordanians would be
available for the approximately 20 teaching positions; 15 man/years of
fellowships have been included within the project for their upgrading.
In addition to the fellowships, about 5 man/years of experts' services
would be provided to develop curricula and syllabi, and assist in prepar-
ing detailed equipment lists.
4.05      The average utilization rate for workshops and laboratories would
be about 68%, which is economical given the range of specializations offered.
Weekly teaching loads per teacher would be about 20 periods, which is accept-
able. The proposed Polytechnic would therefore be economically viable.
Aqaba Trade Training Complex
4.06      The proposed Trade Training Complex, to be located at Aqaba, would
provide full-time and part-time courses of various duration in five basic
specializations (plant maintenance and repair; industrial electricity; in-
strumentation and control; climatization and refrigeration; materials han-
dling and transport) as well as pre-apprentice basic training and up-grad-
ing, conversion and re-training courses for adults. Entrance requirements
would vary according to the courses, but would include completion of prep-
aratory education for full-time training; aptitude tests would be adminis-
tered for all courses. The Complex would be built for an initial capacity
of 360 trainees in one shift of 44 hours per week, corresponding to an an-
nual output of about 50 skilled workers, 20 graduates from the pre-appren-
tice basic training course and 150 graduates from part-time courses. When
fully operational and with the introduction of a continuous work day, the
Center would enroll up to 400 full-time and 230 part-time trainees, with
an estimated annual output of about 400 trained workers at different levels
of skills.
4.07      Flexible training patterns in modular form would be used to increase
educational efficiency. Modular training would also help improve upward so-
cial mobility of workers by providing training arrangements which could be
utilized at any time over the entire span of a working life. Training would
be organized on the basis of within-shop rotation, with each instructor as-
signed to a given section of the workshop. Continuous relationship with
industry would be assured by a Liaison Committee, chaired by the Director
of Vocational Education in the Ministry of Education and comprising repre-
sentatives of the National Vocational Council, the Director of the Complex
and representatives of public and private industry. The government has pro-
vided an assurance that such Committee would be established within one year
of signing of the Credit Agreement.
4.08      Detailed curricula and syllabi, designed in terms of the functional
contents of jobs in the Jordanian industry, together with master equipment
lists for each specialization would be prepared by a team of foreign experts
and consultants (about 5 manlyears), to be financed under the proposed program
of technical assistance. Curricula and syllabi would be submitted to the



- 14 -
Association for comments within 2 years of signing of the Credit Agreement.
About 15 man/years of fellowships would be provided to train 4 instructors
for each specialization as required to staff the Complex. It is expected
that a sufficient number of qualified Jordanian candidates will be available.
4.09      As the present system of examinations in industrial secondary
schools is largely inconsistent with the new orientation of vocational educa-
tion in Jordan as well as with the educational concept of the proposed Complex,
the government has provided an assurance that the ongoing preparation of a new
trade testing and certification system applicable to all forms of vocational
education will be completed by the time the proposed Complex starts operating
and, in any case, within three years of signing of the Credit Agreement.
Hotel Training School
4.10      The proposed Hotel Training School, to be located in Amman where
the largest majority of the total hotel labor force is and will continue to
be employed, would consist of a hotel school with about 280 student places
and a practice hotel with a capacity of about 80 beds. The school -- the
only one of this type in Jordan -- would provide two-year courses at either
secondary or post-secondary levels to train middle-level personnel for the
hotel and catering industry in four basic specializations (hotel administra-
tion, accounting and control; reception and front office; restaurant and bar;
kitchen). In addition, a one year course in hotel management would be offered
to applicants who successfully complete any of the first three basic special-
izations above. Ad hoc one year courses in housekeeping and storekeeping,
and a six month course for tourism guides would also be organized in accord-
ance with the needs of the industry -- in principle, every alternate year.
In addition, short intensive training would be provided in the practice
hotel for lower level personnel (waiters, barmen, linen maids, cleaners,
ironers, washers, etc.).
4.11      The Hotel Training School would enroll about 240 regular students
in classes five days a week; 100 day-release students who will attend the
school one day a week; and 120 on-the-job trainees in the practice hotel.
Annual output would be approximately 20 graduates from the managerial course,
170 middle-level personnel and about 120 lower-level workers, which should
be easily absorbed by the labor market (Annex 4).
4.12      Due to the lack of local knowledge of hotel training, technical as-
sistance would be essential for the success of the proposed project. Accord-
ingly, a highly qualified foreign expert would be appointed as sooni as the
Credit becomes effective to prepare course outlines and equipment :Lists and
advise the architects in the preparation of architectural designs; later, he
would be appointed Director of the Hotel Training School and would start work-
ing at least six months before the inauguration of the school for a period of
about two years. Another qualified foreign expert would be appointed as
General Manager of the practice hotel for about two years, starting about two
months before inauguration.  In addition, four foreign experts would be re-
cruited for one year each to prepare detailed curricula and syllabi for



- 15 -
the four basic specializations, teach the courses and train their Jordanian
counterparts. About 12 man/years of fellowships abroad would be provided to
train four Jordanian instructors (one for each of the four basic specializa-
tions) as well as the counterparts to the Director and the General Manager.
4.13      The practice hotel, in which all students would receive their prac-
tical training, would be open to the public and function commercially with
all the departments and services generally found in Jordanian 3-star hotels.
Separate accounts would be kept for the school and the practice hotel. As
the practice hotel is not expected to generate sufficient income to cover
the total recurrent expenditures of the school, the government would provide
educational grants or other form of financing sufficient to cover any oper-
ating deficit. Moreover, because of the commercial aspect of the practice
hotel, the government has provided an assurance that the liotel Training
School will be legally established as a corporation within three years of
the Credit Agreement date, with a Board of Management comprising representa-
tives of public and private agencies interested in hotel and tourism training.
Rural Development Center
4.14      The proposed Rural Development Center would be located near Deir
Allah in the Middle Ghor, close to an agricultural research station of the
Ministry of Agriculture and a new UNDP-financed training center for exten-
sion agents. The proposed Center would function as a pilot non-formal edu-
cation project to support integrated rural development projects in the cen-
tral Jordan Valley. 1/ The Center would provide short intensive courses for
adults in the afternoon or in the evening in rural skills, general agricul-
ture (in cooperation with the training center for extension agents), coop-
erative development, women's crafts, public health, nutrition and family
care as well as functionally-oriented basic literacy courses. In the morn-
ing, the Center would serve as a centralized workshop for neighboring schools,
at both preparatory and secondary levels, catering for about 300 students
(boys and girls).
4.15      The courses for adults would be organized in the form of modules
of about 40 hours each, and instruction would be predominantly practical.
The proposed facilities would include an industrial workshop with mechanical,
electrical, plumbing, woodwork and masonry sections, a women's craft workshop,
1/   The IDA-financed Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project
will cover the northern part of the Valley. The Federal Republic of
Germany is financing the agricultural development of the Southern Ghor,
while US-AID has committed itself to finance a rural development project
(construction of settlements, extension of the East Ghor Canal and irri-
gation of the Zarqa area) in the Middle Valley.



- 16 -
a day nursery, an assembly hall and administrative offices. Equipment would
be simple -- mainly of the type that the trainees are likely to use in their
occupations. It is estimated that the Center could organize some 50 courses
per year enrolling up to 1,000 adult trainees.
4.16       It is expected that the adult trainees would be drawn mainly from
the following groups:
(i) preparatory and secondary school drop-outs;
(ii) young people (typically aged 15-34 years) employed in farming
or agriculture-related activities; and
(iii)  adult farmers requiring training or retraining, and farrmers'
wives.
In 1973, the total population in the Middle Ghor was about 26,000, of which
13,500 were in the 12-65 year age group and 7,500 in the 15-34 year age group.
The level of educational attainment was significantly lower than the national
average, with about 77% of the adults not having completed elementary educa-
tion.
4.17       The Center would be under the control and financial responsibility
of the Ministry of Education. Coordination at the policy level would be
through the Liaison and Advisory Committee of the Jordan Valley Commission.
Organization of courses and scheduling of activities would be the responsi-
bility of the Director, assisted by a management committee which would in-
clude representatives of the local community. The government has provided an
assurance that a detailed program of activities for the Center would be pre-
pared and submitted to the Association for comments within one yea!r of signing
of the Credit Agreement.
Comprehensive Schools
4.18       The three proposed comprehensive schools (grades 10-12), one for
boys and one for girls at Zarqa and one for girls at Irbid, would offer a
broad curriculum incorporating pre-vocational training with academic sub-
jects for all students. Each comprehensive school would enroll approxi-
mately 1,050 students in each of two shifts, making a total enrollment of
about 6,300 students, 30% of whom would be in practical subjects streams.
The proposed schools would help reduce tlhe demand on unsuitable rented fa-
cilities, thus permitting the replacement of about 20 of the worst premises --
which cost the government a combined annual rental of about US$38,000. Each
school would also be available in the evening for adult education and com-
munity development activities.
4.19       The proposed schools would offer four streams of specialization:
arts, science, commerce and industrial arts or home economics. The curri-
cula (Annex 11) would consist of three segments: common core subjects,
specialized fields of study and elective studies. All students would study
the common core of subjects outside their stream of specialization in each



- 17 -
of the three years, thus becoming acquainted with the contents and skills
of a wide range of subjects. Within the specialized streams, provision
would be made for about 35% practical work in the sciences and commerce
and 75% in industrial arts/home economics. The elective segment aims at
introducing supplementary information and skills through a wide range of
half-year, non-examinable courses with predominantly practical, life-long
application which would not be covered otherwise in the formal program.
This balanced curriculum would enable students either to proceed to more
advanced studies or to be rapidly trained (either formally or on the job)
in more specialized skills. In this way, the proposed comprehensive schools
would provide a flexible basis for meeting the needs of those sectors of the
economy, whose pattern of development and specific skill requirements cannot
be forecast at the present time.
4.20      The project would provide for technical assistance in the form of
an expert in comprehensive school curricula (1 man/year) 1/, fellowships of
one year each for the heads of the departments of commerce and vocational
education in each school (6 man/years), and travelling scholarships for the
three headmasters (1.5 man/years) to familiarize them with modern methods of
administration and time scheduling in double-shift schools.
Workshops and Laboratories
4.21      Science laboratories and craft workshops would be provided in gov-
ernment-owned preparatory and secondary schools distributed throughout the
country.  Five secondary schools would be provided with science blocks con-
sisting of a general laboratory, a chemistry laboratory and a preparation/
store room. Craft centers for girls with work spaces for food and nutrition,
textile and clothing, health and child care, home management and craft ac-
tivities would be provided in four preparatory and secondary schools. Pre-
vocational workshops to provide an introduction to woodwork, woodcarving,
upholstery, drawing, electricity, metal work, plumbing, ceramics and machine
maintenance would be built at seven existing boys' preparatory schools.  All
extensions would be available for use by adults in the evenings.
4.22      The proposed extensions would respond to the objective of increas-
ing the practical content of preparatory education, in order to correct the
academic bias of curricula and meet the training needs of the increasing num-
ber of students who will join the labor force or enter vocational education
at the end of the compulsory cycle (para. 3.11). Given the proposed reorien-
tation of the compulsory cycle and the need to maintain adequate quality con-
trols over the performance of the system, the government has provided an
assurance that the Preparatory School Certificate Examination will be revised
within three years of signing of the Credit Agreement to: (i) allow for
1/   The expert would assist in the overall design and development of compre-
hensive school curricula, thus complementing the technical assistance
(design of industrial arts curricula) financed under the first project.



- 18 -
testing of practical skills as well as theoretical knowledge; (ii) provide
for meaningful testing of educational achievement in the compulsory cycle,
with criteria for satisfactorily completing the test to be established inde-
pendently of the number of student places available in secondary education
(criterion-referenced tests); (iii) introduce adequate norm-referenced
criteria to select among the students awarded the Preparatory School Certifi-
cate those entitled to continue to either general secondary or vocational
education.
Educational Buildings Survey
4.23      At present, no systematic information is available in Jordan on the
conditions of physical facilities in either rented or owned schools. Given
the importance of such information for both educational development planning
and the identification of possible future Bank projects, an educational build-
ings survey is proposed, which would be conducted by two teams, each consist-
ing of an architect, a teacher from the Ministry of Education and the build-
ing officer of the district involved. The services of a foreign expert --
included as part of the technical assistance program -- would be required
for about 6 man/months to design the survey and assist in the analysis of
the findings.
Technical Assistance
4.24      The program of technical assistance, described above under each pro-
posed project item, would total 20 man/years of experts' services and about 50
man/years of fellowships. The proposed phasing of the program is given in
Annex 12.
Project Administration
4.25      In view of the workload that the proposed project would impose on
the existing Project Implementation Unit, additional staff would be required,
including a deputy director, a civil engineer, a procurement officer and an
accountant. The recruitment of the required additional personnel with the
desired qualifications, as well as the retention of the present Project Unit
staff, will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, unless sufficiently
attractive salaries can be offered. As the existing civil service salary
scales are low , the proposed Credit would provide a supplementary allowance
for the personnel of the expanded Project Unit to make their salaries competi-
tive with the private sector. The estimated total cost during the period
1975-1981 would be about US$150,000, or less than 1.0% of total project cost.
Project Evaluation System
4.26      To enable the government and the Association to assess the success
of the first education project in achieving its objectives, the government
agreed to establish a "tracer" system for all project institutions (Section
4.03 of the Credit Agreement). The government has confirmed that such system
would also be applied to the proposed second project.



- 19 -
Cost Estimates
4.27      The estimated total cost of the project is JD 5.5 million or US$17.5
million equivalent. A breakdown by project items is given in the following
table 1/:
% of
Base
JD (millions)        US$ (millions)        Line
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Costs
A.  Physical Facilities
1.  Irbid Polytechnic        0.13   0.22    0.35   0.40   0.71   1.11   10%
2.  Aqaba Training Complex 0.17   0.29    0.46   0.54   0.93   1.45   12%
3.  Hotel Training School  0.16   0.29    0.45   0.52   0.91   1.43   12%
4. -Rural Development
Center                 0.04   0.06    0.10   0.12   0.20   0.32    3%
5. Three Comprehensive
Schools                0.46   0.82    1.28   1.47   2.59   4.06   35%
6. Five Science
Laboratories           0.05   0.08    0.13   0.15   0.26   0.41    3%
7.  Four Craft Centers
for Girls              0.04   0.08    0.12   0.14   0.24   0.38    3%
8. Seven Pre-Vocational
Workshops for Boys    0.09   0.16    0.25   0.29   0.50   0.79    7%
Sub-Total (A)          1.14   2.00    3.14   3.61   6.34   9.95   85%
B. Services
1.  Professional Services  0.05   0.13    0.18   0.17   0.41   0.58    5%
2.  Project Administration 0.04        -     0.04   0.12       -    0.12    1%
3.  Technical Assistance   0.06   0.25    0.31   0.20   0.79   0.99    9%
Sub-Total (B)         0.15   0.38    0.53   0.49   1.20   1.69   15%
C.  Base Line Costs (A+B)         1.29   2.38    3.67   4.10   7.54  11.64  100%
D. Contingencies
1.  Physical Increase        0.12   0.21    0.33   0.37   0.67   1.04    9%
2.  Price Increase           0.57   0.93    1.50   1.80   2.97   4.77   41%
Sub-Total (D)         0.69   1.14    1.83   2.17   3.64   5.81   50%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                1.98   3.52    5.50   6.27  11.18  17.45
1/   Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 13.



- 20 -
4.28      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
contracts for the first IDA project and on information obtained from private
and public enterprises. Equipment and furniture cost estimates are based on
reasonable unit prices for each category of goods. Costs per stuclent place
are satisfactory (Annex 14). Detailed lists with itemized costs will be com-
piled during the design stage and presented for Association approval before
procurement. Space standards for the project schools are based on detailed
schedules of accommodations, consistent with curricula requirements, and the
use factors of the facilities are economical.
4.29      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated cost for civil work, furni-
ture, equipment and professional services. During the project implementation
period, prices are expected to increase by about 42% for civil works, 37% for
professional services, 31% for furniture and equipment and 28% for technical
assistance. Accordingly, price contingencies are estimated at about 38% of
base line costs plus physical contingencies (Annex 15).
4.30      The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$11.2 million,
representing about 64% of total project cost. It was calculated as follows:
(i) civil works 50%; (ii) professional services 70%; (iii) furniture and
equipment 95%; and (iv) technical assistance 80%.
4.31      The proposed project would have only a small impact on future edu-
cational expenditures. At full capacity the project institutions would re-
quire about JD 350,000 per year in operating costs, corresponding to less
than 2% of projected public recurrent expenditures on education by 1985.
Financial Plan (Annex 16)
4.32      The proposed credit would finance about 54% of the total estimated
foreign exchange component of physical facilities and services.  Technical
assistance is expected to be financed entirely by multilateral and bilateral
sources. The government has indicated that, in view of the high priority of
all items included in the project, they expect to find other sources of sup-
plementary financing or, in the absence of these, would finance the entire
balance out of the budget. The financial plan would be as follows:



- 21 -
Multilateral
and Bilateral
Government   IDA       Sources          Total
--------------(US$ millions)---------------
1.  Civil Works                      7.20   2.60           -             9.80
2.  Furniture                        0.48   0.48           -             0.96
3.  Equipment                        1.01   2.02           -             3.03
4.  Professional Services            0.55   0.25           -             0.80
5.  Project Administration            -     0.15           -             0.15
6.  Technical Assistance              -      -            1.27           1.27
Subtotal (including
price increases)        9.24   5.50           1.27         16.01
7.  Physical contingencies           0.94   0.50                         1.44
Total                    10.18   6.00           1.27          17.45
Implementation
4.33      The Project Implementation Unit, established under the first educa-
tion project and further reinforced as indicated above (para. 4.25), would
also be responsible for this project.
4.34      The Ministry of Public Works would prepare the designs and tender
documents for the proposed extensions to the existing preparatory/secondary
schools and would supervise construction. For the other project items,
consultant architects/engineers acceptable to the Association would be appoint-
ed under terms and conditions agreeable to the Association.
4.35      The existing preparatory/secondary schools sites are adequate to
accommodate the proposed extensions and are owned by the Ministry of Educa-
tion. For the new project institutions, adequate sites are available. Evid-
ence of sites' acquisition would be submitted to the Association prior to
the commencement of construction.
4.36      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Association's guidelines. It is
expected that the contracts would be awarded to Jordanian firms, as the
country has a competitive construction industry capable of implementing the
proposed project. Construction contracts not exceeding US$100,000 would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. This procedure would
apply only to the extensions to preparatory and/or secondary schools; the
average estimated civil works costs for science laboratories, women's crafts
centers and prevocational workshops are US$60,000, 63,000 and 78,000, respect-
ively. Apart from the small sums involved, the extensions are dispersed over
the country, in some cases in remote areas, so that international competitive
bidding would not be practical. Qualified Jordanian contractors are avail-
able in all the localities concerned.



- 22 -
4.37      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for the
Association's review prior to procurement. These lists would identify all
items or categories of items costing more than US$2,000, the residual items
being included in one miscellaneous category not exceeding US$50,000 for each
institution. Items would be grouped to the extent possible to form sizeable
packages to permit bulk procurement. Furniture and equipment contracts, ex-
cept for the items included in the miscellaneous categories and the furniture
for the proposed extensions, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Nearly
all equipment and about 80% of the furniture are expected to be obtained from
foreign manufacturers.
4.38      Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable to
competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.  Bid com-
parison would be made in accordance with the Association's guidelines on the
application of domestic preferences in bid evaluation.
4.39      Furniture for the preparatory/secondary schools extensions would
be required approximately 15 months before the completion of the comprehen-
sive schools and would cost only US$109,000. For this reason, corLtracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. The same
procedures would be followed for the procurement of the residual items includ-
ed in the miscellaneous categories refered to above (para. 4.37). It is ex-
pected that the total value of contracts awarded on the basis of local compe-
titive bidding would not exceed 20% of the total cost of furniture and equip-
ment.
4.40      The project would be implemented over a period of seven years after
the signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 17). Construction as well as pro-
curement and installation of equipment and furniture are expected to be com-
pleted about five years after Credit signing. An additional 1-1/2 years would
be required to complete the technical assistance program; all accounts would
be closed within the following six months.
Disbursements
4.41      Disbursements (Annex 18) for items to be financed by the proposed
Credit would be on the basis of: (i) 27% of total expenditure for civil
works; (ii) 31% of total expendituze for professional services; (iii) 63%
of the c.i.f. cost or ex-factory price for furniture and equipment: and (iv)
100% of total expenditure for project administration. The percentage for
civil works would be adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements over
the implementation period. Undisbursed funds, if any, would be available for
further development of the project in accordance with a program agreeable to
the Association.



- 23 -
V. BENEFITS
5.01      The proposed project would assist the government in implementing
its plans for qualitative improvement and reorientation of the education and
training system in accordance with the new development needs of the country.
This would be accomplished:
(i) in vocational and technical education, through the introduc-
tion of new specializations required to sustain the expected
process of industrial growth and industrial diversification
(Irbid Polytechnic); through the provision of flexible train-
ing arrangements which would make the manpower development
system more responsive to changing technological requirements
and increased manpower needs of the industrial and mining
sectors (Aqaba Training Complex); and through the establishment
of the first institution in the country catering for the grow-
ing manpower needs of the hotel and tourism sector (Hotel Train-
ing School);
(ii ) in rural development training, through the provision of a
pilot non-formal education institution, which could be in-
strumental in enhancing the effectiveness of integrated
rural development projects in the Jordan Valley, by provid-
ing basic skills required to improve productivity and stand-
ards of living; and
(iii)  in general education, through the reinforcement of pre-voca-
tional activities for both boys and girls in preparatory
schools, improvement of science teaching at the secondary
level and diversification of secondary education (comprehen-
sive schools).
The proposed project would thus reinforce the pattern of educational reform
promoted by the first project and assist in extending the reform to new edu-
cational activities and new target groups.
5.02      An important benefit of the project would be to reduce the depend-
ence on uneconomically small and educationally unsuitable rented facilities.
In addition to the educational benefits stemming from the availability of
appropriate facilities and a suitable learning environment, the project would
result in considerable financial savings of rentals and teachers' salaries
(estimated at about US$185,000 per year).
5.03      The proposed project would also contribute to institution building
by providing better institutional links between the schools and the labor
market, stimulating the reform of the system of examinations and trade test-
ing, and establishing a systematic source of information on educational build-
ings, as required for educational planning and programming.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the followings princi-
pal points:
(i) detailed curricula and syllabi for the proposed Irbid Poly--
technic and the Aqaba Trade Training Complex, designed in
terms of the functional content of jobs in the Jordanian
industry, would be prepared and presented to the Association
for comments (paras 4.03 and 4.08);
(ii)  an Advisory Council would be established for the proposed
Polytechnic which would include representatives of public and
private industry, of the National Vocational Council and of
the concerned educational institutions, and would be respons-
ible inter alia for providing guidelines on curriculum develop-
ment, entrance criteria and evaluation systems (para. 4.03);
(iii)  a Liaison Committee would be established for the proposed
Aqaba Trade Training Complex, chaired by the Director of
Vocational Education in the Ministry of Education and compris-
ing representatives of the National Vocational Council, the
Director of the Complex and representatives of public and
private industry (para. 4.07);
(iv)  within three years of signing of the Credit Agreement, the
Preparatory School Certificate Examination would be revised
to: (a) allow for testing of practical skills as well as
theoretical knowledge; (b) provide for testing of educa-
tional achievement in the compulsory cycle, with criteria
for satisfactory completion to be established independently
of the number of student places available in secondary
education; and (c) introduce adequate criteria to select
among the students awarded the Preparatory School Certifi-
cate those entitled to continue to either general secondary
or vocational education (para. 4.22).
6.02      The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$6.0 mil-
lion to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.



* --===-*  ~~==-~,=.=          =     , - . - .-   --    --                  -  ....          .. .. .. .                 . .. .                                            t    . ,






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
JORDAN
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        Fornmal education in Jordan is conducted by the Ministry of Educa-
tion, other ministries, UNRWA (United Nations Relief and Works Agency) and
international and national private agencies (Chart 1). The Ministry of Edu-
cation effectively controls curricula and instruction in all elementary and
secondary schools.
2.        The highly structured administration of the Ministry is assisted
by regional directorates in each governorate or district (Chart 2). With
few exceptions, administrators are former teachers holding at least a bache-
lor's degree but lacking training in administration.
3.        The education and training system (Chart 3) is based on a 6-3-3
structure although private kindergartens are available in major cities to
children below six years of age. The government is moving towards nine
years of compulsory education followed by a three-year secondary cycle with
both academic and vocational programs, the former dividing into arts and
science streams for the last two years and the latter currently having sep-
arate vocational schools for agriculture, commerce, industrial arts, and
nursing. Three specialized trade training centers were established in 1973
for two years post-preparatory skill training. At the post-secondary level,
two-year institutes train elementary and preparatory school teachers and pro-
vide technician level courses in engineering, commerce, Islamic law, social
services, statistics and nursing. The University of Jordan currently offers
courses to some 3,600 students in the Faculties of Arts, Science, Economics
and Commerce, Islamic studies, Education, Agriculture, Nursing and Medicine;
the last four faculties commenced in 1973. In addition, some 29,000 students
are estimated to be studying in universities abroad. Non-formal education
is increasing through agricultural extension and cooperative and adult liter-
acy programs. Research activities are conducted under the auspices of the
Royal Scientific Society.
4.        Small, poorly ventilated, ill-lighted former dwellings having
little playground space are rented by the Ministry of Education as schools.
In urban areas 95% of elementary, 73% of preparatory and 89% of secondary
schools operate in such premises often on a double shift basis. Equipment
and furniture are inadequate. The few new buildings which have been con-
structed in recent years are based on UNRWA models providing adequate light-
ing and ventilation and being supplied with reasonable equipment and furniture.
Compulsory Cycle Education
5.        The average annual growth rate of elementary and preparatory enroll-
ments since 1968 has been 7.2% and 7.9% respectively. Including overage
enrollments, 104% and 63% of the age groups are enrolled at elementary and



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
preparatory levels respectively. Female enrollment both as a percentage of
the age group and as a percentage of total enrollment at each level is
relatively high for a developing country (Chart 4).
6.        In 1972, 52% of teachers in the compulsory cycle were considered
unqualified. Of the 8,500 elementary teachers, only 3,400 had urLdertaken
post-secondary teacher training or higher studies. Of the 3,630 preparatory
teachers, 2,420 were similarly qualified. Staffing is establishe!d on the
basis of 1.1:1 and 1.3:1 teachers per class in elementary and preparatory
schools respectively to provide an adequate staff:class ratio.
7.        The average student:teacher ratio of 38:1 in elementary, schools
is satisfactory while the ratio of 21:1 in preparatory schools is uneconomic-
ally low. However, these ratios do not reflect either the conditions in
small, overcrowded urban schools or the premature establishment of classes
in rural areas for 10 or more children. With an over supply of university
graduates seeking teaching positions the average workload of a teacher in
a 36-period week is low at 30 and 28 for elementary and preparatory teachers
respectively.
8.        Representative curriculum committees for each subject continuously
review syllabi with major revisions occurring every six years. The curric-
ulum department within the Ministry is adequately organized and competently
staffed. Curricula revisions at all levels are seeking to incorporate more
practical, work-oriented activities for students.
9.        The preparatory certificate examination dominates the compulsory
cycle and is the entrance requirement to secondary education. Curricula
revisions are attempting to provide alternatives to memory learning on which
this examination is based.
Secondary General Education
10.       In 1972, nearly 31,000 students were enrolled in general academic
courses in private and government secondary schools. Of the students in
grades 11 and 12, 43% were in the science streams. UNRWA does not provide
secondary classes but pays a per capita allowance for every refugee enrolled
in government secondary schools.
11.       Of the 1,345 secondary teachers, 77% are university graduates only
2% of whom possess post-graduate diplomas in education and another 9% hold
a two-year post-secondary teaclher's diploma. Government regulations require
qualified secondary teachers to have undertaken at least one year of post
graduate studies but this has only recently become available through the
University of Jordan. Rapidly increasing numbers of teachers and admin-
istrators are obtaining such qualifications.
12.       The average student:teacher ratio is 23:1, reflecting the abundance
of teachers and the small size of many classrooms. In a 36-period week the
teaching load for a secondary teacher varies between 20 and 24 periods per
week.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
13.       The pass rate for the General Secondary Education Certificate is
72% but only the most highly qualified are admitted to higher education with-
in Jordan. Hence, many candidates repeat the examination in successive
years even after taking alternative employment.
Vocational and Technical Education
14.       Since 1967, vocational education enrollments have increased by 76%
from 2,025 to 3,564; in 1972, this was 10% of the total secondary enrollment.
The growth of enroLlments has been greatest in commercial and industrial
schools.
15.       Technical education at the post secondary level has been limited to
two engineering centers for 213 technicians: one operated by UNRWA and the
other by the Ministry of Education within the vocational industrial school in
Amman. UNRWA also conducts an advanced commercial course for 160 refugee
students.
16.       Under UNDP/ILO assistance, a national vocational training scheme
was inaugurated in 1973. The scheme encompasses a comprehensive review of
vocational training, a study of industrial requirements, an advisory and
supervisory system for in-plant and apprenticeship training and the estab-
lishment of a permanent tracer system. A four-week course of in-service
training for 42 existing industrial secondary and trade training center
teachers was held during the summer of 1973.
Agricultural Education
17.       Agricultural education in preparatory schools is almost entirely
theoretical in content and presentation. In contrast, the two agricultural
secondary schools conducted by the Ministry of Education, with an enrollment
of nearly 370 students, provide a practically-oriented syllabus. However,
fewer than 10% of the graduates from these schools directly join the labor
force as farmers; the remainder seek government employment or further educa-
tion. The Ministry of Agriculture has little input into agricultural educa-
tion and the committee established between the two ministries to coordinate
agricultural education and review curricula has not been effective. At
present, little training is provided for farmers. The Faculty of Agricul-
ture at the Univerbity of Jordan was established in 1973 with an initial en-
rollment of 50 students but the emphasis will be on post-graduate studies
related to Jordanian conditions for students trained overseas.
18.       Rural development training is spasmodic with the Ministry of Agri-
culture producing about 30 extension agents annually. The Ministry of Social
Affairs and Labor conducts a rural development center on a non-formal basis
together with a child care and health clinic.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
Teacher Training
19.       Five adequately equipped two-year post-secondary institutes enroll
2,240 trainees with an annual output of about 860. Staff are well educated,
experienced teachers.
20.       Secondary teachers are drawn from university graduates having at
least minor studies in education. Although the Faculty of Science at the
University of Jordan is well equipped, pedagogical training throughout the
University has been very limited prior to 1973 and the establishment of
the Faculty of Education.
21.       In-service teacher preparation is provided annually for 600 un-
qualified teachers in the compulsory cycle through courses lasting two years
for one day per week and continuously over three summer vacations. Since its
inauguration in 1970, the Teachers' Certification Institute has experienced
only a 5% drop-out rate and maintained a 91% pass rate. Unqualifed teachers
are selected on a quota basis from each district. Regional centers are being
established to provide effective weekly seminars. A young, highly qualified
and enthusiastic staff have developed courses of high quality.
University Education
22.       In 1972, nearly 3,600 students representing 5% of the 18 to 21 year
age-group were enrolled at the well equipped, extensive campus of the Univer-
sity of Jordan. A further 29,000 Jordanian students, of whom 66% are in the
Social Sciences and Humanities, are enrolled in higher education in 25 coun-
tries overseas.
Other Education
23.       Literacy classes for about 4,200 students in about 200 centers are
held five days a week for 8 months in each of two years. Books and teaching
materials are distributed free of charge. Trained teachers from the Ministry
of Education are em.ployed outside their normal teaching duties.
24.       Three or four week summer work camps permit secondary students to
assist with community projects undertaken by various ministries.
25.       Various institutes conduct one or two year post-secondary courses
with relatively small enrollments (Chart 1 and Annex 5).



AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE FOR EDUCATION
(with percentages of total foil-tim  e-nroll-t. 1972/73)
Ministry of      Ministry of      Univeraity                 Ministry of      Ministry of      Ministry of          Ministry of       Ministry of         Ministry of      Youth and        Private
Level and Type of Education        Education        Defense          of Jordan       UNRWA      Agriculture       Information      Social Affair.      Health            WAQFS and           National          Welfare         Sector
(66.7%)          (0.7%)           (0.7%)       (21.07.)                                      and Labour                            Moslem Affaira      Economy           Organization   (10.3o)
COMPUSORY                              I                I
ElentaD                                                                             H                                               H
Handicapped
Preparatory                       [Ii                                                El                                             1Cr
SECONDARY
General                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LI
Vocational                          b
Industrial                                                                                                                                                                                  E
CoVanerci al                                                                                                                                                                              ldti 
Agricultural                                                                                                                                                                               Industrial
.GR-U]nivaraity                                    [L                                                                                                       ]              [I i][
Teacher         College of                      Industrial                                        Social            College of        College of            Public
?t91ing           Nursing                        Training                                         Service            Nursing            Eharab          Admsin stration
Teacher
University                                                            [II
ADULT                                                                                               [l                                                     L]
OTHER                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D      L
TV and Radio                                                                                                                                                               Physical,    Handicapped
twith Jordan TV                                                                                                                                                             Cultural and                 9
Corporation)                                                                                                                                                               Social                       n
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Activlities



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
CENTRAL COMMITTEE                                                      | _                                       
OFC EDUATION
| PU.LIC RELATIONS                                              1151, S_1 .   __T_
X3 { E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l1 IN ESCO                                                                                                    h
,)B C.LTUF AL                                 
I GUIDANCE   |                      | A8~~~~~~~RGADNIZAIO
W Cl SCOUTS S  |                   Z ~~~~~~~~~~oE, G'VF0T |  
OIGIRLGUDE OF                                  15TUDENTS                RE    SIETRO                                                                                                IIIIEO
TIDILE AD        SMIAIOSOESIIE                 ISERVCELU      IO REEAIC I                  I      I lINC,         R ,NIO          CIOCL..                          IIJ 
AOMINISRRU.  TION OFNT ~ASSR             DCTIONA L
CINEROFLD       CERIFPSTE |RET                  SCIOLRIIP        EOLAD          RI IRISTTLEl
rm                 I          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~col
S MUASLIOMUNI       CATION          FOOR~~~~~IIATI,0  SRANES         SATSTC
UFLE                FSCNE                                           REODER     TINA DRECTORDS OFDSRCTAN OMMERRNORATEEAMER ASANK ONCROI
A: S3 E3 X 3 [t S3 b  LS31 -S3~~~~~~~~~~~~"'OL
. YO.T.                            A~~~~~~~~~~~~EISTUDRANNGISTTUETAD
GUIRDLCE     TEABRROMINO  EDTEIOADI                              TEARER
CIRIN           LIROUT &RASES                                                                     RMUNPIVEI                       SCITY
GCROL G-CROTOLS
RELATIONS  I'USLI EDCATION ALS  ECO.S0 ITICTSAND GVENRTS   ESTILIAKODIS sLOS  TE
SOUARCE:                                       AlA TTROENTS .NAST 0ANEDUCAIONRCMMAR



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM, 1973
5     4    3    6      7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14                     15   16   17            18   19   20   21
AGE                                                                                            I                       I l   l 
HOTEL TRAINING SCHOOL
INTAKE NOT_
BY SCHOOL
RURAL DEVELT CENTER
AGE         0
SEC COMMERCIAL        CERTIFICATION AND INSERVICE TEACHER
10    1     21                  TRAINING INSTITUTE
SEC. INDUSTRIAL         TEACHERS' TRAINING INSTITUTES
HIGHER COMMERCIAL INSTITUTE
VOCATIONAL AND          1    2E
10cArloNt ANO          INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
RADE TRAINING            1    2
SEC. AGRICULTURAL         POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES
COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS         SOCIAL WORK INSTITUTE
SEC. GENERAL         CHILD CARE & MIDWIFERY INSTITUTE
COMPULSORY CYCLE a
LITERARY         INSTITUTE (FACULTY) OF ENGINEERING
KINDERGARTEN                ELEMENTARY               PREPARATORY                                                    r-1  r-
ISHH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                          3 -71    3_4_ 5u   
SCIENTIFIC        FACULTY OF EDUCATION
SEC. RELIGIOUS (SLAMC         FACULTY OF NURSING
}{+~~~~~ P-  r3  r 45 
+   PREPARATORY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE
m   SECONDARY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE                                                                FACULTY OF SCIENCE
*   UNIVERSITY BACHELOR DEGREE
ASSISTANT NURSE SCHOOL      FACULTY OF COMMERCE & ECONOMIC r
D   EXISTING CLASSES                                                                                                                 >
IN THE PROCESS OF CREATION                                                                   SHRA  (ISLAMIC LAS COLLEG
(     IDA PROJECT INSTITUTIONS                                                                     FACULTY OF MEDICINE
2C}r -  l  r3n  r - 4 _r51_                     rr-X
World Ba,,k- 9049



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1972-73
Q.
a:           w
o o 0           ->
240   2 POPULATION IN AGE-GROUP   0                                                     541                          T      T      T      T    17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
z
w
FEMALE                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALE<Cce
SECON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DARY                                                             C E
3  w670                     i 70
OW    (2                  Z10W
ENROLL-                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENROLL-  em 0~  O  >_  e C
MENT                      E] STUDENT-ENROLLMEN                     IHR*NT                                                                  T                        O w            co0W~
240 17400                                 IN -                                                                                       541                        TTTTT
27438 19600                              ;                        r'I1i>>>-+>]                                                       1539406   1500              175%   635%    6%    3%    31%
662                                                                                                                                  1307
917                                                                                                                                  2253                          t        t       t*
SECONOARY
3362    16700                                                        I17647                                                                     189004 
13422   217400                                            '>il          :e:!i05il:kl.5j..i  j:05.iE::t0:!5&:Sil                        2620     261*l                             l   
34256   14000                                                                                                                         7452      19500             7.7%   31%   40%   21%   32%
4224    18000                                                                                                                         8442      20200 3  40
PREPARATORY
7717    18900                                                                                                                                                                       W 12126    20800
133 19600                                                                                                                         15394    21500              175%  63%    72%   52%   39%
10343~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
12761   20600                                                                                                                          19702    22400VRSASp 
ELEMENTARY
15359    21700                                                                                                                         21680    237004
19949    22900                                                                                                                         26200     2f t1
25678   24000270                                                                                                                                 31310% 1% 99                                  45
27019   25300
29125    26500..290                                                                                                                              325
30286    27800                          *.        -...
32            24            1 6            8             0             8             1 6           24             3 2           4 0
THOUSANDS
World Bank-9050
'ENROLLMENT EXCLUDING 29,000 STUDENTS OVERSEAS                                                                                                                                                                       c 



JORDAN
PROJECTED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS 1973-1985
Average
Sector               1973 Manpower Stock   1973 Manpower Stock    1985 Required   Net Demand   Annual Demand
Surviving to 1985 1'  Manpower Stock    1973-1985         1973-1985
(rounded figures)
1. Agriculture                          108,150                 71,400                150,600         79,200         6,600
2. Mining                                 3,600                  2,400                  7,200          4,800            400
3. Manufacturing                         23,370                  15,400                43, o00        28,000         2,350
4. Electricity and Water Supply           1,350                     coo                 3,600          2,700            250
5. Wholesale and Retail Trade            27,830                 18,400                 48,800         30,400         2,550
6. Construction                          30,790                 20,300                 51,000         30,700         2,550
7. Transport and Communications          18,550                 12,200                 16,100          3,900            300
8. Banking and Finance                    2,650                   1,800                 4,300           2,500           200
9. Community, Social and
Personal Services                    42,500                  28,000                 79,000         51,000         4,250
ECONOMY                           258,790                 170,800                404,000        233,200        19,450
1/  Survival coefficients allowing for mortality, retirements, net emigration, etc. were applied to the Jordanian
occupational structure in 1973.  Because of lack of data the coefficients used are not occupationally specific.
It was assumed that about one half of total net emigration (20,000 p.a.) would be from labor force already em-
ployed and one half from new entrants into the labor market, which is consistent with the opinion, widely held
in Jordan, that about one third of graduates either emigrate or do not return to the country.
Source: Department of Statistics; National Planning Council; Staff Estimates



JORDAN
PROJECTED MANPOWER REOUIREMENTS IN THE
HOTEL INDUSTRY 1974-1985
Average Annual Training Needs
1974        1974 Manpower            1980           Net Demand      1980 Manpower            1985           Net Demand                  1980-1985
Manpower    Stock Surviving          Manpower          1974-1980    Stock Surviving          Manpower          1980-1985                  (rouaded)
Stock        to 1980 I/         Stock Required 2.   (rounded)         to 1985 Il       Stock Required t/   (rounded)          Practice        Classroom
Training Only      Training    Total
1. Administration, Accounting
and Control                           188              118                  430               310               292                549                260              10              70          80
2. Reception and Front Office            132               83                  301               220               205                 384               180              20              30          50
3. Restaurant and Bar                    177              112                  405               290               275                 517               240               20             50          70
4. Kitchen                               223              140                  509               370               346                 649               300              40              50          90
5, Housekeeping and Laundry              318              201                  729               530               496                 930               430              120             10         130
6, Stores                                 17               11                   38                 30               26                  48                20                4              1           5
7. Utilities and Maintenance             142               89                  326               230               222                420                200              10              50          60
TOTAL                         1,197               754               2,735            Y 2,000            1,862               3,497           e 1,630              224            261         485
Source: Ministry of Tourism; Staff Estimates
1/ Estimated by assuming an attrition rate of 8 percent p.a., allowing for deaths, retirements, emigration, transfers to other sectors, etc.  No allowance was made for internal
transfers between "departments":
2/ Staff estimate based on Ministry of Tourism projections of number of hotel beds.
3/ It was assumed that employment growth after 1980 would level off at 5%p.a.
4/ Estimated by assuming that about 1/3 of new graduates will emigrate. Distribution between different types of training is based on detailed analysis of presumed educational
requirements of staff presently employed at the Jordan Intercontinental Hotel.



JORDAN
Enroll.ents. Graduates and Teachers
B  Level and Type of Eduction. 192;73
E N R O L L M E N T                                                           G R A D U A T E S                                                           E A CH E R S
Other                                                *h                      Other -.                                                                      Other                                              Stwid-t:Te-rher
M.O.E.      Ministries       UNRWA       Private       Total      Girls 8       0 M       MO intr ies      UNRWA      Private       Total       Girll      M.O.E,      Mi  v etri es     UNRWA      p-- r      i e  TrLal        RItiE
Kinder-arten                      -              134           .         13,755      13,889        42          _              _              _a,                                  _   |                     2                         361          363            38.3
Conpul-ory Cycle
Eleneutery                 225 707          2,118         75 ,190     23 ,096    326 ,111       45       23 689            250           7,979       1,982       33 ,900      44         5 ,998         50            1,746         .(17      8 501            38.4
rrparatory                  12,269            738         20,312       4,724       78,043       39       153577            188          4,911          422      23,098        37        2,635           29              698         264       3,626            21.5
Total                      277,976          2,856         9     5.5_502           404,154-      44             |           438         12.890        4,404       56.998       40         8,5j33          79     _       _         1.071      12,127
ietonder1 
General                     24, 974           648                      5,363       30,985       32         9,987           145             _         3,800       13,932       29         1,055          31               .          259       1,345            23.0
Gn,enerniol                  1,621            ,              -              9       1,630       50           249            -              _            89          338       38            79            -                           1           80           20.4
Industrial                     895            _              551            9       1,455        4           215            _              _            45          260        0            65            _               59          1          125           11.6
AgrIcutur-l                     386                          -              -         366         0           82            -                            12          94         0           27            -                         .27                         13.6
Nur-ing                         -             113                    -                113       84           -              17                           1           17      100                         S                                       27           222.6
Tot.1                       27,856            761            551        5,38       34,549       32        10,533           162                       3,946       14,641       29         1.226          36                59        261       1.582
Higher
Uni-rsity                                                    -          3,589       3,589       30           -              -                          781          781       30           -              -              _          145          145           24.7
Teacher Training              1,056           _              491          696       2,243       30           365            _              241         252          858       29            58            _               36         12          106           21.2
Engineer 0g                       95          _              118            -         213        0            39            -               70         -            109        0             7            -                9                      16            13.3
SociulServices                  -              61            -              .          61       34           .              31             -           .             31       32           .              6              .          _              6            10.2
StatistGci                     _               20            _              _          20        0                                         _20                       20        0                          I 1                                      1           20.0
N-urain                         _             262            .              .         262      100                          5 S9                                     5 .  59  100                        13         .               _             13            20.2
Midsaifery                      _               23           _              _           23     100                          12             -            .            12      109                          I 5            .                         5             4.6
Sharia (lolseic La-)            -              35            -                         35        O           .              .                                                 - _  _       _                                                       2            17.5
Coutnorrtsl                     -             -              158            -         158       43                          _               71         -             71       40           _                              15        -             15            10.5
Total .                                       401            767       4285         6, 604      31           404            n       122    382    1,1033          1.941       31            65           27      _        60        157    _         309-
Seeriel Ediscatton                _             414            -             62         476       45           _-                                                               -                          34                           6           40            11.9
GRAND TOTAL                 306,983         4.566         96.820      51.303    459.672         43                         722          13272        9383        73,580       37        9.824          170            2 563       1.856      14,421
Swurcel   CoApilad fcm  data in tho
MC.latry of Ed.cat.ot . Itarloticat
Yeorbook, 1972.73.



JORDAN
Actual and Projected Enrollments, 1973 - 1985
Level              Sex      1972/73   1973/74   1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
Elementary              M      178,695   186,560   192,920    197,980    203,030    207,970    213,930    219,640    225,140    230,540    235,890    241,200    246,470
F      147,416   157,140   165,060    170,950    175,850    180,270    185,530    191,140    196,790    202,410    207,980    213,520    219,010
T      326,111   343,700   357,980    368,930    378,880    388,240    399,4,60    410,780    421,930    432,950    443,870    454,720    465,480
Preparatory             M       47,282    49,790    54,380        60,310      66,230      71,810      75,240      78,970      82,700      85,940      89,610       92,940     96,910
F       30,821    33,610    38,250        45,200      52,710      59,850      64,660      68,460      71,600      74,120      77,340      80,550      84,400
T       78,103    83,400    92,630    105,510    118,940    131,660    139,900    147,430    154,300    160,060    166,950    173,490    181,310
Secondary              M        20,971    21,830    22,400        22,810      22,890      23,630      25,120      26,610      27,870      28,290      28,540      29,390      30,540
Academic               F       10,014    11,870    13,580        14,750      15,310      16,370      18,510      21,170      23,290      24,460      24,910       25,620     26,510
T       30,985    33,700    35,980        37,560      38,200      40,000      43,630      47,780      51,160      52,750      53,450      55,010      57,050
Secondary              M         2,570      2,610      2,960       3,450       4,270       5,160       6,240       7,380       8,550       9,560      10,310      10,980      11,430
Vocational            F            994     1,150      1,570       2,030       2,600       3,290       4,240       5,540       6,590       7,510       8,020        8,490      8,810
T        3,564      3,760      4,530       5,480       6,870       8,450      10,480      12,920      15,140      17,070      18,330      19,470      20,240
Post-Secondary          M         2,006      2,125     2,125       2,130       3,240       3,240       3,600       3,600       3,600        3,600       3,600       3,600      3,600
Non-University        F         1,009      1,040      1,070       1,100       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480       1,480
T        3,015      3,165      3,195       3,230       4,720       4,720       5,080       5,080       5,080       5,080       5,080       5;080       5,080         m
University              M         2,501      2,495     2,730       3,135       3,480        3,750       3,990       4,000      4,000       4,000       4,000        4,000       4,000         a,
F        1,088      1,000      1,120       1,225       1,310       1,360       1,400       1,400       1,400        1,400       1,400      1,400        1,400
T        3,589      3,495      3,850       4,360       4,790       5,110       5,390       5,400       5,400       5,400       5,400       5,400       5,400
Source: Ministry of Education; Staff Estimates.



JORDAN
TOTAL EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES BY SOURCES 1968-1973
(JD '000)
Average Annual
1968 (actual)          1973 (provisional.)          Growth Rate 1968-1973
5/
Sources                   Amount        7.         Amount         %          Nominal      Real Terms -
Ministry of Education 1/           5,310.3       61.6        7,490.6       56.1          7.2            - 0.3
Other Ministries                     564.6        6.6          668.3        5.0          3.4            - 4.1
Total Central Government           5,874,9       68.2        8,158.9       61.1          6.8            - 0.7
Local Authorities 2/                 305,6        3.5          516.5        3.9         11.0            + 3.5
University of Jordan 2/              779.5        9.0        1,799.0       13.4         18.0            +10.5
Total Public Expenditure           6,960.0      80.7        10,474.4       78.4          8.5            + 1.0
Private Expenditures -               479.5        5.6          950.0        7.1         15.0            + 7.5
Total National Expenditure         7,439.5       86.3       11,424.4       85.5          9.0            + 1.5
UNRWA 4/                           1,176.4       13.7        1,930.0       14.5         10.4            + 2.9          Z
Total Domestic Expenditure                     100.0        13,354.4      100.0          9.0            + 1.5
Source: Ministry of Education; Sta-ff Estimates..
1/ Includes payments of salaries for teachers and rentals in the West Bank.
2/ Excluding government grants.
3/ Mission estimate.
4/ Estimated by the mission on a pro-rata basis; East Bank only; excluding subsidies and fellowships.
5/ Deflated by using the Amman cost of living index.



luisT?Y orDxtCATt0R
RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
BY EDUCATIONAL LEVELS AND NATURE OF EXPENSE. 1973
(in thousands JD)
Recurrent Expenditures                                                                     Capital Expenditures
Nature of
Expense                                                Transport                                     Maintenance,                                               Contribution  to
Level                                 Salaries &       Materials             Services &                      Grants &        Repairs &                     Land &        Equipment   School Buildings                    GRAND
of Education                        Other Benefits   & Supply    Rents   Utilities    Scholarships   Subsidies   Other Services    TOTAL                  Buildings   & Furniture   in Rural Areas           TOTAL       TOTAL
Elementary, Preparatory
and Secondary Education                 4,985.0          29.0       268.0        17.5             -               -             27.0          5,326.5       253.0          111.0             10.0            374.0       5,700.5
Teacher Training                           121.0         63.0          6.1        4.9             -             2.5              5.7            203.2         31.0           9.0              -               40.0         243.2
Vocational Education                        63.0         58.0          -          3.2             -               -              2.3            126.5       150.0           32.0              -              182.0         308.5
Agricultural Education                      37.5         46.0          0.1        1.3             -               -              2.0             86.9          -             4.0              -                4.0          90.9
Literacy and Adult Education                 -            2.0          -          0.3             -            22.0              0.1             24.4          _-                                              -            24.4
Textbooks                                    7.0        275.0          2.0        1.3             -             9.5              0.3            295.1          -             _                _                _           295.1
Scholarships                                 -            -            -         56.0          123.3              -               -             179.3          _      -               -                        -          179.3
Administration & Other
Expenases                                515.6          17.7        23.2        38.0             -            45.5              5.7            645.7          -             3.0              -                3.0        648.7
Total Ministry of Education             5,729.1         490.7       299.4       122.5           123.3          79.5             43.1          6,887.6       434.0          159.0             10.0            603.0       7,490.6    I
Percentage Distribution                  83.2           7.1         4.3         1.8             1.8           1.2              0.6            100.0        72.0           26.4              1.6            100.0
Source: Budget Department, Budget Law for the Fiscal Year 1973



JORDAN
PROJECTION OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION 1973-1985
(JD '000, 1974 prices)
Projected Public
Additional Student   Estimated Unit Cost                  Total Investment                        Recurrent Expenditures
Places Required       Per Student Place                      Required                            on Education in 1985
1973-1985        (JD '000, 1974 prices)              Amount                                     Amount
(JD '000, 1974 prices)   Percentages   (JD '000, 1974 prices)   Percentages
1. Primary                       134,000                   95                        12,730                 29.5                8,600                 37.4
2. Preparatory                    72,000                   155                       11,160                 26.0                 5,130                22.3
3. General Secondary              17,000                  345                         5,865                 13.7                2,300                 10.0
4. Vocational                      10,200                  850                        8,670                 20.2                 1,580                 6.9
5. University                       1,800               1,575                         2,835                  6.6                2,500                 10.9
6. Other Post-Secondary            2,000                  850                         1,700                  4.0                1,100                  4.8
7. Administration                   n.a.                 n.a.                          n.a.                n.a.                 1.770                  7.7
TOTAL                                                                            42,960                100.0                22,980                100.0
lZ
z
Annual Average                                                                              x
1973-1985:   JD 3.58 million  (US$ 11.36 million)                                        ID
Source: Staff Estimates.



JORDAN
Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors
in Project Institutions
Total Annual                                  Number of           Use Factors
Course       Enrollment    Annual   Pupil/Teacher    Weekly                            Laboratories/
Institution              Number               Level                Length                        Output         Ratio           Periods     Classrooms    Workshops
1.  Irbid Polytechnic                  1      Post-secondary                2 years             240           110            12             40           60 - 75        50 - 85
2.  Aqaba Training Complex             1      Secondary                     modular             630           400            11             40              75              63
3.  Hotel Training School              1      Secondary and                 2 months            460           300            24           30 - 36           75           55 - 75
Post-secondary                to 2 yrs.
4.  Rural Development                  1      Preparatory         (a.m.)        -              n.a.          1000            20              18              -
Center                                   Adult non-formal (p.m.)   modular                                               20
5.  Comprehensive
Secondary Schools                 3      Secondary                      3 yrs.           6,300         1,900             21             36             75           72 - 88
6.  Science Laboratories               5      Preparatory and                   -              n.a.          n.a.            20              36              -           70 - 80
(extensions)                             Secondary
7.  Craft Centers for Girls            4      Preparatory and                   -              n.a.          n.a.            20             36               -           75 - 85
(extensions)                             Secondary
8.  Pre-vocational Workshops           7      Preparatory and                   -              n.a.          n.a.            20              36              -           75 - 85       o
for Boys (extensions)                    Secondary
n.a.   - not applicable



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
JORDAN
CURRICULA FOR PPOJECT INSTITUTIONS
COMPREHENSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Subjects                               First Year              Second Year               Third Year
I.  Common Core Courses                     A    S    C    V        A    S    C    V         A    S    C    V
Islamic culture                        -    2    2    2         -    2    2    2         -    2    2    2
Arabic language                        -    4    4    4         -    3    3    3         -    3    3    3
English language                       -    4    4    4         -    3    3    3         -    3    3    3
Social science                         -    2    2    2         -    2    2    2         -    1    1    1
General mathematics                    3    -    3    3         2    -    2    2         2    -    2    2
General science -theory                2    -    2    2         1    -    1    1         1    -    1    1
-practical           2    -    2    2         1    -    1    1         1    -    1    1
Introductory commerce -theory          2    2    -    2         1    1    -    1         1    1    -    I
-practical   1    1    -    1          1    1    -    1         1    1    -    1
Pre-vocational crafts -theory          1    1    1    -         1    1    1    -         1    1    1    -
-practical   2    2    2    -          1    1    1    -         1    1    1    -
Physical education                     2    2    2    2         2    2    2    2         2    2    2    2
Total Common                     15   20   24   24       10   16   18   18        10   15   17   17
II. Specialized Courses
Islamic culture & religion             3    -    -    -         3    -    -    -         3    -    -    -
Arabic language & literature           6    -    -    -         8    -    -    -         8    -    -    -
English language & literature          6    -    -    -         8    -    -    -         8    -    -    -
Social science & economics             5    -    -    -         5    -    -    -         5    -    -    -
20    -    -    -       24    -    -    -        24    -    -    -
Mathematics                             -    6    -    -        -    7    -    -         -    7    -    -
Physics  -theory                       -    3    -    -         -    3    -    -         -    2
-practical                   -    1    -    -         -    I    -    -         -    2    -    -
Biology  -theory                       -    1    -    -         -    2    -    -         -    2    -    -
-practical                   -    1    -    -         -    1    -    -         -    1    -    -
Chemistry  -theory                     -    2    -    -         -    2    -    -         -    3    -    -
-practical                 -    1    -    -        -    2    -    -          -    2    -    -
-   15    -    -        -   18    -    -         -   19    -    -
Commerce  -theory                      -    -    7    -         -    -   10    -         -    -   11    -
-practical                  -    -    4    -         -    -    6    -         -    -    6    -
-    -   11    -        -    -   16    -         -    -   17    -
Industrial arts/   -theory             -    -    -    3                          4       -    -    -    5
Home economics       -practical        -    -    -    8                         12       -    -    -   12
_    _    -   11                        16       -    -    -   17
III.  Elective Courses                        1    1    1    1         2    2    2    2         2    2    2    2
Total Periods per Week                     36   36   36   36        36   36   36   36        36   36   36   36
A = Arts      S = Science        C = Commerce       V = Vocational



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
IRBID POLYTECHNIC
Industrial Chemistry    Food Technology    Textile Technology
First     Second       First    Second       First     Second
Subjects                      Year       Year        Year       Year        Year       Year
General:  religion, Arabic, English               4           4           4          4          4          4
Basic Sciences: mathematics, physics,
chemistry                       8           -          10         -          12          4
Technical Drawing                                 4           2           4          2           2         2
Technology:  (1) industrial chemistry            12
(2) petrochemistry, minerals
processing, chemical
manufacture                                 6
(1) food technology                                        12
(2) food manufacture, fruit
and vegetable processing                                         16
(1) & (2) textile technology                                                     10         12
Practicals                                       12          28          10         18          12        18
Total                       40         40          40         40          40         40
AQABA TRAINING COMPLEX
Type of Training                  Classroom       Laboratory       Shop       Total
Wide-Range specialist workers
(i) initial full-time training                6               6             28        40
(ii) subsequent part-time training             4               2              -          6
(iii) final full-time training                  6               6             28         40
Narrow-Range specialist workers                  6               6             28         40
Basic training                                   4               4             32         40
Basic technology instruction                    10               5              -         15



HOTEL TRAINING SCIIOOL
Courses
Administration,
Subjects:                              Accounting &         Reception       Food and       Cookery and       Housekeeping        Advanced         Tour
Control          Management       Beverage         Pastry                            Management       Guides
1st yr.  2nd yr.      1st    2nd       1st  2nd      1st      2nd
General subjects: geography,
history, Arabic                             2         2         2       2        5    2        2        2             -                -              -
Foreign languages: English,
French, German                              6         5         6       5        5    5        2        2             2                 6             4
Special subjects                            14         8        12       8       10    8        4        4             6               16             12
Office practice                              5         -         2       -        2    -         -        -            6                 5             2
Kitchen lab. work                            -         -         -       -        -    -       11        -             -                 -             -
Hotel practice                               3        15         8      15        8   15       11       22            16                 9            18
Total weekly Periods                      30        30        30      30       30   30       30       30            30               36             36
RURAL DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Level
Course -                                                           Basic             Advanced
Metal and machinery                                                  4                    4
Building and woodwork                                                4                    4
Home and house craft                                                 4                    4
Health and child care                                                4                    4
Commercial operations                                                4                    4
Functional literacy                                                 10                    -
w x
1/ Each course is discrete and non-formal and given as a module, except for functional literacy
which is also a pre-requisite for the advanced level of all courses.



ANNEX 12
--              -     -    -    - -        -    -    -    -     -    -    -    --      -    -     -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    - -        --      -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    --      -    -    -     -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    --      -    -     -    -    -     -    -    -    -- -         -    --      -    -     -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -     - -
K           --      -     -    -    -    --      -    -     -    -    -    --      -    - -        -    --      -    -    -    -    -     --      -    -    -    -    --      -     -    -    -    -     -- -         -    -    -    -              -__              _ __ ---                 ---        --      ---       --      ---       --      -----           ---       ---        --     ---        --      ---       --      --- --
--                    -     -          -              --     -     -    -    -     -    -    -    --      -    -    -    -     -    -    -                                              -    --                                           -    -    -    -    -     --      - -       -    -    -    -     -    --      -    -    -    -     -    -    -
-------                        -----            
-----------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                       11111-----
-     - --- ---       ---       ---        ---       ---       ---        ---       ---        --- --- ---                    ---       ---        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---- --             ---        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---       ---       ---        ---       --l        --- ---             ---        ---       ---        ---       ---       ---        ---
~f  0000                                         ~0)                                                                                     -'--                                                                                         o
j i 0 . 0   0rCCfl~~~~~~~C~~C~~4                         ~~a ,;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                      Y        V~~~~~     ~
a                                                                                  00                             0 
N                    a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.M



JORDAN
PROJECT COSTS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(in JD and US$'Ooo; US$1O0 0 JD 0.31')
J.D. '000                           US$ tooo                    ' of
Local     Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign       Total        Total
1. Physical Facilities:
1.1 Civil wor's                         1,087.3    1,087.3    2,174.6    3,41.7    3,451.7    6,903.4              40of
(Buildings/site development)
1.2 Furniture                              ll.z.      218.8       231.3        36.5       694.6       731.1          4;N
1.3 Equipment                              36.5       692.7       729.2       1.158    2,199.1    2,314.9
Sub-total of 1                     1,13c.3    1,998.8    3s134e1    31fh  .0    61345.4    9,949.4              57_f
2. Services:
2.1 Professional Services                  :1.9       128.1       183-O       174.3       )476.7      581.0          37
2.2 Project Administration                 37.8         -          37.8       12090        -          120.0          1
2.3 Technical Assistance                   62.2       248.8       311.0       197 5       789.8       987.3          6
Sub-total of 2                        1 54.9      376.9       43l.8      491.8    i196.?    1103 o
3. Contingencies:
(Physical and Price Increase)             683.2    1,147.6    1,30.8    263    3,643.2    5,812.5                   33" x
4. Total Project Cost
(1 + 2 and 3)                          1,973.4    3,523.3    5,496.7    6             16. 1 18h'  17450.2         100



JORDAN
Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions /
(As of' December, 197h)
Similar Bank/IDA
Cost per Student (in US $)          Financed Projects
Gross    Building .
Area     Cost/W2                                                  Median
per      Gross                                                    Gross Area
Student  Area                                                     per Student
_pe  of Facilities            (m2)    (US$)      -ildi   Furniture E_ ui_r__ment  Total   _
L  Academic &^ Communal Facilities
Irbid Polytechnic                   1h.0      170       2,330       -b0        1,790 go,h0o              9.0
Aqaba Training Complex               9-9      180       1,830       130        1,990     3,920          122
Hotel Training School                5j1    170           350        90          260     1,>00          10.1
Ghor Riural Development. Center     12.0      150       1,870       180        15110     3,160           .n.a.
Comprehensive Secondary
Schools                            5.2     180          930)      100          140     1,173           5.9
2, Boarding Facilities
Aqaba Training Complex               5.5      160         890        90           _         980          8.1
3. Staff Housing
Ghor Rural Development Center    120.0        190      23,2.20       _            _     23,220         113.0
l/Professional fees and contingencies are not included.



JORDAN
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(JD and USS '000: US$1.00 - J.D. 0.315)
Civil Works           Furniture    n         oui Foeint         Professio.al Services    Project Administration    Technical Assistance                Sub Total                    TOTAL
Local       Foreiso    LoCal       Foreigo    Loc.l      Foreign    Local          Foreign       Local         Foreign       Local       Foreign      Local         Foreig.      JD                US$
Percentage of Local and Foreign:          50%          502.        57.        95%         5%         95%        30%           70%         100/             Nil          20%.         80%.       (35%)         (65%)
1. base Line Cost                in JD      1,087.3    1,087.3       11.5       218.8       36.5       692.7       54.9         128.1          37.8            _           62.2        248.8       1,290.2      2,375.7      3,665.9            -
(as of Decenber 1974)         in USS    3,451.7    3,451.7        36,5       694.6      115,8    2,199.1       174.3         406.7        120.0             -          197.5        789.8       4,095.8      7,541.9                    11,637.7
2. Unforeseen Physical           in %        1004                    I0.        10%        Nil         10%        10%           10%         Nil              Nil          Nil          Nil         (9%)           (97)
Increases                     in JD        108.7       108.7       1.2        21.9        _          69.3        5.5          12.8         -                -            -            -           115.4        212.7        32.1             -
in us$       345.1       345.1       3.8       69.5        _         219.9       17.5          40.6          _               _            _            _            366.4        675.1                     1,041.5
3. SNb Total (1 + 2)             in JD      1,196.0    1,196.0       12.7       240.7       36.5       762.0       60.4         140.9          37.8            _           62.2        248.8       1,405.6       2,588.4     3,994.0
in us$    3,796.8    3,796.8       40.3       764.1       115.8    2,419.0      191.8         447.3         120.0            _          197.5        789.8        4,462.2      8,217.0         .          12,679.2
4. Price Increase                in %        42%          42%        31%         31%        31%         31%        377.          377.          28%            Nil          287.         287.       (401)          (36Y)
in JD        502.3       502.3       3.9        74.6       11.3      236.2       22.3           52.1         10.6            -           17.4          69.7         567.8        934.9      1,502.7           -
in U8$    1,594.7    1,594.7        12.5      236.9        35.9       749.9      70.9          165.5         33.6            -           55.3        221.1        1,802.9      2,968.1         .           4,771.0
5. Total Contingencies           in JD        611.0       611.0       5.1        96.5       11.3       305.5       27.8          64.9          10.6            -           17.4         69.7         683.2       1,147.6      1,830.8           -
(2 + 4)                       in US0$    1939.8    1,939.         16.3       306.4       35.9       969.8       88.4         206,1         33.6             -           55.3        221.1       2.169,      33 643.2         -           5.812,5
TOTAL PROJECT COST            in JD      1,698.3    1,698.3       16.6       315.3       47.8       998.2       82.7         193.0         48.4             _           79.6        318.5      .1,973.4      3,523.3      5.496.7            _
(including contingencies)   in us$    5,391.5    5,391.5          52.8    1,001.0       151.7    3,168.9       262.7         612.8        153.6             -          252.8     1,010.9        6,265.1    11,185.1                     17,450.2      >
_          . ~=                           -,    _                                                -- -                                    .   _=           



ANNEX 16
JORDAN
FINANCIAL PLAN
(in millions)
Multilateral &
Government          IDA        Bilateral Sources    TOTAL
JD   US$    %   JD   US$    S  ~~~~~JD   US$    %   JD   US$
1. Civil Works
Local       1-55 4.90  50   -4 - l.   4.90  50
Foreign    0.72 2.30  23   0.82 2.60   27  -    -           -   1.54 4-90  50
Sub-Total  2.27 7.20  73   0.  2 .60   27  -    -           -              1.00 TOC
2. Furniture
Local       0.Cl 0.05   5    -    -       -                     O-.C  0.05   5
Foreign    0.14 0.43  45   0.15 0.48   50  -    -           -   0.29 0.91  95
Sub-Total         o               01   3.      -    -       -     3  0.96 TOC
3. Equipment
Local       0.c5 0.15   5           -       -  -                0.05 0.15   5
Foreign    0.27 0.86  28   o.63 2.02   67  - -                  0.90 2.88  95
Sub-Total  0.32 1.01  33   0    2.02 T    7   -    -        -   0.95 3.03 100
4. Professional
Services
Local      0.07 0.24  30    -    -        _   -    _        -   0.07 0.2),  30
Foreign    0.1. 0.31  39   0.08 0.2'    31  -    -                0.18 0.-56  70
Sub-Total  0.17 0.5   h9   oo.08 0.5   31  -    _          _   0.25 T8  100
5.  Pro*ject Ad-
ministration
Local        -    -    -    0.05 0.15  100       -          -   0.05 0.15 100
Foreign                       - -    - _  _    _                 -    -    -
Sub-Total   -    -    -         O 0.15  100         - _         0.05 0.15 TOC
6. Technical
Assistance
Local        -    -    -      -    -      -   o.o8 0.26  20   0.08 0.26  20
Foreign      -                                0.32 1.01  80   0.32 1.01  80
Sub-Total   -    -    -       -    -      -.                 1.27 100 1.2 7   iOO
Sub-tot.q] (including price increases)
Local       1.68 5.34  33   0.05 0.15    1  o.o8 0.26   2   1.81 5.75  36
Forei       1.2,  3.90  ?5   1.68 5.      33  0.32 1.01   6   3.2310.26  64
Sub-Total  2.91 9.24         1.73   '0  37.4  0   1.27          T100 0
Physical Contingencies
Local      0.'7 0.5   36    -    -        -   -    -        -   0.17 0.52  36
Foreign    0.13 0.12  29   0.16 o.50o                       -   0.29 0.92  64
Sub-Total   0.30        7    0 .6  0      35  -    -        -   0.46 1.4  loo
Total Project Co-'
Local       1.8'  5.86  33    .0$ 01$      1  0.08 0.265   2   1.8 6.27  3fi
Foreign    1.' 6.32.         1. 84    $   33 o       2 1.01   6   2tL 1L.18, 6_
TOTAL       3.21 10.18  58   1.89 6.00   34  0.14o 1.27   8   5.50 17.4$5 100



4 loj   1   8  8  >                                  o8                        lol      W  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  4
| -1 88  )  PN 8o 
! 1     8  > N  s | g  ; t     o                0 o8                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1>llX
l   1  8  oO  0  X  s  0  g   t   8  8          o8 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
!  s  8  E  ,  |  >  |  W         E         8  o8              8  g                          1>l      c 0
E    3EmgEgtUEoI I 
>|~~~~~~0                                                                                                 0- 4    gt Rg0 | og                 
lo  s  g  E   g  s  g  g   S  s  g  g  S     S g  g                     Oo o          = -~~~~~~~~~~'    0.
^1  g  g  g   |  $  |  t   |  X  g  g   t      3t g  S                    8  8   i       XcQ~~~~~~444  0.
g       t  4 +.            0    40 o   N                               +  0     F         
1~~ ~~~ >            , S     On^O+i                                                 ,l1   
>4{4                                        
L~~~~~~~0                                0 1                 0,                      0                 
F                               _   ..             sC    -       *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
,~~~~~~~~~~~                                        -                       0           3<              !  0000



ANNEX 18
JORDAN
ESTIMATED SCHEDUIE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ Million)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Semester          Disbursements         Disbursements              Elalance
First Year:             Amount                Amount                   Amount
1                  0.00                  0.00                     6.oo
2                  003                  0.03                     5*97
Second Year:
3                   0.6                  0.09                     5.91
4                   0.17                  0.26                    5.74
Third Year:
5                   o.65                 0.91                     5.09
6                   1.01                 1.92                     4.o8
Fourth Year:
7                   1.38                 3.30                     2.70
8                  1.32                  4.62                     1.38
Fifth Year:
9                  0.72                  5.34                     0,66
10                  o.60                  5.9h                     0.06
Sixth Year:
'11                 0.06                  6.0o                     0.00
*
Beginning from date of signature.



IBRD 11173
360                                                                                                                 SEPTEMBER 1974
S <   s  To ;Jaretl;   _         \    o Da.rwcosS   Y    R  I A
y                       1      ~~~~~N-rh S--h         ,_         . .       i
JI  X  a6S)                             i            -t          Zraj
320                                                                                    -f / Sat \                                                                                                             32-
I   /  S  ~J      El Blro    9             5)            Y  7iSOt ah-                                                   p El A-rq
T, Grw.    /          S                      T9 
SAU DI 
A RAB I A
JORDAN
(           RaboaC                       / 
S\ Kaf    SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
COMPREHENSIVESECONDARYSCHOOLS (AMMAN)
/                   \                                                                        ...         POLYTECHNIC ANO TRADE TRAIN NG LENTER MARAI
- S   tf  X TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE (SALT)
laNIehf                                                                                                AGRICULTURAL TEACHER TRA NING EXTENSION (SHAUBAK)
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Q"   J-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~VOCATIONAL ANT TECHNICAL EDUCAT SN
/If                                           H- c;   \  /2t   : 0 Qa' e JMIDDLE GHOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT CENTER, DE'R ALLAH
COMPREHENSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOLS
|   f        / i/                                                                                                                  SCIENCE LABORATORIES (EXTENSIONS)
CRAFT CENTERS FOR GIRLS (EXTENSIONSI
SC                                                                                                                                  E 1S   PRE-VOCATIDNAL WORKSHOPS FURBO fS (EXTENSIONS)
| )         /                                       |o                                                                     CO          CIT ES, TOWNS AND V LLAGES
I_ i  It  ,  RNAT ONAL HIGHWAYS
-    SECDNO CLASS ROADS
- - - |1  __  ____  OTHER ROADS
E Wad -us- ~sc 1l El J-Er  + + + RAILWAYS
/WADIS
MUOFLATS ANT WAD BEDS
)                          >/          \         abvo                                                                      OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
v.  .----       TRUCE LINE 1948
/C0                                              /                                                               - -  - -    IEBNTFRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     30 1
N Y AI I A.
\   aoOEa/ ErEAnana    .f;->I ,                     A 
Aq2ba   :  T r    20    30    4D  S r    6r    7rD      /                                                9,             \ ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J C R D A I  >
r                                   K~~~~~~~~             ~~                          ~~ILO.ETERS  /                                                          /          ,
MILES
IS    SB    SO    SC  SO    A 40sa                      I                    .                                               _STS AU            A
o   ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~                  /                                                                 ARA B  s        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SAu DI  ARAE IA
/ItSr ,.S .US',C  .r. .C.'   , - I   REPUBLIC
650                                    .5 ...005..'.....    I'O                EGYPFT



