Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4261
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CREDIT 534-JO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
November 1982
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
DOP                  Directorate of Projact Implementation
and School Buildings
HTS                  Hotel training school
IDA                  International Development Association
ILO                  International Labor Organization
MOE                  Ministry of Education
MPW                  Ministry of Public Works
NPC                  National Planning Council
ODA                  Overseas Development Agency of the
United Kingdom, originally Overseas
Development Ministry (ODM)
PCR                  Project completion report
RDC                  Rural development center
SAR                  Staff appraisal report
TA                   Technical assistance
TTC                  Trade training center
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO               United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN SECOND FDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 534-JO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
PREFACE .....................................                                                     i
BASIC DATA SHEET .....................................                                           ii
HIGHLIGHTS .....................................                                                 iv
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS                                                                          v
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................1
II.  PROJECT  BACKGROUND  ...........................................                                   1 
Socio-economic  Setting ...........................................    1
Education  and  Training  Development ...............................    2
Project  Formulation ...........................................                                  3
Project  Objectives ...........................................                                   4
Project Design ...........................................                                        5
III.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................    7
Project Management ...........................................                                    7
Project Unit ...........................................                                       7
Architectural  Consultants ......................................    8
Physical  Implementation ..........................................    9
Sites ...........................................                                              9
Design ...........................................                                            10
Construction ...........................................                                      10
Quality ...........................................                                           12
Equipment  and  Furniture ..........................................   12
Maintenance ...........................................                                          14
Implementation  of Software  Inputs ................................   14
Curriculum  Development .........................................   14
Teachers ...........................................                                          17
Technical  Assistance ...........................................  17
Covenants ...........................................                                            19
IDA  Performance ...........................................                                     IQ



Page No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................................  19
Capital Costs ....................................................  19
Disbursements ....................................................  21
V. PROJECT OPERATING OUTPIJT AND OIJTCOMES ............................  22
External Productivity Outcomes ...................................  22
Enrollments ......................................................  22
Curricula ........................................................  23
Educational Building Survey ......................................  23
Liaison with Industry ............................................  23
Teachers .........................................................  24
Unit Capital Costs ...............................................  24
ANNEXES
1.    Planned and Actual Implementation and Disbursements ..............  25
2.    Project Physical Facilities ......................................  26
3.    Oualifications of Staff and Student/Staff Ratios .................  27
4.    Compliance with Credit Covenants .................................  28
5.         Unit   Capital   Costs   ..............................................                                                          30
6.    Project Costs ....................................................  31
7.         Schedule of Disbursements ........................................  32
S.         Technical Assistance .............................................  33
ATTACHMENT:  COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                                                                         41



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN SECONT EDUICATION PROJECT
(Credit 534-JO)
PPEFACE
This report is a project performance review of the second education
project in Jordan (Credit 534-JO) for which a credit of IJS$6.0 million was
approved on March 4, 1075. The original closing date was December 31, ;9S1.
The final disbursement was made on August 11, 1982.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) attached was prepared following a
field visit by EMENA education staff in March 1q82.
The draft report was sent to the representatives of the Borrower for
comments. Borrower comments have been incorporated in the text of the report.



I                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - BASIC DATA SHEET
JORDAN SECOND FDUTCATION PROJECT
(Credit 536-JO)
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Item                                               Expectation             Actual
Total project costs (ItS$ million)                     17.45                34.90
Overrun ()                                               -                 100
Credit amount (IJS$ million)                            6.0                  6.0
Disbursed                                               6.0                  6.0
Cancelled                                                _
Date physical components completed                     12/79                6/82
Months since Credit signing                            57                   87
Proportion comnleted by above date (X)                100                   40
Proportion of time overrun ()                            -                  53
Institutional performance                                                good
Other Project Data
Ttem                           Original Plan          Revisions          Actual
First mention in files              -                                     1/17/73
Government's application            -                                        -
Negotiations                     1/16/75                                  1/16/75
Board approval                   3/ 4/75                                  3/ 4/75
Credit Agreement date            3/12/75                                  3/12/75
Effectiveness date               6/16/75                                  6/ 2/75
Closing date                    12/31/81                                  8/11/82
Borrower                   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Executing agency           Project Unit, Ministry of Education
Fiscal year of borrower  January 1 - December 31
Follow-up project name   Third Education Project   Fourth Education Project
Loan number              1781-JO                     2068-JO
Amount (US* million)   19.0                          25.0
Loan Agreement date    1/21/80                       1/20/82



I                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                               I



- ii) -
Mission Data
Sent   Month/   No. of        No. of                 Date of
Item                       By      Year    Weeks         Persons*   Manweeks  Report
Preidentification           IDA       12/72    0.4          2         0.8       2/I s73
Identification           TJNESCO    4-5/73    2.5           4        10.0      11/  /73
Reconnaissance              IDA        3/74    1.0          2         2.0       4/30/74
Preparation/appraisal    IDA         5-6/74    4.0          7        28.0       2 10/75
Post-appraisal              IDA        2/75    O.9          1         0.9        ',21/75
Total                                                             41.7
Supervision I               IDA       12/75    0.5       A, B, C      1.5      12/29/75
Supervision II             IDA         8/76    0.7      A, C          1.4      10/14/76
Supervision III            IDA         7/77    0.6       A, C         1.2       8/25/77
Supervision IV             IDA      6-7/78    0.85    A, C            1.7       7/13/78
Supervision V              IDA    9-10/78    1.0        A, D          2.0      10/30/78
Supervision VI             IDA      2-3/79    0.6       A, B, D       1.8       3/19/79
Supervision VII            IDA    9-10/79    0.5        B, E          1.0      11/20/79
Supervision VIII           IDA        12/79    0.5      A             0.5       1/ 8/80
Supervision IX             IDA         2/80    0.2       B, F         0.4       3/13/80
Supervision X              IDA         5/80    0.6      A, E          1.2       6/10/80
Supervision XI             IDA         9/80    0.7      A, E          1.4      10/31/80
Supervision XII            IDA      1-2/81    0.5       A, C          1.0       3/ 6/81
Supervision XIII           IDA   11-12/81    0.4        A, E, C       1.2      12/30/81
Total                                                             16.3
Completion                  IDA        3/82    0.8       A, B, D      2.4       7/  /82
i A = architect; B = technical educator; C = general educator;
D = agrictultural educator; E = economist; F = facilities planner.
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (abbreviation): Jordanian Dinar (JD)
Year.
Appraisal year average (1974)    IJS$1.00 = JD 0.315
Intervening years average           US$1.00 = JD 0.316
Completion year average (1q82)   US$1.00 = JD 0.326
Comparison of Actual and Estimated Disbursements (uS$ Million)
FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Appraisal Estimate           0.03   0.26   1.92   4.62   5.94   6.00          -       -
Actual Disbursement           -     0.01   0.10   1.56   4.52   5.60   5.99   6.00
Actual as % of Estimate    -         3      5      34      76      93    100    100






-- iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
A credit of USt6.O million equivalent to assist in financing the
second education project in Jordan was approved and signed in March 1975
(Credit 534-JO). The project was estimated to be completed by December 1979
and to cost US$17.5 million. The project aimed at expanding and reinforcing
vocational and technical education, including education of adults, improving
relevance and quality of education in the secondary cycle and supporting
integrated rural development projects by a pilot scheme of non-formal basic
education. The credit financed civil works, furniture and equipment,
professional services and special allowances for project unit personnel.
Technical assistance costs were met by multilateral and bilateral assistance.
The project generally was satisfactorily implemented although for various
reasons physical implementation was delayed by as much as four years. As a
result of these delays and of increases in areas of the project institutions,
total project costs reached 1IS034.9 million or an overrun of 100% (PCR,
para. 4.02). The original closing date was December 31, 1981, and credit
disbursements were completed on August 11, 1982.
The impact of the project has been positive and it will contribute to
the expansion and reinforcement of vocational and technical education in
Jordan. The physical components of the project were well-executed and the
architectural designs well-conceived (PCR, paras. 3.11-3.18). The quality of
construction at all project institutions is good as is the quality of the
furniture and equipment supplied (PCR, para. 3.25). All major technical
assistance components were implemented. The Borrower commented that
qualitative evaluation of expert services and fellowship programs would help
plan better for such activities in future projects (PCR, para. 3.42).
Teachers in project institutions are well-qualified and there is a good
balance between newly trained and experienced teachers (PCR, para. 5.13).
Student/staff ratios are satisfactory.
Other points of special interest are;
(i) because of the effectiveness of the Directorate of Projects
(DOP) in implementation of this project, it was integrated with
the Directorate of School Buildings and Housing in the Ministry
of Education and as a result will be responsible for all school
buildings in Jordan (PCR, para. 3.02); and
(ii) the hotel training school is offering nationals training in
various hotel specializations to cater for the rapidly expanding
tourism industry in Jordan (PCR, paras. 3.32 and 5.04).



I



- v -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Introduction
i.       An IDA Credit for US$6.0 million was extended to Jordan in March 1975
to: (i) expand and reinforce vocational and technical education including
training of adults to produce the specialized skills needed for the
development of priority sectors of the economy; (ii) improve the relevance and
quality in both the lower and upper secondary cycles by replacing
uneconomically small, rented school buildings and providing schools with
adequate workshop and other teaching facilities; and (iii) support integrated
rural development projects in the Jordan Valley through provision of a pilot
scheme of non-formal basic education. The project would reinforce the pattern
of comprehensive and technical education financed under the first Credit
(Credit 285-JO) and extend this reforn to specializations and types of
education not included in that project.
ii.      The project provided for (i) the construction and equipping of one
polytechnic institute, one trade training center, one hotel training school,
one rural development center and three comprehensive secondary schools;
(ii) construction and equipping of extensions to 16 preparatory and secondary
schools (science laboratories, pre-vocational workshops for boys, and craft
workshops for girls); and (iii) related technical assistance.
iii.     An IDA completion mission assisted full-time by an appointed
Jordanian expert, was in Jordan during March 1982. The mission visited three
institutions dealing with technical and vocational training, one non-formal
basic education center, three comprehensive secondary schools and three
extensions to existing schools to examine physical facilities and software
components, and interviewed relevant personnel at the Ministry of Education
(MOE) and other government agencies, in addition to UNDP specialists in the
field.
Project Administration
iv.      The project was implemented by the MOE's Directorate of Projects
(DOP) which was created under the first education project (Credit 285-JO) and
supplemented under this project. The Credit covenant requiring that the DOP
be expanded and maintained was fulfilled but with a delay of about 20 months.
The Deputy Director was not appointed until February 1976, eleven months after
Credit signing. This late hiring of staff delayed early implementation of the
project (para. 3.01).
v.       During a recent reorganization of the MOE, and, in view of the DOP's
effectiveness in project implementation, the existing DOP was integrated with
the Directorate of School Buildings and Housing (para. 3.02). The director of
the DOP has been appointed to the new Directorate which will be responsible
for all school buildings in Jordan funded from either external sources or
under the Government's budget. New positions have been created including a
second deputy director for technical matters and an all-out effort is being
made to recruit qualified staff to complete the second project, implement the
third and fourth projects, prepare future projects, and maintain the
Government's school construction and maintenance programs.



- vi -
vi.      The DOP's success has been partly due to the work carried out by
several of its dedicated personnel, to its position as a Directorate in the
MOE with full power to act and to the strong backing of the MOE and the
National Planning Council (NPC) (para. 3.03). The DOP was not given authority
to submit withdrawal applications to IDA, however, until the third and fourth
projects.
vii.     Implementation targets set at appraisal were at the time considered
realistic in view of the DOP's experience under the first project and the
addition of personnel to the DOP under this project. Physical imnplementation
was delayed by as much as four years, however, following early delays in
selection of the architectural/engineering consultants, changes in the types
of spaces and areas required over those agreed at appraisal, and delays in
review of architectural designs by both the DOP and IDA. As a result
construction began up to 22 months behind appraisal estimates (para. 3.06).
Further delay occurred during the construction period at the sites of five of
the seven new project institutions due to a persistent lack of materials,
personnel and equipment at the sites and was further exacerbated by the
bankruptcy of the contractor for the five institutions when construction was
about half completed (paras. 3.09 and 3.14). The subsequent rebidding and
signing of new contracts contributed another six months delay with the result
that the polytechnic and three of the comprehensive schools were not scheduled
for final completion until May/June 1982. No extension of the December 31,
1981 closing date was necessary, however, as all Credit funds were by then
committed and the accounts were held open until August 11, 1982, only to
permit final disbursements.
Implementation of Physical Components
viii.    The physical components of the project were well-executed and the
architectural designs were well-conceived. The quality of construction at all
seven institutions was uniformly good (para. 3.18). Detailing of plans was
simple and clear, local structural systems were used, and the materials were
familiar to the contractors and readily available. The supervisory staff from
the consultant architect and the DOP were well-qualified and their continuity
was maintained.
ix.      The quality of both equipment and furniture supplied is good.  The
procured equipment is generally appropriate for the instructional courses in
terms of quantity, standards and specifications, although at the rural
development center some equipment seemed over-sophisticated for the type of
curriculum involved (para. 3.25). Minor problems have been identified, but
the MOE is taking the necessary measures to resolve them.
Costs
x.       The project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$17.45 million of
which US$11.18 million was in foreign exchange. The IDA credit of US$6.0



- vii -
million (35% of the total cost) was provided to finance construction of
physical components, purchase of furniture and equipment, professional
services and some local costs of the DOP. Multilateral and bilateral sources
were to contribute US$1.27 million (7%) for the technical assistance program.
The Government was to finance the remaining US$10.18 million (58%) of the
total. In fact, the final cost of the project was US$34.9 million, resulting
in a 100% overrun due to both cost increases caused by delays in execution of
the project and increases in building areas over those estimated at appraisal
(para. 4.02).
Educational Objectives
xi.      The project institutions were not operational until the 1980/81
academic year. Therefore, there are no graduates as yet from any program. It
is hoped that target enrollments and output from the project institutions may
be achieved in view of registered enrollments (para. 5.01).
xii.      The hotel training school, presently fully operational, is offering
to nationals, for the first time, the possibility of receiving training and
education in different specializations of hotel activities. This will help
the rapidly expanding tourism and catering industry in Jordan (paras. 3.32 and
5.04).
Technical Assistance
xiii.    In general, all major technical assistance (TA) requirements were
implemented in spite of problems encountered particularly in the early stages
of the project (para. 3.42).  The original plan called for 240 m/m of expert
services but the actual amount reached 257 m/m. The requirements for
fellowships were about 606 m/m but the implemented value reached 459 m/m or
75% of the planned figure. The implementation of technical assistance
encountered various difficulties as a consequence of financial constraints and
overcommitment of UNDP funds for Jordan. Eventually, the UNDP met all its
commitments for TA. Major difficulties encountered in the selection of
trainees were; (i) language problems; and (ii) recruiting candidates in
certain specialized fields. Thirty Jordanians benefited from the bilateral
assistance fellowships in various training specializations in different
countries (para. 3.42). The Borrower commented that the PCR did not evaluate
qualitatively the expert services and fellowship programs to help plan better
for such activities in future projects (para. 3.42 1/)
xiv.     Teachers in all project institutions in operation are well-qualified
and there is a good balance between newly trained and experienced teachers.
The student/staff ratios are good--8:1 for the Irbid polytechnic; 8;1 for the
Aqaba trade training center; 17:l for the hotel training school; and 18:1 for
the Irbid girls' comprehensive school (para. 5.13).
Conclusions
xv.      In general, the second education project has been implemented
satisfactorily. It will contribute to the expansion and reinforcement of
vocational and technical education in Jordan. The project institutions began
their operations at a critical period in Jordan's economic development, when
key sectors are experiencing effective demands for well-trained and
experienced manpower.



I



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     In accordance with Terms of Reference dated February 2, 1982, a
mission comprising Mr. Jorge E. Quintero (agricultural educator) and Ms. Ruth
Montague (architect) visited Jordan from March 1-16, 1982 to carry out a
project completion review of the second education project financed under
Credit 534-JO. The mission was assisted by Mr. F. Soheimat (technical
educator/consultant), who was nominated by the Jordanian Ministry of Education
to assist this mission in preparing the completion report.
1.02     The mission reviewed the actual implementation of the project against
the expected schedules and achievements set out at the time of appraisal in
1974. No evaluation of the graduates from the project institutions was
feasible, because only a few institutions have recently begun to operate.
1.03     The completion study was carried out through a review of records and
reports available in the Bank and in Jordan, by discussions with relevant
ministry officials at central and regional levels, and by visits to 10 out of
the 23 project institutions, during which extensive discussions were held
where possible with principals, staff and, to a limited extent, students.
1.04     The report focuses on the achievements attained in meeting the
objectives of the project to the extent that they could be assessed at this
early stage and the lessons learned from delays and problems encountered
during project implementation.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
2.01     At the time of appraisal, agriculture was the most important sector
of the economy, accounting for about one-sixth of GDP, 30% of total employment
and nearly one-third of commodity exports. The manufacturing and mining
sector, though small, was by far the most dynamic sector of the economy.
2.02     Population in the East Bank, estimated at about 1.8 million in 1973
(of which about 229,000 were Palestinian refugees living in camps and 90,000
were in nomadic Bedouin tribes), was growing at the high rate of 3.3% per
year. About 60% of the total population was below 21 years old and about 41%
of adults were illiterate. As a result of rapid urbanization, the percentage
of rural population had dropped from about 40% in 1961 to less than 30% in
1973. The employed labor force in 1973 represented only 20% of the total
population, with women comprising a very low percentage.
2.03     The labor market in Jordan was heavily conditioned by labor shortages
in the neighboring countries, particularly the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia,
which could offer higher salaries than those in Jordan. As a result of the
increased outflow of manpower, the rate of unemployment decreased from over 8%
in 1970 to less than 4% in 1973. On the other hand, emigration aggravated the
domestic shortage of skilled workers, which resulted in a rapid increase in
wage rates.



- 2 -
2.04     Projections of manpower requirements and training needs in Jordan
were difficult because of the lack of data, the uneven quality of available
information, and above all because of the rapidly escalating requirements of
the oil-rich, labor importing countries which were fuelled by major
infrastructure investments. A projection of average annual internal demand
for middle and high-level manpower during 1973-1985 was prepared by the
appraisal mission, based on a conservative interpretation of internationally
observed occupational trends. The projection identified shortages of
technicians from two-year post-secondary vocational education and in skilled
manual occupations from vocational training. Projections of manpower
requirements for the period 1973-1985 for civilian employment only, indicated
an average annual demand of 2,150 technicians and 7,000 skilled and
semi-skilled workers. These figures indicated that further significant
increases would be necessary in the output of technical manpower, particularly
at the skilled-worker level.
Education and Training Development
2.05     Formal education in Jordan is conducted by the Ministry of Education,
other ministries, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and various
private agencies. The MOE effectively determines curricula and oversees
instruction in all elementary (grades 1-6), lower secondary (grades 7-9),
upper secondary (grades 10-12), and post-secondary institutions (other than
the universities) and community colleges.
2.06     Elementary and lower secondary education were quantitatively well
developed. During 1965-1975 enrollments more than doubled and represented
104% and 63% of the respective age groups (including overage students).
Repeater rates were relatively low at 8% and 15%, with dropout rates of 3% and
11% at the elementary and lower secondary levels, respectively.
2.07     About 78% of students were at that time (1973) passing the public
lower secondary school certificate examination and a large majority of them
entered upper secondary education which was divided into separate academic and
vocational schools; the latter were sub-divided into commercial, industrial,
agricultural and nursing education. Since 1968/69, enrollment at the upper
secondary level increased by an average of 7.3% per annum to reach about
34,500 in 1972/73 which represented 31% of the age group. Of this enrollment
only about 10% were enrolled in separate vocational schools. Of the 3,560
students enrolled in vocational education in 1972/73, about 1,600 were in
commercial schools, 1,500 in industrial schools and the remainder in
agricultural schools or in the schools for assistant nurses. No institution
existed for the training of personnel for the hotel and catering industry.
Very limited opportunities were offered for up-grading or re-training of
adults already in employment.
2.08     In 1972/73 about 36,000 Jordanian students were enrolled in higher
education, either in Jordan or abroad, which represented about 27% of the
18-21 age group. Of these, about 3,000 were enrolled in post-secondary
technical, commercial, agricultural, para-medical and teacher training courses.



- 3 -
2.09     The rapid growth of the education system in Jordan led to structural
imbalances and bottlenecks which adversely affected the quality and relevance
of education including; (a) the number of qualified teachers did not keep pace
with demand due to delays in increasing the capacity of the teacher training
institutions although it was believed the rapidly increasing enrollments in
teacher training institutions would progressively correct this imbalance; (b)
over-expansion of academically-oriented general secondary education because of
the pressure of social demand; and (c) neglect of vocational/technical
education despite growing shortages of skilled workers and technicians.
Insufficient attention was paid to the training and retraining needs of adult
workers both in agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, as well as to the
problem of functional literacy.
2.10     These shortcomings were recognized by the Government.  Accordingly,
the objectives of the educational plans 1970-80 were directed to: (a)
continued expansion of elementary and lower secondary education; (b) expansion
of adult education and literacy programs; (c) better adaptation of upper
secondary education by expanding the comprehensive secondary school system
initiated under the first IDA education project (comprehensive secondary
schools would combine academic and vocational education and training to assist
in meeting skilled manpower needs in addition to enhancing the employment
prospects of the graduates); (d) an increase in the proportion of
professionally qualified teachers; and (e) improvement of physical facilities.
Project Formulation
2.11     In December 1972 an IDA mission first discussed a possible second
education project with the Government. In April 1973 and March 1974, a UNESCO
identification mission and an IDA reconnaissance mission visited Jordan to
discuss with the Government the composition of the proposed project. During
May/June 1974 an IDA project preparation/appraisal mission visited the country
to assist the Government in preparing and appraising the second education
project. The project, estimated at a capital cost of US$17.45 million, as
approved consisted of: (a) a polytechnic institute for training of
technicians; (b) a trade training center for training skilled labor; (c) a
hotel school for training middle-level personnel and skilled workers for the
hotel and catering industry; (d) a rural development center for training in
rural skills, general agriculture, cooperative development, women's crafts,
nutrition and basic literacy courses; (e) three comprehensive secondary
schools, which would enable students either to proceed to more advanced
studies or to be trained in more specialized skills; (f) extensions and
equipment for 16 lower and upper secondary schools distributed throughout the
country; (g) an educational building survey; and (h) a large scale technical
assistance program to strengthen the institution building process.
2.12     Negotiations were held on January 16, 1975.  The Credit Agreement,
dated March 12, 1975 provided for a Credit of US$6,000,000 and stipulated
various conditions requiring: (a) extending the application of the tracer
system established by the first IDA education project; (b) preparing and
furnishing to IDA detailed curricula and syllabi for the polytechnic institute
and the trade training center; (c) completing and instituting by March 1978 a
trade testing and certification system to be applied to all students
graduating from institutions of vocational educaton; (d) preparing and



- 4 -
submitting to IDA a detailed program of activities for the rural development
center; (e) modifying the lower secondary school certificate examination; (f)
forming an advisory council for the polytechnic institute and a liaison
committee for the trade training complex; and (g) establishing the hotel
training school as a corporate entity and setting up its Board of Management.
Project Objectives
2.13     The project aimed at assisting the Government of Jordan in meeting
its immediate educational needs and in developing its system of education
through; (a) expanding and reinforcing vocational and technical education,
including adult training and retraining, to produce the specialized skills
required for priority sectors of the economy; (b) supporting integrated rural
development projects in the Jordan Valley through the provision of a pilot
scheme of non-formal basic education; and (c) improving the relevance and
quality of both lower and upper secondary education by replacing
uneconomically small, rented school buildings and providing the schools with
adequate workshops and other teaching facilities. The project sought to
expand the system of comprehensive and technical/vocational education financed
under the first IDA education project and extend this reform to
specializations and types of education not included in that project, to meet
identified manpower shortages. Specifically, the project included the
provision of (a) construction/extension, equipment and furniture for:
Estimated
Total
Student   Boarding   Staff    Construction
Type of Institution            Location  Capacity  Places    Houses        Area (M2)
1 Polytechnic institute          Irbid     240                           3,360
1 Trade training center         Aqaba      630 /4      80                3,720
1 Hotel training school         Amman      280                           4,280
1 Rural development center      Ghor        90                     1     1,210
3 Comprehensive secondary
schools                     Zarqa
(girls) 3,150                           5,650
Zarqa
(boys)                                  5,920
Irbid
(girls)                                 5,650
5 Science labs  /1                         240                             250 ea.
4 Craft centers for girls  /2              190                              300 ea.
7 Pre-vocational workshops
for boys  /3                           340                             365 ea.
/1 Amman (2), Balqa, Irbid and Madaba
/2 Balqa, Jerash, Karak and Madaba
/3 Balqa, Irbid, Karak (2), Ma'an, Madaba and Zarqa
74 At full capacity



- 5 -
(b) technical assistance; (i) related to the above project components (222 and
man-months of specialists' services and 516 man-months of fellowships); and
(ii) for reviews of curricula and to assist in the educational building survey
(18 man-months of specialists' services) and for strengthening general
education (90 man-months of fellowships). Proposed phasing of the program is
given in Annex 8.
Project Design
2.14     A polytechnic institute to be built at Husun in Irbid Governorate was
intended to supplement the training of technicians at the Marka Polytechnic
(built under the first project) by providing two-year post-secondary courses
in three major occupational fields not offered at Marka; (i) industrial
chemistry; (ii) food technology; and (iii) textile technology. The
technicians to be trained were needed to operate new production facilities
already planned or under consideration. The institute with a student capacity
of 240 places was expected to have an annual output of approximately 110
technicians. It would also provide short, intensive courses for employed
graduates who wish further specialization in either the field they have
studied or in closely related fields. Support courses destined for groups
from other training institutions that lack facilities which are available at
the polytechnic would also be organized in accordance with demand.
2.15     A trade training center (TTC) located at Aqaba, was to provide
full-time and part-time courses of varying duration in five basic
specializations; (i) plant maintenance and repair; (ii) industrial
electricity; (iii) instrumentation and control; (iv) climatization and
refrigeration; and (v) materials handling and transport, as well as
pre-apprentice basic training and up-grading, and conversion and retraining
courses for adults. The TTC would play its role in the context of a training
policy characterized by an increasing reliance on modern, flexible training
arrangments, which include a series of short, intensive training modules 1/,
apprentice training and in-plant training. The center would produce about 400
trained workers annually at different levels of competence.
2.16     A hotel training school (HTS) located in Amman, where the majority of
the hotel labor force is situated and will continue to be employed, was to
comprise a school of about 280 student places and a practice hotel with a
capacity of about 80 beds. The training school, the only one of this type in
Jordan, was intended to provide two-year courses at either secondary or
post-secondary levels to train middle level personnel for the hotel and
catering industry in four basic specializations: (i) hotel administration,
accounting and control; (ii) reception and front office; (iii) restaurant and
bar; and (iv) kitchen. In addition, a one-year course in hotel management
would be offered to applicants who successfully completed any of the first
three basic specializations above. Ad-hoc one-year courses in house-keeping
and store-keeping and a six-month course for tourism guides would also be
organized in accordance with the needs of the industry. In addition, short
intensive training would be provided in the practice hotel for lower level
personnel (waiters, barmen, linen maids, cleaners, ironers, washers). The
1/ Short, intensive training units of instruction, each of which can stand
alone or be taken in a series over of a period of time as employment
requirements or individual desires dictate.



- 6 -
hotel training school would enroll about 240 regular students in classes five
days a week; 100 day-release students who would attend the school one day a
week; and 120 on-the-job trainees in the practice hotel. The annual output
would be approximately 20 graduates from the managerial course, 170
middle-level personnel and about 120 lower-level workers, which should be
easily absorbed by the labor market.
2.17     A rural development center (RDC) was to be built near Deir Allah in
the Middle Ghor, Jordan Valley, near the agricultural research station of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The center would function as a pilot project to
support integrated rural development projects in the central Jordan Valley.
The center would provide short, intensive courses for adults in the afternoon
or in the evening in rural skills, general agriculture (crop and animal
production, floriculture, irrigation techniques, grading, packaging and
marketing, single farm accounting and credit), cooperative development,
women's crafts, public health, nutrition and family care as well as
functionally-oriented basic literacy courses. In the morning, the center
would serve as a centralized workshop for neighboring schools, at both lower
and upper secondary levels, catering for about 300 students. The courses for
adults would be organized in modules of about 40 hours each, and instruction
would be predominantly practical. Equipment would be simple and mainly of the
type that the trainees would be likely to use in their occupations. It was
estimated that the center could organize some 50 courses per year enrolling up
to 1,000 adult trainees. It was expected that the adult trainees would be
drawn mainly from lower and upper secondary level drop-outs, young people
employed in farming or agriculture-related activities and adult farmers and
farmers' wives requiring training or retraining.
2.18     Three comprehensive schools, one each for boys and girls at Zarqa and
one for girls at Irbid, were intended to offer a broad curriculum
incorporating pre-vocational training as well as academic subjects for all
students. Each comprehensive school would enroll approximately 1,050 students
in each of two shifts, making a total enrollment of about 6,300 students. The
schools would offer four streams of specialization in arts, science, commerce
and industrial arts or home economics. Each school would be available in the
evening for adult education and community development activities. The schools
would produce an annual output of about 1,900 graduates.
2.19     Science laboratories and craft workshops were to be provided to
existing lower and upper secondary schools distributed throughout the
country. Five upper secondary schools for boys would be provided with science
blocks; four lower and upper secondary schools for girls would be provided
with craft centers; and pre-vocational workshops to provide an introduction to
crafts would be built at seven boys' lower secondary schools. All of these
extensions would be available for adult training in the evenings. The
extensions would help to correct the academic bias of the curricula by
increasing its practical content and thus help to meet the training needs of
the increasing number of graduates who join the labor force or enter
vocational training programs at the end of the lower secondary cycle.
2.20     There was no systematic information available in Jordan on the
conditions of physical facilities in either rented or owned schools. Given
the importance of such information for both educational development planning



- 7 -
and the identification of possible future Bank projects, an educational
building survey was proposed. The services of a foreign expert--included as
part of the technical assistance program--would be required for about six
man-months to help MOE to design the survey and assist in analyzing its
findings.
2.21     TLe program of technical assistance included a total of 20 man/years
of expert's services to develop curricula and syllabi, assist in preparing
detailed equipment lists, and teach courses and train their Jordanian
counterparts; about 50 man/years of fellowships for the training and upgrading
of instructors as well as the counterparts; and travelling scholarships for
headmasters to familiarize them with modern methods of administration and time
scheduling in double-shift schools. TA was to be financed entirely by
multilateral and bilateral sources.
2.22     To enable the Government and IDA to assess the success of the first
education project in achieving its objectives, the Government had agreed at
that time to establish a tracer system for all project institutions. The
Government confirmed that this system would also be applied to the second
project.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
3.01     Project Unit.  The project was implemented by a Directorate of
Projects (DOP) created under the first education project (Credit 285-JO) and
supplemented under this project. The original DOP consisted of the director,
an architect, a procurement specialist and an accountant. Additional staff
consisting of a deputy director, a civil engineer, a second procurement
specialist and a second accountant were required by the Credit Agreement
(Credit 534-JO) to be appointed under this project to remain in their posts
until the closing of the first Credit (February 2, 1979) when the second
procurement specialist and second accountant were to be no longer required.
By then, however, the third education project (Loan 1781-JO) was about to be
appraised and the DOP remained at full strength. Although the second
procurement specialist and second accountant were appointed early in the
second education project, the deputy director was not appointed until
February 17, 1976, eleven months after Credit signing, and the civil engineer
not until December 1, 1976 or some 20 months after signing which contributed
to the early delays in implementation. This was in spite of the fact that
special allowances for DOP personnel were included in the Credit to be paid at
a scale indicated in a supplemental letter to the Agreement. The allowances
were included in an effort to make DOP salaries competitive with those in the
private sector. The payment of these allowances apparently did not begin
until January 1, 1976 and then at a much reduced scale from those agreed in
the supplemental letter. The desired effect of bringing the DOP up to
strength was only partially realized as there was persistent staff turnover
during the life of the project and continuing difficulty in filling
vacancies. The importance of these allowances to the staff of the DOP,
however, was evidenced during negotiations for the fourth education project
(Loan 2068-JO) when the Government requested that they again be included in



- 8 -
the Loan. As this request has now been denied, the Government is making a
special effort to find a way itself to extend the allowances beyond the
closing date of the second project.
3.02     The DOP has always constituted a regular Directorate in the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and as such its director has had an equal voice with other
MOE directors in the Ministry. Very recently during a reorganization of the
MOE and in view of the DOP's effectiveness, the existing Directorate of School
Buildings and Housing of the MOE was integrated into the Directorate of
Projects which was given the new title "Directorate of Project Implementation
and School Buildings". The director of the DOP has been made responsible for
the new Directorate which will be responsible for all school buildings in
Jordan whether new or existing, funded from outside sources or under the
Government's budget. New positions have been created, including a second
deputy director's post for technical matters, and an active effort is being
made once again to recruit qualified staff to finish the second Bank project,
implement the third and fourth projects, prepare for future projects and run
the Government's own school building and maintenance programs.
3.03     The DOP's success has been due in part to the work over the years of
several very dedicated individuals on its staff, to its position as a
Directorate in the MOE with full power to act and to the strong backing of the
MOE and the National Planning Council (NPC). The one area where delays
occurred--submission of withdrawal applications to IDA--has been rectified for
the third and fourth projects by giving authority to the DOP to sign
withdrawal applications.
3.04     In view of its unsatisfactory experience with furniture procurement
under the first project, in September 1976 the DOP requested the "urgent"
appointment of a furniture specialist to advise the DOP on the design and
procurement of furniture for the second project and suggested that he be paid
from the technical assistance category of the first Credit. Thereafter a
specialist was selected following IDA's recommendation, an offer made, a draft
contract drawn up and an expression of interest received from the specialist.
He was, however, not hired and by April 1977 the DOP had decided instead that
local technical committees would be formed to do the work. Subsequent
difficulties with laboratory furniture layouts and types indicate that his
assistance would have been helpful (para. 3.27).
3.05     Architectural consultants.  At the time of appraisal, it was expected
that architectural consultants for the new institutions would be selected and
contracts signed within three months and that tender documents would be ready
for the invitation of bids one year later. Following Credit signing, in
mid-1975 the DOP advertised internationally for interested
architectural/engineering consultants with the requirement that foreign firms
applying form a joint venture with a local firm(s).  Seventy-seven firms
applied, of which seven were shortlisted by a local committee appointed by the
DOP for the task. It was not until March 1976 though that the committee
recommended the award for the design of all new institutions to a single
foreign/local joint venture consulting firm and it took until July 1976 for
contract negotiation and signing, over a year behind appraisal estimates.



- 9 -
3.06     The design and construction schedule included in the consultant's
contract shows construction scheduled to begin in February 1978 or 19 months
following contract signing, already up to 13 months behind appraisal
estimates. Construction did not finally begin until late October 1978 for 6
institutions and late November 1978 for the girls' comprehensive secondary
school at Zarqa (this additional month's delay was caused by site
difficulties; para. 3.09) or 22 months behind appraisal estimaates and in fact
after the date estimated at appraisal for completion of six of the new
institutions (Annex 1). This further delay during the design and bidding
stages was caused by a combination of factors including difficulties
experienced by the consultant in obtaining necessary site and design
information from the DOP, lengthy and unnecessarily detailed review of designs
by the DOP's special committees and by IDA, and a slightly extended bidding
and award period, again due to slow committee procedures in the DOP.
3.07     Overall, the architectural consulting firm with its local joint
venture partners has performed in a very satisfactory manner during
implementation of this project. The quality of the staff assigned to the
project has been consistently high and their dedication to the work enabled
implementation to proceed relatively smoothly. Design work for the project
was done by the foreign firm with working drawings, detailing and engineering
work done in Amman by the local partners. Provision was made in the contract
for supervision of construction by the consulting firm and salaries for site
staff were fixed at a level adequate to attract qualified personnel. There
has been little turnover among this staff compared to the first project due to
the provision of adequate salaries, and the resulting high quality of the
construction in part reflects this.
3.08     The 16 extensions to existing schools were to have been designed and
implemented by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) with completion of
construction scheduled for mid-1977. Instead, the MPW did not complete the
bid documents until mid-1978 in spite of the fact that the DOP itself, in an
effort to move things along, prepared the preliminary designs and forwarded
them to the MPW in August 1977. The MPW cited its lack of technical staff,
due to the much more attractive salaries in the private sector, as the reason
for the delay. Construction finally began on the first six extensions during
the fall of 1978 more than a year after they were scheduled for completion.
Physical Implementation
3.09     Sites.  Sites for all seven new project institutions had been
selected before the project went to the Board in March 1975 but only three had
been acquired, for the hotel training school, the polytechnic, and the rural
development center. The supervision summary of December 29, 1975 indicated
that the remaining four had also been acquired and when a contract was signed
with the architectural consultant the following summer all sites were turned
over to him to allow preparation of designs. However, after civil works bid
documents were finished, bids taken, and contracts for construction awarded,
it was discovered that the site for the girls' comprehensive school at Zarqa
had, in fact, never been purchased. As the price had escalated significantly
in the meantime, the Government proposed utilizing another site it already
owned in the same general area of Zarqa. IDA and the consultant architect
both opposed the use of this site as it was in future to include a major



- 10 -
thruway interchange. Shortly thereafter, the Government did allocate the
funds to purchase the original site and construction began about one month
after it began at the other sites. All sites are well-located, adequate in
size, and suitable for their purposes.
3.10       Fifteen of the 16 extensions were built on sites of existing
schools. Only for the science laboratory extension at the boys' secondary
school at Ajloun did any additional land have to be purchased. Difficulties
in procuring this land delayed construction of this extension beyond the
others.
3.11     Design.  The overall architectural design of the project institutions
is of a high quality and careful consideration has been given to site and
climatic conditions as well as to the functioning of the institutions.  Local
materials and construction methods have been used and the buildings fit very
well into the Jordanian environment while at the same time being aesthetically
pleasing. Covered outdoor areas are used extensively to provide shaded
circulation and communal areas. The Directors and staff of the four schools
that were in operation at the time of the completion mission expressed their
satisfaction with the physical plant.
3.12     The areas of all the new institutions were expanded greatly over the
areas planned at appraisal, from an increase of 29% at the boys' comprehensive
secondary school at Zarqa to as much as 123% at the rural development center
(Annex 2). This was due in part to very conservative estimates at appraisal
of the areas per student for various spaces that would be needed, as final
curricula were not then available, and of the amount to be added to the net
areas for walling and circulation and to the complete omission in the working
papers of such obvious spaces as a library at the Aqaba trade training
complex. Following Credit signing curriculum committees were formed who
worked with the DOP on the designs and, helped by ILO and Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) specialists, made further changes in the requirements. Also
added were various spaces not planned for at all at appraisal such as boarding
facilities for students and offices for expatriate experts at the hotel
training school and staff rooms, guest rooms and a director's house at the
trade training complex. IDA repeatedly informed the Government that
increasing the areas to this extent would also greatly increase costs, but the
Government decided to accept the recommendations of the curriculum committees,
the DOP and the consultant architects and has financed the entire additional
cost itself. In an effort to avoid this problem in the third and fourth
projects, an effort was made to reach agreement on curriculum before
architects' briefs were drawn up and to allocate more realistic areas, net and
gross, to the various institutions.
3.13     Construction.  During the fall of 1977 an international
prequalification of potential bidders for construction of the seven new
institutions was advertised. Fifty-seven firms replied (December 1977). Of
these, 20 were prequalified by the DOP technical committee. The 2 local firms
were later dropped from the 20 because of poor prior performance. When the
remaining 18 firms were notified of their prequalification, they were also
notified that in order to bid it would be necessary for them to form a joint
venture with a local contracting firm registered as Class "A" with the MPW.
The bid period extended from May 28 to July 25, 1978.  Four foreign/local



- 11 -
joint venture firms bid on each of the seven institutions. In September the
DOP recommended the award of the seven civil works contracts to two
firms--five to one and two to the other. Contracts were subsequently approved
and signed and construction began at six institutions on October 26, 1978 and
at the Zarqa girls' comprehensive secondary school on November 22, 1978
(para. 3.09).
3.14     Problems developed early, however, with the construction of the five
schools under one contract. The foreign contractor gave the entire
responsibility for implementation to the local partner who was unable or
unwilling to maintain the schedules. Early in 1979, the DOP called the
foreign firm in for consultation, and they agreed to station the necessary
technical personnel in Jordan. Subsequently, an addendum to the contract was
signed in July 1979 giving entire responsibility to the foreign firm and
eliminating any participation by the local partner. Delays continued,
however, due to a persistent lack of materials, personnel and equipment at the
sites and a rapid turnover of the foreign contractor's project managers and
other personnel.
3.15     In contrast the performance of the local partner for the other two
institutions, the trade training complex and the hotel training school, was so
satisfactory that early in the construction period, the local partner was
given, at the recommendation of the DOP and the consultant architect, the
entire responsibility for the construction with the foreign contractor only
checking the situation periodically. This satisfactory situation continued
until the buildings were completed. Classes were able to begin at the trade
training complex in September 1980, two years behind appraisal estimates, but
before the building was finally completed and turned over in February 1981.
Classes began during October 1980 at the hotel school about a year and a half
behind appraisal estimates and again before its completion in mid-1981. The
hotel itself opened in September 1981.
3.16     At the remaining five sites (para. 3.14), in spite of some progress
in accelerating construction, delays continued. The DOP which was very
satisfied with the quality of construction at the sites did all it could to
continue with the same contractor and to keep him working, but his problems
extended beyond Jordan to contracts he had in other Middle Eastern countries,
and in December 1980 the DOP was notified of his bankruptcy. The DOP then
acted with noticeable dispatch to secure the sites, call in the performance
bond and prepare for further implementation. An effort was made by them to
come to an agreement with the mechanical subcontractor hired under the
original contract to finish the construction but negotiations fell through.
Subsequently, all five sites were rebid by seven local class "A" firms.
Construction resumed in May 1981 and was completed at the rural development
center by the end of the year, about 3-1/2 years behind appraisal estimates.
Classes also began in the fall of 1981 at the Irbid polytechnic at Husun and
during February 1982 at the girls' comprehensive school at Irbid, although the
building and site works at both institutions were not entirely complete. The
DOP estimates that the polytechnic and the three comprehensive secondary
schools will not be entirely finished until May/June 1982, almost four years
behind appraisal estimates. As a result of this experience, the PU plans in
future to investigate the financial standing of construction firms more
carefully before prequalifying them.



- 12 -
3.17     For construction of the 16 extensions, local bidding procedures were
allowed by the Credit Agreement for those extensions estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 each up to an aggregate total of US$1,100,000. Bids were
taken from local class "A" contractors during the late summer and fall of 1978
and contractS were signed for all extensions but one, the science laboratories
extension at the boys' secondary school at Ajloun. The latter contract was
not signed until late 1979 following protracted difficulties in obtaining
additional land and a second bidding after the first proved unsatisfactory.
The extensions were finished during 1979 and 1980 except at Ajloun where the
extension was not completed until 1981.
3.18     Quality.  The quality of construction at all seven institutions
(paras. 3.14 and 3.15) is uniformly high in spite of the difficulties in
implementation. The original contractors began well and the four contractors
hired to finish the five schools for which the contractor went bankrupt,
maintained this standard.  The quality of construction in Jordan generally has
risen greatly since the first project began in 1972 as local contractors
became more experienced and concentrated on doing fewer jobs better, and
clients demanded a better performance generally. Also in this project,
detailing was straightforward and clear, local structural systems were used,
materials called for were familiar and readily available and the supervisory
staff from both the consultant architect and the DOP were qualified and stable.
Equipment and Furniture
3.19     Equipment and furniture lists were for the most part prepared by the
local curricula committees as were preliminary layouts for the project's
various science laboratories. A team of experts from the ODA prepared the
lists for the Irbid polytechnic, and the lists for the hotel training school
were prepared by the DOP in consultation with the ILO hotel expert stationed
in Amman.
3.20     Bidding was by ICB except for miscellaneous items such as boarding
furniture and small electrical appliances which were procured locally. The
DOP advertised for suppliers interested in registering for bidding during the
last half of 1976 and when registration closed early in 1977 they had
registered nearly 800 companies. Due to the delays by then apparent in
construction of the project institutions, the DOP put off sending the packages
out for bids in an effort to time delivery with completion of the
construction. The first package therefore did not go out for tender until
December 1978, shortly after construction started. Procurement proceeded
reasonably well with a minimum of problems during the bidding, award, contract
signing and delivery phases. The furniture and soft furnishings packages for
the hotel training school were rebid when no satisfactory offers were received
from the first bidding. Textile equipment for the Irbid polytechnic was bid
three times. Kitchen, laundry and materials handling equipment 1/ for the
Aqaba training complex are currently under procurement. 101 contracts had so
far been signed at an average size of about US$58,000.
I/ The Borrower reports that all essential equipment for the materials
handling course is available at the school. Regarding training on heavy
equipment, students will work on those types of equipment available at the
port of Aqaba.



- 13 -
3.21     One problem came with slow processing of payment procedures and
submission of withdrawal applications to IDA. Following receipt from
suppliers of shipping documents, it took up to 30 days before a withdrawal
application under Procedure III was mailed to IDA for its share of the cost
(63% early in the project, reduced to 50% following a revision of Schedule 1
in November 1979) and the Central Bank of Jordan was authorized to remit the
remaining amount due to the supplier. Mailing and processing time within the
latter two institutions were also added to the time. IDA's Controller's
Department did suggest when complaints were being received from suppliers that
the Government pay the suppliers directly and seek reimbursement under
Procedure I in an effort to expedite matters but the Government would not
agree.  In the third project, the authority to sign withdrawal applicatiwns
has been given to the DOP (para. 3.03), and will also be given for the fourth
project.
3.22     Following persistent urging by IDA and the experience under the first
project, the DOP constructed during 1978 a large storage warehouse on the site
of the Marka Polytechnic near Amman for holding equipment and furniture being
procured under this project. New recording and inventory methods were also
introduced, and it was planned to keep a record of exactly which items were
received by each project institution and their total value. Although
record-keeping did improve over the first project, the above records have not
been kept and the items and their total value as received by each institution
are currently unknown.
3.23     The method of inspection of the goods was also cumbersome as the
three technical inspection committees which were formed (machine and hand
tools, furniture, and laboratory equipment) were required to inspect each item
of equipment and furniture received, even those for which no technical
expertise was necessary. When the committees did meet they were hampered by a
lack of floor space in which to open containers and spread, sort and assemble
the goods as the warehouse became more and more crowded.
3.24     Delays in construction were the main factor contributing to the
overcrowding at the warehouse which became acute in the period just before the
Aqaba trade training complex and the hotel training school were completed to
the point where they could begin to receive their shares of the stored items.
Equipment and furniture had eventually to be stored in other schools in the
Zarqa and Irbid areas and even in the DOP building itself. Other factors
contributing to the overcrowding were unexpectedly short delivery times for
equipment coming from Europe (as little as 1/6 the time it took under the
first project) and the purchase and delivery early in the project of bulky
items of furniture. Under the third project, the DOP is timing procurement to
coincide more closely with the completion of construction, and will purchase
bulky items last to allow delivery directly to the institutions in which they
will be used, acquire better handling equipment such as a forklift and a
crane, streamline inspection procedures, hire additional qualified staff for
the warehouse, and complete construction of multipurpose and other large areas
at project institutions first to allow storage at the sites of equipment and
furniture items. By the time of the completion mission, delivery of equipment
and furniture items to completed institutions and extensions under this
project had been largely accomplished although the items for the uncompleted
institutions naturally remained in storage.



- 14 -
3.25     The quality of both the equipment and furniture items supplied
appears good. Furniture is straightforward in design and construction and is
sturdy. The director of the hotel training school expressed his satisfaction
with the hotel furnishings which are attractive, simple and sturdy.
Equipment, where it was in use, appeared to be of good quality and
appropriateness although at the rural development center some items seemed
unnecessarily sophisticated for the simple curriculum that is to be taught
especially in woodworking, metalworking and nutrition.
3.26     Although some extensions needed additional furniture, the quantity of
items supplied in general seems to be generous and in cases even excessive.
At one science laboratory extension with two rooms, one was being used as a
classroom and the other was filled with recently delivered science equipment
items and laboratory benches that were apparently appropriate and of good
quality but were far more than could ever be used efficiently in the two rooms.
3.27     As in the first project, problems arose again with locating and
installing science laboratory benches and furniture. Although laboratory
layouts and necessary utilities outlets were included in the architectural
working drawings, no clear provision was made for final installation of the
furniture by either the civil works contractors or by the suppliers. In
addition, some workbenches that were supplied were shorter in length than had
been specified and as a result utilities connections project from the floor at
the ends of the benches and, of course, fewer student places are therefore
provided. The DOP has recently arranged for a representative of the supplier
to travel to Jordan and advise on the final installation. In the third,
fourth and future projects, the DOP plans to furnish plans of the laboratories
along with the bid documents to suppliers who will base their bids on the
plans as well as on the lists and specifications. The winning supplier will
be required to supply detailed utilities layouts for the laboratories for the
use of the civil works contractors and will be required to install his
furniture at the completion of construction.
Maintenance
3.28       For all the schools and extensions in operation, maintenance is
adequate. Each institution is responsible for its own maintenance, and
provision is made for it in the institution's annual budget. The Director of
the hotel training school praised the cooperation he has received from the MOE
during the start-up of the school and the hotel. All materials and
maintenance that he has requested have been provided. Also, a fulltime
qualified plant engineer is on the staff of the hotel to ensure that all
systems function as necessary.
Implementation of Software Inputs
Curriculum Development
3.29     Activities related to the development of curricula for the project
institutions were slow in starting because they depended almost entirely on
the participation of foreign experts planned under the technical assistance
component. However, under the technical committees established by the MOE
with the participation of local educators and with inputs from expatriate



- 15 -
specialists, good results were achieved. The curricula and course syllabi
for all institutions were completed by the end of 1981 except for one
specialization at the trade training center.
3.30     A technical committee was established by the MOE to prepare curricula
and course syllabi for Irbid polytechnic. This committee was assisted by an
ODA team. Detailed curricula and course syllabi were completed and submitted
for approval to the Board of Education. By the time of the completion
mission, they had been approved and are now being implemented.
3.31     The course syllabi for the training programs at the trade training
center were prepared with the cooperation of UNDP/ILO experts and with the
participation of local counterparts and technical committees. For plant
maintenance and repair, industrial electricity, and instrumentation and
control, curricula and course syllabi have been completed and approved by the
Board of Education. Course syllabi for climatization and refrigeration were
prepared by an ILO expert under the first education project. Course syllabi
and equipment lists for the materials handling and transport are currently
under preparation by a UNDP/ILO expert who began work in July 1981. The
mission found that the TTC which began operation in the 1980/81 academic year,
is currently operating as a traditional three-year industrial secondary
school, rather than as the modular skills training center as specified in the
staff appraisal report (SAR) and the Credit Agreement. Instead of the
flexible, modular course syllabi, they are using standard textbooks approved
and printed by the MOE. Five three-year training courses are currently
offered in: (i) plant maintenance; (ii) industrial electricity; (iii)
instrumentation and control; (iv) refrigeration and air-conditioning; and (v)
automotive repair. During the mission's conversations with the TTC's director
and the acting head of the MOE's Industrial Training Division, no justifiable
reason was found for this change in the appraisal plan. However, an apparent
reason is that no secondary technical school is currently functioning in the
area and the change in the planned program was the result of social
pressures. The mission was told that the Government intends to proceed as
outlined during appraisal and the MOE expects to implement a program to ensure
easy adjustment of the skill composition and level of the workers to the
changing requirements of industry and to permit upward social mobility of
capable workers through training. Nevertheless, the TTC as in operation,
still plays an important role in the training of skilled manpower. Since the
return of the mission, we have learned that the planned additional training
activities, including pre-apprentice basic training and up-grading, conversion
and retraining courses for adults were introduced in April 1982.
3.32     The hotel training school's curricula and course syllabi, which were
prepared by the technical committee established under the MOE and assisted by
the UNDP/ILO experts, have been reviewed and approved by the Board of
Education in accordance with Jordanian Law.  Training manuals have been
prepared and curricula and syllabi are being successfully implemented.  The
Board of Directors of the school, comprising representatives of the MOE, the
Ministry of Tourism, the Vocational Training Corporation, the DOP, the
Jordanian Hotel Association and the NPC meet regularly to decide on matters
regarding the HTS. As a result of the continuous cooperation between the
Board of Directors and the HTS administration, expansion of the facilities is
being considered and will include 12 classrooms.



- 16 -
3.33     A program of activities for non-formal training at the rural
development center has been prepared and presented to IDA. The outline shows
a synopsis of training courses to be offered at the center in the areas of
plant and animal production, home economics, crafts and literacy. However, no
description of courses, content, duration, arrangements, etc. is included.
The MOE has decided that at the RDC, existing curricula for prevocational
training for grades 1 to 9 and for literacy classes will be used when
operations commence. Curricula for short and regular vocational courses will
be prepared with the help of an expert, as yet to be recruited through the
UK-ODA, and would be submitted to the Board of Education for approval. Since
the return of the mission we have also received information that the RDC
started operations in April 1982, in collaboration with the Vocational
Training Corporation (VTC) and is providing the following courses of about 160
hours each: (i) electrical wiring; (ii) carpentry; (iii) welding; (iv) auto
and farm machinery mechanics; (v) plumbing; and (iv) sewing. The RDC will use
the VTC's syllabi for adult vocational training, which are generally
acceptable, until new specialized curricula are prepared. During 1982 there
will be about 90-120 trainees enrolled in the above-named courses. The
management committee, in accordance with the SAR is to determine the types of
programs to be undertaken at the center, but this has not yet been done.
Similarly, policy level coordination with the Jordan Valley Commission liaison
and advisory committees has not yet been accomplished. The newly appointed
director is in the process of organizing a management committee which would
include representatives from the different ministries as well as from the
community, and is also establishing liaison links with the various
organizations working in the Ghor Valley and especially with the Commission.
3.34     Curricula and course syllabi for the three comprehensive schools are
similar to those in the first project. An expert recruited under UNDP/UNESCO
assistance, evaluated the programs of the two comprehensive schools completed
under the first education project and also reviewed the outline curricula
prepared for the comprehensive schools under the second project. The expert
found that in general, vocational teachers had not had sufficient training in
order to provide the quality of teaching needed to develop student vocational
skills beyond the awareness level, and thus recommended that teacher
qualifications in the area of vocational training needed to be improved
through teacher preparation and in-service training. The expert also
suggested clearly defining the role of the guidance counselor in the
comprehensive schools because she found that guidance counselors are not
perceived as being effective in vocational/career counseling, testing,
academic achievements or scheduling. Additionally, a need for establishing a
regularly scheduled maintenance program that would include teacher training to
carry out simple repairs and equipment maintenance was suggested. The expert
carried out in-service training of teaching staff by means of individual
seminars at the comprehensive schools. Aspects covered included teaching
methodologies, teacher attitudes, and perceived problems encountered by
teaching and administrative staff. In March 1981, a committee was established
by the MOE, under the chairmanship of a former Minister of Education, to study
a new orientation for secondary education in Jordan. A draft plan
establishing a comprehensive curricula in all general secondary schools in
Jordan, is currently under discussion by the Board of Education. Its
recommendations will be considered at an MOE conference and a policy decided
upon by June 1982.



- 17 -
Teachers
3.35     For the four operational or partially operational institutions--Irbid
polytechnic, the trade training center, the hotel training school, and the
comprehensive school at Irbid--a sufficient number of adequately qualified
staff have been made available (Annex 3).
3.36     The Irbid polytechnic is staffed by well-qualified instructors, with
15 holding a university degree plus a diploma or certificate in the
job-related field; 14 holding university degrees; 4 with two-year
post-secondary specialized training and one with secondary/technical
certification. The staff have had experience in industrial activities and 6
staff members have participated in the fellowship program abroad.
3.37     The TTC staff comprises 2 teachers holding a university degree plus a
diploma or certificate in the job-related field; 6 teachers with a university
degree; 14 teachers with two-year post-secondary specialized training and one
with a secondary/technical certificate. The staff all have industrial
experience and 10 staff members have participated in the fellowship program
abroad.
3.38     The HTS is staffed with well-qualified instructors, with 10 holding
university degrees and diplomas or certificates in the job-related field; 16
with two-year post-secondary specialized training and one with
secondary/technical certification. The hotel training school staff have had
intensive training by ILO experts and have successfully participated in the
fellowship program.
3.39     The comprehensive school at Irbid is staffed by 11 teachers holding a
university degree plus a diploma or certificate in the job-related field; 27
teachers with university degrees; 4 with two-year post-secondary specialized
training; and one with a secondary/technical certificate. The headmasters of
the three comprehensive schools along with two commercial teachers and one
pre-vocational teacher participated in a training/observation trip to the
United States to observe organization and operation of the comprehensive
school system in that country.
3.40     At the RDC, only the director and one instructor were appointed at
the time of the completion mission. However, recent information received
states that 9 instructors were appointed through the VTC and that training
courses would commence by April 1982 (para. 3.33).
3.41     The directors of the two non-operational comprehensive schools at
Zarqa, when interviewed, were optimistic about the appointment of teachers for
those schools. They mentioned that both teachers and students would come
mainly from overcrowded schools in the same districts.
Technical Assistance
3.42     The training of Jordanian nationals was seen as a critical element in
supporting project development and operations. This was to be achieved by
thorough training of counterparts by the experts while in the field and



- 18 -
through an ambitious program of fellowships abroad (Annex 8).1/ The original
plan provided 240 m/m of expert services and 606 m/m of fellowships under UNDP
or other bilateral assistance. The actual amount of expert services provided
was 260 m/m which exceeded the programmed amount, and 459 m/m of fellowships
were implemented or 75% of the programmed amount. The technical assistance
program was financed by the UNDP, the United Kingdom, the Government of
Switzerland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Morocco and the
U.S. International Development Agency. Despite difficulties in locating
suitable counterparts and selecting qualified candidates for fellowships,
thirty Jordanian nationals benefited from the bilateral assistance fellowships
in various training specializations in different countries. The
implementation of technical assistance encountered various difficulties at the
beginning of the project, as a consequence of financial constraints and
overcommitment of UNDP funds for Jordan. Eventually, the UNDP met all its
commitments for technical assistance. Major difficulties encountered in the
selection of trainees were; (i) the problem of language, therefore, candidates
were enrolled in foreign language training to overcome this difficulty; and
(ii) recruiting of candidates in specialized fields.
3.43     Of the 60 m/m of experts programmed for the Irbid polytechnic, to be
financed by bilateral assistance, none was appointed due to economic
constraints in the ODA. However, a team of four UK-ODA experts assisted
during a three-week period to review the proposed curricula, equipment lists
and the educational requirements of the polytechnic.  This totalled 3 m/m or
5% of the TA experts' program. Regarding TA for the TTC financed under UNDP
assistance, only three of the seven experts were appointed; considerable
difficulties and delays occurred in recruiting an expert in materials handling
and transport.  Therefore, only 48 m/m out of the originally planned 60 m/m
were utilized. Seven experts were engaged at the HTS as initially proposed.
102 m/m of expert services were projected, but the total man-months devoted to
the project reached 191; all were ILO experts financed by UNDP. The
contribution of this group to each facet of the task was greatly appreciated
and has resulted in the successful operation of this component. Regarding the
general education component, two specialists -- an educational facilities
planner and a comprehensive school curriculum specialist -- were appointed as
envisaged.
3.44     The fellowship training has not been completely implemented.  Of the
180 m/m envisaged for the Irbid polytechnic, only 124 m/m were utilized;
however, the number of fellows rermained the same. Regarding the TTC, where
180 m/m of fellowship were envisaged, only 92 m/m were implemented by 10
fellows.  The HTS planned to utilize 144 m/m of fellowships, but at the time
of the completion mission 204 m/m had been utilized by eight fellows.  The
fellowship for the director of the RDC was deleted at the request of the MOE
because the director had previously received training from the Netherlands
1/ The Borrower commented that the report did not deal with the evaluation of
experts services and fellowship programs from a qualitative viewpoint.
The Borrower commented further that some of the services and programs fell
short of the requirements for various reasons such as quality, relevance,
availability of facilities and other factors. The Borrower felt that an
evaluation of efficiency and effectiveness would help to plan better for
such activities in future projects.



- 19 -
Government.  Of the 90 m/m of fellowships planned under the general education
component, only 39 m/m were utilized by three headmasters, two commercial
teachers and one pre-vocational teacher.
Covenants
3.45     Credit covenants have been generally met with regard to all
institutions except the hotel training school and the trade training center
(Annex 4). On December 14, 1978, under a decree of the Prime Minister, a
Board of Directors was formed for the hotel training school. A draft bylaw
was submitted on the Prime Minister's Office during April 1981 and is being
studied by their legal department before being finalized.
IDA Performance
3.46     Between March 1975 when the project was signed and the Closing Date,
IDA sent thirteen supervision missions to Jordan. Ten missions were composed
of an educator and an architect or economist. Although early in the project
there were up to ten months between missions, during the last several years
missions became more frequent, occurring twice a year. The level and
frequency of supervision missions provided by IDA seems to have been adequate
as does staff continuity. However, as the project was predominantly technical
in nature, supervision would have benefitted by the participation of more
technical educators in the missions. Similarly, the presence of an
agricultural educator on more than two missions would have been beneficial for
the rural development center.
3.47     Relations between the Government officials concerned and IDA have
been excellent and the DOP has several times expressed its appreciation of
IDA's efforts on behalf of the projects. IDA procedures and policies do not
appear to have constrained the implementation of the project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Capital Costs
4.01     The project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$17.45 million of
which US$11.18 million was in foreign exchange. The IDA Credit of US$6.0
million (35% of total cost) was provided to help finance construction of
physical components, purchase of furniture and equipment, professional
services and DOP staff special allowances. Multilateral and bilateral sources
were to contribute US$1.27 million (7%) for the technical assistance program.
The Government was to finance the remaining US$10.18 million (58%) of total
project cost. The following table compares the estimated and actual project
costs by category of expenditure and shows each category's proportion of the
total cost (Annex 6);



- 20 -
Appraisal Estimates                Actual
us$           % of           Us$           % of
'000          Total           '000        Total
Civil works                   10,783.0       61.8          25,161.0       72.1
Furniture and equipment        4,374.4       25.1            5,884.0      16.9
Professional services            875.5        5.0            2,600.0       7.4
Technical assistance           1,263.7        7.2            1,105.0       3.2
Project administration           153.6        0.9              150.0       0.4
Total                   17,450.2      100.0           34,900.0    100.0
4.02     The TJS$l7.45 million (sic) increase in total project cost is about
half due to cost increases resulting from delays in execution of the project
and half to increases in building areas over areas estimated at appraisal. At
appraisal the project civil works cost was estimated assuming that
construction would begin as early as July 1976 and that construction of the
last institution would be completed by June 1979, a not unreasonable
assumption.  As bids were only taken during 1978 with construction not
beginning uintil late that year, costs naturally had risen, due to general and
continuing world-wide inflation, well beyond those estimated at appraisal.
The situation was aggravated by the bankruptcy in late 1979 of the civil works
contractor for five of the new institutions which necessitated a rebidding
during the first half of 1981 for completing the construction of the schools
(para. 3.16). As a result, unit construction costs for the new institutions
which were estimated in the appraisal report to be from JD54/m2 to JD63/m2
were actuallv from two to three times as much.
4.03      Total costs also rose over appraisal estimates because of increases
in areas of all institutions which affected not only civil works costs but
also furniture and equipment costs (para. 3.12). Professional services costs
also increased for the above reasons but also mainly due to the construction
delays which have caused the supervision period by the consultant
architectural firm to be several years later and longer than planned.
4.04     According to DOP figures, technical assistance costs apparently
declined, although in fact more expert manmonths were provided than were
planned for at appraisal. Fellowships manmonths did decline slightly
(para. 3.44). Only at the Irbid polytechnic were no long-term experts
provided (due to financial constraints in ODA) as had been planned although
very early in the project an ODA team of three short-term experts did work on
curricula and equipment lists for the institution. This has made the
beginning of certain courses and the setting up of their laboratories and
workshops more difficult. Over the entire implementation period, the
long-term experts for the polytechnic were expected to arrive but the MOE is
now attempting to fund them through assistance from the Japanese Government.



- 21 -
Disbursements
4.05     Disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates due to the delays in
implementation and slow processing of withdrawal applications for furniture
and equipment (para. 3.21). A comparison of actual withdrawals with appraisal
estimates by year is shown in Annex 7. The following table shows the actual
total disbursements from the Credit by category;
Original      % of      Actual           % of
Category of Expenditure               Allocation   Total  Disbursements         Total
(us$)                  (us$)
1. Civil works                        2,600,000      43.3  3,010,827.67         50.2
2. Furniture and equipment            2,500,000      41.7  2,518,312.38         42.0
3. Professional services                 250,000      4.2    392,000.00           6.5
4. Special allowance for Project
Unit personnel                     150,000       2.5      78,859.95         1.3
5. Unallocated                           500,000       8.3
Total                          6,000,000    100.0  6,000,000.00         100.0



- 22 -
V. PROJECT OPERATING OUTPUT AND OUTCOMES
External Productivity Outcomes
5.01     At the time of the completion mission (March, 1982), the Irbid
polytechnic, the Irbid comprehensive school for girls, the hotel training
school, the 16 extensions to secondary schools and the Aqaba trade training
center were in full or partial operation. Construction of the rural
development center was completed and training activities were expected to
start by April 1982.  The two comprehensive schools at Zarqa (one each for
boys and girls) are expected to begin operations during August 1982. The
hotel training school at Amman and the Aqaba trade training center are in
their second year of operation, while the Irbid polytechnic and Irbid girls'
comprehensive school are in their first year of operation. The hotel unit
became operational during September, 1981. The project institutions, with
planned and actual physical facilities and enrollments are shown in Annex 2.
Since most of the new project institutions did not become operational until
Fall 1980, there are as yet no graduates from any of the programs. However,
in view of the present enrollments, it is likely thfat projected enrollments
will be attained.
Enrollments
5.02     The Irbid polytechnic currently enrolls 115 students in its first
year of operation and a total enrollment of 240 students is anticipated when
the institute is fully operational (1983).
5.03     The TTC enrolled 186 students in the first and second years of a
three-year course which started in 1980, although at appraisal only full-time
and part-time courses of various duration were considered (para. 3.31).
Additional training activities, including pre-apprentice basic training,
up-grading and re-training courses for adults have been introduced, beginning
in April 1982, in collaboration with the Vocational Training Corporation;
about 100 trainees are enrolled in six training areas.
5.04     Enrollments at the hotel training school are approaching the planned
figures. There are 453 students as follows: (a) 333 in the hotel school in a
three-year program (grades J10, 11 and 12); (b) 60 students in the hotel
training center for a one-year training program (grade 10); and
(c) 60 students in the hotel training college program (grades 13 and 14).
Planned enrollments are expected to be reached during the next enrollment
period. The hotel itself has never had under 50% occupancy. The School's
Board of Directors has approved the expansion of the school facilities by
construction of twelve new classrooms to meet anticipated increases in
enrollments.  Because male graduates often leave Jordan to work abroad, female
enrollment in the HTS may be increased to about 50% of the total.
5.05     The rural development center began partial operation in April 1982 in
collaboration with the VTC and offers the following courses; (a) electrical
wiring; (b) carpentry; (c) welding; (d) auto and farm machinery mechanics;
(e) plumbing; and (f) sewing (for females). The duration of each course will
be about 160 hours for 15-20 trainees enrolled in each specialty.  No



- 23 -
evaluation of the courses offered at L.  RDC will be available until at least
the end of the 1982 calendar year, by wich time most of the participants
enrolled by mid-1982 will have completed their training.
5.06     The girls' comprehensive school at Irbid has an enrollment of 788
students, but expects to reach the targeted enrollment of 1,050 during the
1982/83 academic year when all facilities will be completed.
5.07     Because the buildings are not yet completed (para. 3.16), the two
comprehensive schools at Zarqa (one each for boys and girls) had no
enrollments at the time of this review. The schools will become operational
during the coming academic year, 1982/83.
5.08     The sixteen new extensions to the lower and upper secondary schools
are in full operation and students using these facilities equal the target
figures.
Curricula
5.09     The curricula and course syllabi for the comprehensive schools, the
HTS and the Irbid polytechnic have been prepared and are being implemented.
At the Aqaba trade training center, an ILO expert is preparing the training
material for the materials handling and transport specialization, and it is
expected that the program will be implemented as planned. At the RDC a
special committee, to be assisted by an expert who is expected to arrive by
September 1982, has been established to prepare the training programs. In the
meantime, training programs have begun using the programs used by the VTC in
its own trade training centers (para. 3.33).
5.10     A tracer system established under the first education project will be
applied to the educational institutions under the second project. The tracer
system has enabled a follow-up of graduates from the technical institutions,
vocational schools and trade training centers as well as field studies in
cooperation with the NPC and the VTC.
Educational Building Survey
5.11     A survey was made under the project of all buildings used for
educational purposes.  Complete floor plans for each school, a site plan and a
photograph were obtained with evaluations of whether the schools were capable
of future enlargement or not. Written information has been collected from
about 90% of all schools, floor plans for about 75% and site plans for 50%.
In response to the lessons learned from the building survey the country took
the important step of setting out a school building construction program under
the five-year development plan, and, in addition, undertook a school mapping
exercise assisted by UNESCO.
Liaison with Industry
5.12     Liaison with industry has been initiated under two project
institutions.  The Jordanian Hotel Association is closely cooperating with the
HTS and the President of the Hotel Association is a member of the school's
Board of Directors. At the Irbid polytechnic, students are participating in



- 24 -
summer internships in two textile factories and in local food processing
industries. Thus, they are familiarizing themselves with these facilities as
well as with current industrial needs and trends. The TTC at Aqaba is well
aware of the need for liaison with the industrial sector and therefore the TTC
will include representatives from industry when its liaison committee is
established.
Teachers
5.13     The teachers in the project institutions are well qualfified and
there is a good balance between experienced and newly trained teachers. The
student/teacher ratio is good (Annex 3). At the time of the completion
mission the actual student/teacher ratio at the HTS was 17:1, which is above
the appraisal estimate of 24:1. At the comprehensive girls' school the ratio
is the same as the appraisal estimate of 18:1. At the polytechnic the
student/teacher ratio at the beginning of the 1982/83 calendar year when 126
additional students are going to be enrolled, will be 8;1--above the appraisal
ratio of 12:1. At the TTC the actual student/teacher ratio is about 8:1,
again above the appraisal estimate; however, the program at the TTC is
different to that planned at appraisal (para. 3.31).
Unit Capital Costs
5.14    Unit construction costs in project schools ranged from US$2,795 or
JD911 for the Irbid comprehensive school for girls, to US$15,200 or JD4,952
for the Irbid polytechnic institute (Annex 5). The areas for all the
institutions were greatly expanded over those planned at appraisal; the
original civil works contractor for five of these schools declared bankruptcy
midway through the construction period. This resulted in delays, rebidding
and the necessity for new contractors to begin work on the sites which along
with the additional areas, resulted in prices considerably higher than those
estimated at appraisal. Enough detailed information was not available to
allow calculation of equipment costs per place (para. 3.22).



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Planned and Actual Implementation and Disbursements
1975       1976        1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982       USt
Millions
Irbid Polytechnic                                                                                                                            6.0
Preparation of civil works                 _ __
bid documents                                                                                         /
Bidding and contract awards                                   dI'
Construction                                                       r, a_
Aqaba Trade Training Complex                                                                                                                 5.0
Preparation of civil works                         W. M./
bid documentsm  n--U    rU
Bidding and contract awards
Construction                                                      IW dW        v - _          /--
Hotel Training School                                                                              U r  _  _   7-    _                       4.0
Preparation of civil works                       r        K W,  W
bid documents                                              _ _                          /
Bidding and contract awards/
Construction                                                                  V  VI ,-  -          _
Rural Development Center                                                                       T                                             3.0
Preparation of civil works                             _--
bid documnents                                            -r            
Bidding and contract awards
Conistruction                                                                          minnu          rnnrrnVAur
Three Comprehensive Schools                                                                                                                  2.0
Preparation of civil works                          VIA  A  r,                 W
bid documents                                             _ _
Bidding and contract awards
Construction                                                        A                                                      - W    W,  W . _
Laboratories Craft Centers and                                                                                                               1.0
Workshops
Preparation of civil works                       i  ,
bid documents
Bidding and contract awards                                                        I r
Construction                                                            Mr
0.0
Credit Agree:ment                                                                    Closing Date
Date-March 12, 1975                                                                               1982 
r______   planned at appraisal
actual



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Physical Facilities
Enrollment                            Gross Areas (m2)
Planned at    Actual    % of            Planned at                          % Increase
Institution                               Appraisal      1981/82   Planned        Appraisal       Revised   Actual   or Decrease
*rbid polytechnic, Husun;
Academic and communal                     240          115         48           3,360              -       6,280    + 87
Trade training complex, Aqaba:
Academic and communal                     630          186         30           3,280           3,340      5,820    + 77
Boarding                                   80           88        110             440              -         870    + 98
Staff housing                              -             9 /       -               -               -         597    +-
Subtotal                                                                     3,720                     7,287    + 96
Hotel training school, Amman:
Academic and communal                     460          453         98           1,220              -       1,745    + 43
Boarding                                   -           128  /2    -                -               -       1,617    + -
Practice hotel                             80 beds      76 beds   75            3,060              -       5,835    + 91
Subtotal                                                                     4,280                     9,197    +115
Rural development center, Deir Allah:
Academic and communal                      90           -          -            1,090           1,329      2,430    +123
Staff housing                               1            1        100              120             -         166    + 38
Subtotal                                                                     1,210                     2,596    +114
Girls' comprehensive school at Zarqa:
Academic and communal                   1,056  /3       -          -            5,650           5,994      7,990    + 41
Boys' comprehensive school at Zarqa:
Academic and communal                   1,056  /3       -          -            5,920.          6,371      7,665    + 29
Girls comprehensive school at Irbid:
Academic and communal                   1,056 13       788         75           5,650           5,994      7,490    + 33
Science laboratory extensions (each):        48           48        100             250              -         193    - 23       z
Craft center extensions (each):              48           48        100              300             -         355    + 18       M
Pre-vocational workshop extensions
(each):                                    48           48        100             365              -         354    -  3
/1 6 staff rooms, 1 director's house, 2 guest rooms
7- Plus 3 guest rooms
/3 Single shift



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Qualifications of Staff and Student/Staff Ratios
Degree &   University   Specialized    Secondary/                                                    Student/
Teacher   Degree or       Training       Technical              Student         Total             Staff Ratio
Institutes                          Training    Higher       Qualification  Certificate  Total   Capacity          Enrollment      Projected    Actual
Irbid polytechnic                       15          14             4               1         34          240            115            12;1         4:1
Aqaba trade training complex             2           6            14                1        23          630            186            11;1         8;1
Hotel training school  /1                -          10            16                1        27          460            453            24;1        17:1
Rural development center                 -           4             5               2         11           90            n.a.            n.a        n.a.
Zarqa comprehensive school (boys)        -           1             -                1         2        1,050             not   in   operation   yet
Zarqa comprehensive school (girls)    -              2             -               -          2        1,050             not   in   operation   yet
lrbid comprehensive school (girls)   11             27             4               1         43        1,050            788            18:1        18:1
Total                                 28          64            43               7        142
/1 There are 24 other part-time teachers and instructors.
a
x4



- 28 -
Annex 4
Page 1
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Credit Covenants
Credit Agreement
Description of Covenant                  Section Number            Status
Furnish IDA with detailed curricula          4.04         All conditions have been
and syllabi for the polytechnic                           met except for the new
institute and trade training center                       specialization at the
by March 1977.                                            trade training complex of
materials handling and
transport which is under
preparation by an ILO
expert.
Complete and institute by March 1978         4.05         Testing of vocational
a trade testing and certification                         graduates at the second-
system to be applied to all students                      ary level has been in
graduating from institutions of                           effect for several years.
vocational education.                                     This testing was extended
to post-secondary grad-
uates for the first time
in June 1981.
By March 1976, Borrower to prepare           4.06         By letter of June 4, 1979
a detailed program of activities for                      IDA agreed to extend to
the rural development center and                          January 15, 1980 the date
submit program to IDA.                                    for preparation of the
program. A detailed
program of activities for
the center has been sub-
mitted to IDA.
Modifications to preparatory school          4.07         Government has abolished
certification examination (PSCE).                         the PSCE and IDA
agreed to delete this
covenant.



29
Annex 4
Page 2
Compliance with Credit Covenants (continued)
Credit Agreement
Description of Covenant                  Section Number           Status
Formation of an advisory council for        4.08         This condition has not
the polytechnic institute and a                          been met although
liaison committee for the trade                          previous supervision
training center.                                         missions understood that
it had. Both institu-
tions are currently
forming such bodies.
By March 1978, the hotel training            4.09        IDA agreed to a new
school to be established as a corp-                      date for fulfillment of
orate entity and a Board of Manage-                      this covenant.  A Board
ment established.                                        of Directors was formed
by decree of the Prime
Minister on December 14,
1978. A draft bylaw was
submitted to the Prime
Minister's office during
April 1981 and is being
studied by their legal
department before being
finalized. It will be
issued by the Council of
Ministers.



30 -
Annex 5
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Unit Capital Costs
Type of Institution        Actual Cost      Student Capacity    Unit Capital Cost
(JD '000)                                   (JD)
Irbid polytechnic
institute                 1,188.6               240                   4,952.5
Trade training
center                    1,291.7               630                   2,050.3
Hotel training
school                    1,375.3               280                   4,911.8
Zarqa comprehensive
school (boys)             1,129.3             1,050                   1,075.5
Zarqa comprehensive
school (girls)            1,199.0             1,050                   1,141.9
Irbid comprehensive
school (girls)              956.6             1,050                     911.0



THE HASHEMITE K7IGDOM OF J0ORAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CU37T 534-JO)
PROJEcr COOPLETION REPORT
cjn. Tt-nt
Construction . nd Site  -volozo-ent             F-rnitre sod Sqipot                           Professions.  F.es .Tchnhc-l AssiTtants                                        Project    dliaS tration                            70551
Aporaia.l E-ti,stes                       Appraisl                                   A.tipb tss          A....sa)O I.xsatt  Appri          til 15t5r550                                                          Aporil     tSts
tool.      Incl,      Aonal    2         Ene,        fool.      Aetnal    2          lecl.T      Incl.      Actusl    2       Etol.      Encl.      Ocil    2          EIol_       Inl. A:tnl    2               En-,        fc).       Actuel    S
Project Ite-                            Co .   CpntinS.   Cost            Diff.   Cntin        ortirna.   Cost     D         CoStin-    Co,tinn.    Cost       l       C-in.  C-i.   Coa               Sf       C-i..                  Ct         -iE.   Cotit.   Cotin.   COSt            Diff.
Srbid polytechnic, Husut                  194.0      303.0    1,188.6   0292        156.1      224.0                           15.4       '9.2                          86.6      110.9                                                                     456.1      667.1
Tr-d. trininfg -opl.. Aqab.               231.3       361.3    1,291.7   0258       223.1       320.2                          33.1       34.8                          86.6      110.9                                                                     564.1       827.2
HNotl trs-itg  school, A-.p               297.5       464.7    1,375.3   0196       146.9      211.0                           29.8       64.9                         105.5      135.0                                                                     579.7       855.6
Rural dvelop-nt centerD Iir All.          66.6       104.0      465.7   0348        36.5        52.4                           4.6       10.0                           1.6        2.0                                                                     111.3       168.4
C..p-h ... i- ..,..d.,y -h-1.,                                                                           30.7      39.3                                                                       30.7        39.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~307  9.
Con pracosnsiv  scondary schonlal3.7                                                                                                                                               3.
Oir 15' .06001 at Oarqa                 337.1       526.6    1,199.0   128        74.1       106.5                          33.7       00.8                                                                                                              49.89       683.9
toys' school at f.rq.                   353.7       552.5    1.129.3   0104        90.7       130.4                          35.4       53.3                                                                                                              47          73
-irIs' chool t Irhid                    349.8       346.4      956.6   n 75        77.0       110.7                          35.0       52.7                                                                                                              461.S       709. 
toteosions,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
Sojonor laloratoruss
T.j  oy' school,   an                 17.5                          - 43                     13                                                                                                                                                         25.3        35.6
Zuhbid,h girls' school, AM             17.5        27.3       20.4   - 20         7.8       11.3                                                                                                                                                         25.3        38.6
Se-lt.h boys' school, tooilth          193         30.2- 41                        .027.3                                                                                                                                                                            41.7
Ajloun 6 40' school, 431000            20.1        31.4       21.2   - 32         8.3       11.9                                                                                                                                                         28.4        43.3
Sahab b.,.' -choo1, S.h.b              19.3        30.1       17.4   - 42         8.0       11.5                                                                                                                                                         27 3        41.6
Cra0t rontsrs for girls,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25.I 163.
ns-ilsh girls'  school, Stecllh        19.3        30.1       26.4   _ 12         9.1       13.0
J-r.sh gurls' school, J-rnah           19.3        30.1       23.3   - 16         9.1        13.0                                                                                                                                                           4        43
OI-Onent girls' school. tl-XOatr       21.0        32.8       24.6   - 25         9.4        13.5                                                                                                                                                        30.         6
dah  firla' school, ttadaab            19.3        30.1       34.1   0 13         9.2        13.2                                                                                                                                                        20.5        43.3
?rs-ooostiotslnnrkshnp. tot bo.ys
SOnutIron OI,utsl boys' sohool1                                                                                                                                                                                                                          313.54 
Enulhern Ehonth                      24.7        38.6       21.7   - 44        11.2       16.1
Al 3h.jar-h bEys' school,
Al hhstrsh                           23.4        36.6       20.6   - 44        11.1       155.
61 bnys' shool, Ac                     26.8       41.9        24.5   - 42        12.2        17                                                                                                                                                          3
Al-O,qas  boys' sohool,  1-Q.-sr       25.5        39.8       20.0   - S0        11.3        16 2                                                                                                                                                        36.8        56.0
A, Ousasg boys' schonl of
sgtitoltuta, Al-8.acrsh              25.5       39.8        21.4   - 4*        11.0                                                                                                                                                                    36.
ihab boys' 561. s.hsS                  80.5        34.5       0.3   *3           10.8        15.                                                                                                                                                         365         5322
L-S  ..fth sys1 .ha1ool,
AlS-ue  fo                           00.6        33.3       Ib.5   - S3        10.8        15.5                                                                                                                                                        33.4        50.8
Pr"ecrt ^fsotnit .10550_                                                                                                        _          _          _                  _           _-_                          4j,J S      68.4      .!.at   -s I        37ALs.t   .
Wortl f'cO J.101       74)fj.F   3.3006    7,951.8   ft54                    InR1d         79 .li  1  5       35       A     c    isI as.    6.z1.       146  3U1.0        388.1      549..3    - I        ..         44    t                5 I4s A  hI 5.49-.7 4 7        .0-5 .1 



-32 -
Annex 7
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Thousands)
Appraisal                       Actual as % of
FY       Semester              Estimate        Actual           Appraisal Estimate
1976        1                       0                                  0
2                     30                                  0
1977        1                      90               -                  0
2                    260                8                 3
1978        1                     910              43                  5
2                  1,920               97                 5
1979        1                   3,300             190                  6
2                  4,620           1,560                 34
1980        1                   5,340           2,479                 46
2                  5,940           4,520                 76
1981         1                  6,000           5,561                 93
2                    -             5,600                 93
1982        1                     -             5,610                 94
2                    -             5,991                100
1983        1                     -             6,000                100



- 33 -
Annex 8
Page 1
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Technical Assistance
Beginning and    No. of Man/Months   Financed
Ending Dates    Appraisal   Actual        By
Irbid Polytechnic Institute
Experts.
Curricula Review 1/                                08/76              -           3       UK-ODA
Team Leader                                          -                22          -       UK-ODA
Industrial chemistry                                 -                18          -       UK-ODA
Petrochemistry                                       -                 4          -       UK-ODA
Mineral processing                                   -                 4          -       UK-ODA
Chemical manufacture                                 -                 4          -       UK-ODA
Food technology                                      -                 4          -       UK-ODA
Textile technology                                   -                 4          -      UK-ODA
Fellowships;
Petrochemistry                                05/81 - onwards         36          24      UK-ODA
Chemical engineering                          09/77 - 09/79           36          24      UK-ODA
Food technology                               07/77 - 08/78           24          13      UK-ODA
Food manufacturing                            09/77 - 07/79           24          22     UK-ODA
Food technology                               09/81 - onwards         -           24      UK-ODA
Textile technology                            05/76 - 10/77           24          17     UK-ODA
Minetal processing                                   -                36           --
Aqaba Training Center
Experts;
Team leader                                         -                 22          -       UNDP
Equipment installation                              -                 18          -      UNDP
Plant maintenance and repair                        -                  4          -       UNDP
Industrial electricity                             -                   4          -      UNDP
Instrumentation and control                   11/80 - 10/81            4          12     UNDP
Climatization and refrigeration               11/79 - 11/81            4          24     UNDP
Materials handling and transportation         07/81 - onwards          4          12      UNDP
1/ On August 1976 there was a UK-ODA four experts team to review the proposed curricula, equipment
lists and the educational requirements of the institute.



34 -
Annex 8
Page 2
Technical Assistance (continued)
Beginning and        No. of Man.Months  Financed
Ending Dates       Appraisal  Actual        By
Fellowships;
Automotive                                     06/79 - 03/80            -           9      UNDP
Automotive                                     01/81 - 12/81            -           12     UNDP
Forging and welding                            06/79 - 01/80            -           7      UNDP
Electricity                                    06/79 - 01/80            9            7     UNDP
Electricity                                    06/79 - 02/80            9           8      UNDP
Machine shop                                   06/79 - 01/80             9           7     UNDP
Refrigeration and air-conditioning             01/80 - 12/81            9          12      UNDP
Regrigeration and air-conditioning             06/79 - 05/80            9           12     UNDP
Materials handling                             06/79 - 03/80            9            9     UNDP
Instrumentation                                06/79 - 03/80            9           9      W.GERMANY
Electricity (2)                                      -                 18           -        -
Plant maintenance and repair (3)                      -                27           -        -
Instrumentation and control (3)                      -                 27           -        -
Climatization and refrigeration (2)                   -                18           -        -
Materials handling (3)                                -                27            -       -
Hotel Training School
Experts;
Project director                               01/80 - 09/83           24          44      UNDP
Hotel operations                               09/80 - 06/83           24          33      UNDP
Kitchen and pastries                           09/80 - 10/82           12          25      UNDP
Food and beverage management                   01/80 - 10/82            -          33      UNDP
Restaurant training                            01/80 - 09/82           12          32      UNDP
Hotel accounting                               09/81 - 08/82           12          12      UNDP
Tourist guides training                        08/81 - 08/82            -          12      UNDP
Front office management                               -                12           -       -
Laundry and linen                                    -                  6           -       _
Fellowships:
Counterpart - hotel director                   07/76 - 06/77           24          12      UK-ODA
Hotel accounting                               06/77 - 05/80           -           36      UK-ODA
Hotel administration, accounting                     -                 24          36   SWI'ZERLAND
Reception and restaurant                              -                24          24   MOROCCO
Food and drinks                                09/77 - 08/78           -           12      UK-ODA
Reception - Front Office                       01/81 - 01/82           24           12     UK-ODA
Reception                                             -                -           36    MOROCCO
Kitchen                                               -                -           36    MOROCCO
Counterpart - general manager (1)                    -                 24           -         _
Cookery and pastry (1)                                -                24           -         -



- 35 -
Annex 8
Page 3
Technical Assistance (continued)
Beginning and        No. of Man/Months   Financed
Ending Dates       Appraisal  Actual         By
Rural Development Center
Fellowships:
Director                                         deleted               12           -        -
General Education
Experts.
Educational facilities planner 1/             07/77 - 10/78             6           6      UK-ODA
Comprehensive school curriculum               05/79 - 04/80            12          12      UNDP
Fellowships.
Headmaster, Irbid Girls'                      01/81 - 05/81             6          4       USAID
Headmaster, Zarqa Girls'                      01/81 - 05/81             6          4       USAID
Headmaster, Zarqa Boys'                       01/81 - 05/81             6          4       USAID
Commercial teacher                            01/81 - 07/81            12          6       USAID
Commercial teacher                            01/81 - 07/81            12           6      USAID
Pre-vocational teacher                        01/81 - 04/82             12        15       USAID
Commercial teachers (1)                              -                 12          -         -
Pre-vocational teachers (2)                          -                 24           -        _
rotal
Experts                                             240        260
Fellowships                                        606        459
1/ Four trips between dates mentioned above.



Planned and Actual Technical Assistance Implementation
1975         1976          1977          1978          1979          1980           1981          1982          1983
Irbid Polytechnic Institute
Experts;  1/                                             ...
Team Leader                                 ****                                          ****************
Industrial Chemistry
Petrochemistry
Mineral Processing
Chemical Manufacture                        ****
Food Technology
Textile Technology
Fellowships:
Petrochemistry
Chemical Engineering
Food Techlnology
Food Manufacturing
Food Technology                                                                           l                                   ++++++..++++++++++++.+++++++
Textile Technology                                                    **************************                                                                 x
Mineral Processing
'************ planned at appraisal
++++++++++++  actual
1/ In August 1976 there was a UK-ODA four experts team to review the proposed
curricula, equipment lists and the educational requirements of the Institute.



Planned and Actual Technical Assistance Implementation
(continued)
1975          1976           1977          1978           1979          1980           1981          1982           1983
hqaba Training Center
Experts;
Team Leader*****w^"""^  AA
Equipment Installation
Plant Maintenance & Repair
Industrial Electricity
Instrumentation & Control                                                                                               .............
Climatization & Refigeration                                                                              ..........................
Material Handling & Transport                                                                                                      ....++++++
Fellowships;
Automotive                                                                                          +++.++++
Automotive                                                                                                                  ............
Forging & Welding                                                                                   .......
Electricity
-_a
Electricity.....
Machine Shops                                                                                       .......
Refrigeration & A.C.                                                                                         ............
Refrigeration & A.C.
Material Handling
Instrumentation                                                                        ..........
Electricity (2 X 9 mo.)                       *********    *********
Plant Maintenance (3 X 9 mo.)                 *              *
Instrumentation (3 X 9 mo.)                   *              *
Refrigerationi & A.C. (2 X 9 mo.)             *                                                                                                                         x
Material liandling (3 X 9 mo.)                *                             **********
k*********** planned at appraisal
++++++++++++ actual



Planned and Actual Techlnical Assistance Implementation
(continued)
1975           1976           1977           1978            1979           1980           1981           1982            1983
Hotel Trainilng School
Experts
Project Director                               **
Hlotel Operations                                                                                                                               I              I
Kitcheni & Pastries                                                                                                              I              I
Food & Beverage Management                                                                                                   ..........................
Restaurant Training                                                                                       *
dotel ACCoUlltillg                                                            ******>t******     .~~~~~ +++++++++++++++++++++++F++++
Hotel Accounitinig
Tourist Guides Training                                                                                                                   +++++++++F+++
Front Office Management
Lauindry and Linen
Fellowsl ips
Couniterpart Hotel Director                                                 ******  *******************
4+4++++++++++         I              I                                                                                     o
llotel Accounting                                          ... +++++++++++++++++++++++++.+  ..+++++.+++ +++++++++++
Hlotel Accounting
+4+4+4++++++4++4++4+++
Reception and Restaurant
Food anid Drinks                                                               .............
Reception, Front Office                                                                                                           ............
Reception                                                                                          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kitchen                                                                                            ++ + + + + + +. + +.   + + + + + +.  + +.                                  >
Counterpart General Managers                                                **                     rD
Cookinig and Pastry
-********w** planned at appraisal
-.. ti- ....-+   actual
+ 4+ + + +   actual dates unknown



Planned and Actual Technical Assistance Implementation
(continued)
1975           1976            1977           1978            1979           1980            1981            1982           198.3
Rural Development Center
Fellowshiips
Director RDC                                                                                               Deleted by MOE
GeneraL Education
Experts
Educationi Facilities Planner                                                                ++
++   ++
Comiiprehensive Schools
Fellowships
Headmaster, Irbid Girls'
Head,uaster, Zarga Girls'
Head,naster, Zarga Boys'
Conmmercial Teacher
Coisunercial Teacher
Pre-Vocational Teacher                                                                                                              .................
Coinilercial Teacher                          *      *                                                                                                                        (D
co
Pre-Vocational Teachers (2)
**'-*A****-**   planned at appraisal
++++++++++++  actual



I



- 41 _
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                            ATTACHMENT
- -       (Page 1 of 2)
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                     a ?  a  L,j;9|
OF JORDAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CORPORATION  ,t   i                           ....$.
Amman - P.O.B. 925837             ;                     .,. Y  -
Tel. 67197/67198                                 I VA / IV  LJ,i
R ef     N o.                                         ...................   .............
Date  --I- /    982  --                                   .. .........
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director, Operation Evaluation Dept.,
The world Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433,
USA
Dear Mr Kapur,
Re: Project Performance Report on Jordan Second Education
Project ( Credit 534 - 30 ) .
Thank you for your letter of 27 August 1982 regarding the
above project . The following are some comments on the
performance report which I found, in general, fairly com-
prehensive, well balanced and informative :
1. The report did not deal with the evalution of expert
services and fellowship programs from the qualitative
point of view. It is known that some of such services
and programs fall short of the requirements for various
reasons such as quality, relevance, availability of
facilities and other factors.  An evaluation of effi-
ciency and effectiveness would help to plan better for
such activities in future projects.
2. Reference is made in paragraph 2.11 on page 3 of the
report to the hotel school's function as training
middle level personnel. In fact, the school's function
is to prepare middle level personnel (technicians) in
addition to skilled workers for the hotel and catering
industry. The skilled worker level is actually the
main concern of the school quantitatively.



_ 42 -
W>  - > t                                  ATTACHMENT
(Page 2 of 2)
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                                            AV ,  -.4
OF JORDAN                           -
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CORPORATION                      -                    ,)JI -
Amman - P.O.B. 925837                                                       * ArV      -
Tel. 67197 / 67198                          .V  A / ovN-yv
R ef     N o.  --------- ---------- ---.----- .-------- ............................... ........
Date   ------------------------ -------- .   ....                            -    -   .   .
-2-
3. Pragraph 3.32 on page 15, dealing with the composition
of the hotel school board of directors, missed mention-
ing the representative of the Vocational Training
Corporation.
Yours Sincerely
Munther W. Masri
Director General



43                              ATTACHMENT
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                       ,X
No._....4.9/..1.50./..A/...gj
D.at.-e4..;/1.O/.1 9.8.2..,
. . . .....   .. .... .. .. ...... .. .
Mr.Shive S. Kapur
Director
Operations Evaluatio Department,
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region,
I. B. R. D.
1818 H. Street, N. W.
Washington D. C. 20433,
U. S. A.
Dear Sir,
Reference to your letter dated August 27, 1982 regarding project
Completion Report credit 534-JO Second Education Project.
I would like to thank you for the effort, that has been done-to
produce the report. Also I have no comments on the contents of
the mentioned report except for number 3.20 "Material Handling
Equipment for Aqaba Training Complex are currently under procu-
rment'.
Please kindly change this term to the following:-
All essential equipment for material handling are avilable in the
school. Regarding heavy equipment students will apply to their
practical training at those available at the port of Aqaba.
Yours Faithfully
Minister of Educ tion
Barakat Al-Tarawneh
Director of Projects
and School Building.
cc. Assistant director
cc. Procurement Officer.
cc. National Planning Council.



- 44 -                    A  CEMENT
Distribution;   fca
./l0PU NPC JO                          l)r.S.S. Kapur
21319 NPC JO                                              BOMI4ER    e
NOVEMBER 8, 1982
ATTN:  MR. SHIV S. KARUP                                      i
DIRECTOR
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPT.
SUBJECT: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 534-JO)
AAA) THANK YOU FOR YOUR LETTER DATED AUGUST 27, 1982 CONCERNING THE
PROJECT PERFORMANCE REPORI ON JORDAN FOR THE SECOND EDUCATION
PROJECT.
BBB) MOE AND VTC HAVE SENT rHEIR COMMENTS TO YOU ON OCTOBER 21 AND
SEPTEMBER 15, 1982, RESPECTIVELY.
CCC) PLEASE REFER TO THE FOLLOWING PARAS:
(1)  SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION,  PARA VI, PAGE II
(2)  PARA 3.U3,  PAGE 8
(3)  PARA 3.21,  PAGE 12
(4)  PARA 4.05,  PAGE 20
lHESE COMMENTS INDICATING DELAYS BY NPC ARE NOT JUSTIFIED.
NORMALLY, THE PROCESSING OF DOCUMENTS IS NOT HELD UP UNLESS THERE
IS A GOOD REASON FOR IT. I SUGGEST THAT THESE REFERENCES BE
DELETED.
REGARDS,
H. ODEH
PRESIDENT, NPC.
21319 NPC JO
104120 1142 081182 00990057 1138
01890189 180
NNNN



