」


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 534 JO
a
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 12., 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 12, 1975, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respecti/e
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "First Development Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Education Project) No. 285-JO dated February 11, 1972 between the
Borrower and the Association; and
(b)   "Project Unit" means the Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost


﻿4
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1985 and ending November 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 199.4 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conf rmity with sound
administrative, financial, educational and technical practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of over-all management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall expand and maintain the
Project Unit with such powers, responsibilities and staff as set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, appoint to
the staff of the Project Unit, in addition to the staff specified in Section 3.02
of the First Development Credit Agreement and in Schedule 4 thereto, a deputy
director, a civil engineer, a procurement specialist, and an accountant.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the planning and supervision
of the construction of facilities included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ architectural consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower : (i) shall,
in consultation with the Association, award the fellowships provided thereunder
to appropriately qualified candidates; and (ii) shall employ specialists acceptable
to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards' incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating to the construction
of the educational facilities included in Part A(l) through (5) of the Project and
to the extensions to the facilities included in Part A(6) thereof.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and


﻿6
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate the educational institutions
included in the Project in accordance with sound administrative and educational
policies and practices and with due regard to economy; and (ii) cause said
institutions to be staffed with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate
numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made; and (ii)
establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose of
such maintenance.
Section 4.03. In order to enable the Borrower and the Association to assess
the ultimate success of the Project, the Borrower shall extend the application of
the "tracer" system to be established pursuant to Section 4.03 of the First
Development Credit to the educational institutions described under Part A of the
Project.


﻿L
7
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than two years after the date
of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments, detailed curricula and
syllabi for the Polytechnic Institute and the Trade Training Complex provided under
Part A(l) and (2) of the Project. Said curricula and syllabi shall be based on a
functional analysis of job requirements.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, prior to the scheduled commencement
of the operation of the Trade Training Complex provided under Part A(2) of the
Project and in any case not later than three years after the date of this Agreement,
complete and institute a trade testing and certification system to be applied to
all students graduating from institutions of vocational education.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall prepare a detailed program of activities
for the Rural Development Center provided under Part A(4) of the Project and
shall, not later than one year after the date of this Agreement or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association, submit said program to the Association
for its comments.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, within three years after the date of this
Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, initiate such
steps as may be necessary to ensure that its Preparatory School Certificate
Examination shall inter alia:
(a)   allow, to the extent possible, for testing of practical skills as well as
theoretical knowledge;
(b)   provide for testing of educational achievement in the compulsory cycle,
with criteria for satisfactory completion to be established independently of the
number of student places available in secondary education; and
(c)   introduce adequate criteria for the selection, from among the students
awarded the Preparatory School Certificate, of candidates for general secondary
or vocational educational institutions.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, establish: (i) an advisory council for the Polytechnic Institute provided
under Part A(l) of the Project to advise on curriculum development, admission
criteria and evaluation systems and to include, inter alia, representatives of public
and private industry, the National Vocational Council and concerned educational
institutions; and (ii) a Liaison Committee for the Trade Training Complex provided


﻿8
under Part A(2) of the Project to be chaired by the Director of Vocational
Education in the Borrower's Ministry of Education and to consist of representatives
of the National Vocational Council, public and private industry as well as the
Director of said Trade Training Complex.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Hotel Training School
provided tinder Part A(3) of the Project is established as a corporate entity under
its laws prior to the completion of the construction of said school and in any
event not later than three years from the date of this Agreement; and (ii) establish
for said school a board of management comprising representatives of public and
private agencies concerned with hotel and tourism training.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 16, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The President of the National Planning Council of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman, Jordan
Cable address:
NPC
Amman


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1.818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ MauriceP.Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                   2,600,000            27%
(2)   Furniture and                 2,500,000            63% of foreign
Equipment                                          expenditures if
imported or of
the ex-factory
price if manu-
factured locally
(3)   Professional                    250,000            31%
Services
(4)   Special Allowance               150,000            100%
for Project Unit
Personnel
(5)   Unallocated                     500,000
TOTAL         6,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditurest means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply


﻿11
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Cedit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the estimate of total expenditures for civil works shall decrease, the
Association may, at the request of the Borrower, increase, in respect of Category
I, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may be made until the
amount of the Credit allocated therefor shall have been fully disbursed.
7.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(1)   one new Polytechnic Institute;
(2)   one new Trade Training Complex;
(3)   one new Hotel Training School;
(4)  one new Rural Development Center;
(5)  three new comprehensive secondary schools;
(6)   extensions to sixteen preparatory and secondary schools.
Part B:    The provision of about 240 man-months of specialists' services and
about 606 man-months of fellowships.
The educational institutions included in Part A of the Project, their location
and planned capacity, and the approximate areas to be constructed for each
institution are set forth in Annex A to this Schedule, and the details of the technical
assistance included in Part B of the Project are described in Annex B to this
Schedule, as such Annexes may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979
and Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿13
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Educational Institutions
Accommodation        Estimated
Student     Student     Staff     Total Gros;
Institution           Grades      Places    Boarding   Housing    Area in m4    Locations
1.   Irbid Poly-     13-14         240         -           -         3,360      Husun
technic
2.   Aqaba Trade     10-11 &       330        80           -         3,720      Aqaba
Training        ungraded
Complex
3.   Hotel *         10-11 &       280         -           -         4,280      Amman
Training        13-14
4.   Ghor Rural      ungraded       90          -          1         1,210      Deir Alla
Develop-
ment Center
5.   Three Com-      10-12        3,168**      -           -        17,220      Zarqa (girls)
prehensive                                                                 Zarqa (boys)
Secondary                                                                 Irbid (girls)
Schools
6.   Science Lab-    10-12         240         -           -         1,250      Amman (2),
oratories                                                                  Sweileh,
(extensions                                                                Ajloun,
of 5 schools)                                                              Sahab
7.   Craft Cen-      7-9           192         -           -         1,200      Sweileh,
ters for                                                                   Jerash,
Girls (ex-                                                                 El-Mazar,
tensions of                                                                Madaba
4 Schools)
8.   Pre-            7-9           336         -           -         2,555      Southern
vocational                                                                 Shuneh,
Workshops for                                                              Al-Shajarah,
Boys (exten-                                                               Ai, Al-Qasr,
sions of 7                                                                 Sahab,
Schools)                                                                   Al-Gwaireh,
Al-Ruseifeh
*    Including a 76-bed practice hotel.
**   Comprehensive schools will operate on a double shift basis and will replace about 3,000 existing places
in rented facilities.


﻿14
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance: Specialists
and Fellowships
Specialists                Fellowships
Institutions                                     Number      Man-Months      Number     Man-Months
1.   Irbid Polytechnic
Team Leader                               1           22
Industrial Chemistry                      1           18
Petrochemistry                            1            4             1           36
Minerals Processing                       1            4             1           36
Chemical Manufacture                      1            4             1           36
Food Technology                           1            4
Textile Technology                        1            4             1           24
Food Manufacture                          1            4             1           24
Fruit & Vegetable Processing                                         1           24
2.   Aqaba Training Complex
Team Leader                               1           22
Equipment Installation &
Technical Logistics                 1           18
Plant Maintenance & Repair                1            4             4           36
Industrial Electricity                    1            4             4           36
Instrumentation & Control                 1            4             4           36
Climatization & Refrigeration             1            4             4           36
Materials 'landling &
Transport                           1            4             4            36
3.   Hotel Training School
Director                                  1           24             1           24
General Manager, Practice
Hotel                               1           24              1           24
Hotel Administration,
Accounting & Control                1           12              1           24
Front Office Management                   1           12             1           24
Restaurant & Beverage
Management                          1           12              1           24
Cookery & Pastry                          1           12             1           24
Laundry & Linen                           1            6
4.   Ghor Rural Development Center
Director                                                             1           12
5.   General Education
Educational Facilities
Planner (Educational
Buildings Survey)                   1            6
Comprehensive School
Curriculum                          1           12
Head Masters                                                         3           18
Commercial Teachers                                                  3           36
Pre-vocational Teachers                                              3           36
TOTAL              23          240            42          606
The services of the specialists and the followships provided hereinabove shall be financed by the Borrower
from other sources.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Parts A.2, A.3 and A.4 hereof, contracts shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Civil works contracts for the construction of extensions to the preparatory
and secondary schools included in Part A(6) of the Project, estimated to cost less
than $100,000 each, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided,
however, that the aggregate cost of all such contracts shall not exceed $1,100,000
equivalent.
3.    Contracts for furniture for the extensions to the preparatory and secondary
schools included in Part A(6) of the Project, may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association, provided, however, that the aggregate cost of all such contracts
shall not exceed $110,000 equivalent.
4.    Contracts for the items included in the miscellaneous categories pursuant
to Part A.7 hereof may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall secure the Association's approval of any proposed change
in a contract involving a price increase of 20% or more of the contract price or
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, whichever is less, together with the justification
for the proposed change.
6.    Items of furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices. Insofar as practicable, contracts for such groups will be for not less than
$50,000 equivalent. Contracts for less than $2,000 equivalent shall not be submitted
to the Association for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval lists of all items of furniture and equipment showing the proposed grouping


﻿16
thereof, the specifications and the estimated unit price of each item and the
estimated total price of each category of items. The lists shall identify only those
items or categories of items costing not less than $2,000 equivalent, the residual
items shall be included in one miscellaneous category for each educational
institution, the amount of which shall not exceed $50,000 equivalent, or such
larger amount as may be agreed with the Association, for each institution. Identified
items shall be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the educational
institution, courses and space for which they are required. Proposed amendments
to such lists shall be sent to the Association for approval.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿17
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
I.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the specialists referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,


﻿18
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said specialists and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit established within the Ministry of Education of the
Borrower under the First Development Credit Agreement, shall be responsible for
the carrying out and supervision of the Project. The Project Unit shall be provided
with adequate premises, equipment, supporting staff, means of communications
and transport facilities.
2.    Until the Closing Date specified in Section 2.04 of the First Development
Credit Agreement, the staff of the Project Unit shall at all times include, on a
full-time basis, a director, a deputy director, one architect, one civil engineer, two
procurement specialists and two accountants. Thereafter, the full-time officers of
the Project Unit will include a director, a deputy director, an architect, a civil
engineer, a procurement specialist and an accountant.
3.    The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with ministries and government services;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architectural
consultants and contractors provided for in Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of this
Agreement;
(c)   the -pproval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture, equipment and books
required for Part A of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment, and books
including the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids and the making
of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the Association;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
provided under Part B of the Project; and


﻿20
(i)    the selection, arrangement and supervision of the fellowships under
Part B of the Project.


