Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Rqpot No. P-S711-JM
Report No. P- 5711-JM  Type:  (PM)
BABBAR, S / X32.029 / Q5-08 1/ CFSPS
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
JUNE 11, 1992
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CLUREY EALENI
Currecy Unit                          =      Jamaica Dollar (J$)
US$                                   5      J$ 24 (March, 1992)
8f8LYA A              LE
1 megawatt (MW)                              =       1,000 kilowats W)
I kilowatt hour (kWh)                        =       1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
ABBREVIAIQ  AND ACRONYMS
EA                     -      Envirnental Assessment
0i0                    -      Government of Jamaica
ICB                    -      In nal Competitive Bidding
I)B                           Inter-American Development Bank
JPSCo.                        Jamaica Public Service Co.
LPG                    -      LUqui   Pelrolewn Gas
MPUTE                  -      Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy
NIBJ                          National Investment Bank of Jamaica
PCR                    -      Project Completion Report
RFP                           Request for Proposals
GOJ AND JPSCo.'s FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LAMA=
EEERG SECTR DERGLAOA  PRrATAION OE=
I4an and Projec SuMnar
Bonower            Govement of Jamaica
Beneficiary:       Jamaica Public Service Company
Private sector subpojects, which meet the eligibility criteia and
quahify for financing, thmugh the Private Sector Energy Fund
(Fund) to be adminstered by the National Investment Bank of
Jamaica (N1BJ).
Amount             US$60 Million equivalent
Terms:             Repayment over 17 years, including a 5 year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
fnlending Terms:   1. The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) will make the proceeds of the
loan available to JPSCo. at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
and a fee of 0.5% per annum
2. The onlending from the Fund to the eligible private sector
subprojects will be denominated in U.S. Dollars at an initial interest
rate of 11%, adjusted annually.
Fiancing Plan:
L4al    Foreign    I:al
(US$ million)
IBRD                           60       60
IDB                  -         56       56
Ptivate Sector     26           8       34
JPSCo.             l:i         _
Totals           A1       VA4
Rate of Retum:     26%
Staff Apprisal
Report:            Report No. 10665-JM
Map No.:           IBRD 23863
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA
FOR AN ENERGY SECrOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
1.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Govemment of Jamaica (GOJ) for the equivalent of US$60 million. The
loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years including 5
years' grace. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to: (a) Jamaica Public Service Company,
Ltd. for 17 years including 5 years' grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate plus a
guarantee fee of 0.5% per annum; and (b) private sector power companies for up to 17 years
including up to 5 years' grace with interest determined on the basis of a rsk free market-based
benchmark rate plus a risk premium; the onlending to private companies will be denominated in
U.S. Dollars at an initial interest rate of 11%. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
would cofinancing the proposed loan in an amount of US$56 million equivalent. JPSCo. and the
private sector power companies will bear the foreign exchange risk.
BackgMrnd
2-.   Macroeconomic Adjustment Prog. GOJ is currendy undertaking a macroeconomic
adjustment program which is being supported by an IMF Standby Agreement and sector
adjustment loans from the Bank for thie trade and finance sectors and a proposed loan for private
sector development. GOJ's reform program focuses on substantially reducing the size and scope
of the public sector, further improvements in efficiency, through trade policy reform,
deregulation privatization and the reform of the legal and regulatory framework for business, and
creating an appropriate environment for foreign and domestic investment. Reforms in this area
will address the eliminaton of barriers to competition, selining of administrative procedures
and institutions. The Govemment's extensive privatization progam covering public utilities and a
large number of commercially oriented entities and services, together with the deregulation of
sugar, petroleum and power sectors coistitute a key component of the reform agenda. The
proposed Project would support the Government's program in this area through deregulation of
the energy sector and privatization of two large Government-owned entities, Jamaica Public
Service Company (JPSCo.), the electric utility, and the Petrojam refinery. As part of this
support, the Project will assist GOJ in the formulation and implementaton of a regulatory
framework for the power and petroleum sectors, prior to these planned privatzations, which will
help ensure the sustainability of the privatization efforts. The Project is also supporting the
creation of a framework to atua private investment to the power sector.
3.   Ena=  Sector. Jamaica's sources of indigenous energy are limited (i.e., relatively limited
hydropower potential, bagasse and peat), and hence the country relies on imports, almost
exclusively o, to meet its energy needs. This renders the economy extremely vulnerable to
*      international oil price increases or disruptions in supply. In k991, imported oil accounted for
about 83% of Jamaica's total net primary energy supply, the remainder being supplied by non-
commercial sources (16%), which includes fuelwood and bagasse, with a small contribution from
imported coal and hydroelectric power (1%). The economy is bighly energy intensive, and hence
energy consumption per capita is high in comparison with countries at a similar income level.
Total gross energy consumption increased at an average annual rate of 3.1% during the period
1983-91. Consumption of electricity, as measured by sales, has increased at an average annual
rate of 4.3% during the period 1980-91. However, sales have fluctuated during this period,
primaily reflecting changes in economic performance and retail tariff levels. Petroleum product
consumption is closely linked to the bauxite sector which consumes over 50%yo of all petroleum
products, and therefore is fairly volatle depending on the conditions in that sestor. From 1980-
86 total product consumpton declined by an average annual rate of about 5.4%, which primarily



-2-
reflected a significant decline in bauxite/alumina output caused by unfavorable international
market conditions. From 1986-91, however, consumption of petroleum products increased
rapidly at an average annual rate of about 10%.
4.    Domestic retail petroleum product prices, as measured by a weighted average price of
gasolene, diesel, fuel oil, LPG and jet fuel, fell by about 11% per year in real terms during the
period 1985-90, matching the trend in internaional prices during that period. However, prices
are still regulated at the ex-refinery level through a formula administered by the government-
owned refinery Petrojam, which results in prices above international prices. Although this pricing
formula establishes a linkage to international benchmark prices, it is stiU set administratively and
does not reflect market conditions or make possible efficiency savings. Marketing companies and
transport contractors, however, are free to set their prices on a commercial basis since this market
was deregulated in 1990. The scope and modalities for complete liberalization of the petroleum
sector at all levels, including prices, is a central issue addressed in a petroleum sector regulation
and privatization study under the proposed Project. Electricity pricing policy in the past has been
ad hoc and base tariffs have been adjusted only sporadically in the past v.th significant time
periods between adjustments. As a consequence, during the period 1985-91 average revenue per
kilowatt hour in real terms decreased by about 12% per year which prevented JPSCo. from
recovering significant portions of its costs. Recent adjustments, however, have resulted in the
present adequate level of tariffs (para 12). A power sector regulatory framework and privatization
study, to be caied out under the proposed Project, would address the rate setting mechanism and
principles, as well as the necessary institutional arrangements required for the reguion of the
privatized power sector.
5.   Power Secto. JPSCo. has an installed capacity of 544 MW, about 97% of which
consists of oil-fired units. As a result of a shortage of installed generating capacity, the current
unreliability of base load plants and, therefore, a heavy reliance of gas turbines for base load,
power outages occur on an almost daily basis. In order to improve reliability of service JPSCo. is
implementing a major rehabilitation program, involving investments in generation, and
transmission and distribution with financing from IDB. Although JPSCo.'s operational
efficiency has improved over the years, system losses have remained above 19% of total
generation since 1986 of which about 48% were due to non-technical losses. During the last two
years, JPSCo. has taken various steps to reduce these losses. JPSCo.'s future loss reduction
program form a part of a Corporate Action Plan. Electricity demand is forecast to grow at an
annual average rate of 3.7% for the period 1993-2010, based on current GDP growth projections
and price increases required to maintain tariffs constant in real terms. In order to meet this
demand and given the curent unreliability of JPSCo.'s generating plant, the least cost expansion
plan for generation reveals the need for one 30 MW combustion turbine plant by end-1993,
followed by a 3 x 20 MW low speed diesel plant by 1995 and another 30 MW combustion turbine
unit by 1996. This expansion plan was reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Given the
current capacity shortages, the first 30 MW combustion turbine unit is urgently required in order
to meet cndcal peak loads and avoid costly outages. Initially, these plants were all to be financed
in the private sector. In view of the complexities of mobilizing private sector financing and the
consequent uncertainty regarding the ting of the conmissiof the  f the first combusdon turbine
unit, GOJ requested the Bank to finance this unit. The Bank agreed to finance this unit in the
public sector with the provision that the unit would be operated by private operators.
6.    The proposed project would (a) provide urgently required power generation capacity; (b)
establish the enabling environment for atrcng private investments in the power sector including
the legal and regulatory framewod; and (c) support GOJ's dergulaton and privadzation program
in the energy sector.



-3-
7.    The proposed Project would comprise: (a) the installation of about 120 MW of power
generation capacity consisting of a 60 MW low-speed diesel plant in the private sector and a 60
MW combustion turbine plant, of which the first 30 MW would be in the public sector and the
second 30 MW would be in the private sector, (b) the installation of associated transmission lines
and substations; (c) establishment and operation of the Private Sector Energy Fund to provide
long-term financing for private power projects; and (d) consulting services to: (i) assist in the
opeaion of the Private Sector Energy Fund, (ii) prepare the 60 MW diesel power station and the
second 30 MW combustion turbine unit for solicitation of private sponsors; (iii) assist GOJ in the
solicitation, evaluation, appraisal, negotiation and supervision of the private projects; (iv) develop
a contractual framework for the build-own-operate projects and a regulatory framework for the
operation of the power sector, and (v) develop and implement a privatization stragy for Jamaica
Public Service Company, Ltd. and Petrojam.
Projec lXlementation
B.     The National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ) would act as administrator and
executing agency of the Private Sector Energy Fund, established under the proposed Project, on
behalf of GOJ. A Private Power Unit, which would be staffed by a s-malt g;oup of professionals,
would be established within NIBJ to administer the Fund. NIBJ would administer the Fund
under an Administration Agreement with GOJ, which would specify the duties and authority of
NIBJ including the guidelines and policies for the Fund's operadons. NIBJ would be paid for its
cost to administer the Fund plus a management fee. The cost to NIBJ as administrator of the
Fund would include the cost of staff, including salaries, transport, insurance, etc. The Fund
would charge the project companies a loan applicatior. fee, a loan documentation fee to be paid by
project sponsors at financial closure, and a project monitoring fee. Loans to project companies
would also carry a commitment fee.
9.    Subproject selection, approval and finalization of the necessary contracual arrangements
involves extensive inter-ministeial coodination. The contractual arangements comprise the set
of agreements setting out the rights and obligations of the subproject company and the
Government and its entities for, inter alia project implementaton, the purchase and supply of
power and the supply and purchase of fuel. In order to ensure that the approval of subprojects is
handled expeditiously, GOJ has entrusted this responsibility to an inter-ministerial committee, the
Ministers' Steering Committee on Private Sector Participation in the Energy Sector. The Steering
Committee functions through small working groups responsible for specific areas. JPSCo.,
which is represented on the Committee, would assess the technical and environmental
acceptability of each project, and the Private Power Unit would assess the financial viability of
proposed subprojects and consolidate the technical and financial review in an assessment report
JPSCo. and NIBJ would be assisted by consultants. Based on this report, a recommendation to
make a loan would be forwarded to the Minister's Steering Committee, who would be responsible
for sub-loan approval. Financing of subprojects by the Fund would only be approved when
subprojects are found to be technically, economically, and financially viable, and environmentally
acceptable. The implementation of private sector sub projects would be the responsibility of the
project company to be established by the selected developer. The performance of the privately
owned project company would be supervised by the Fund, assisted by consultants.
10.  In terms of the proposed generating capacity to be implemented by the public sector,
JPSCo. has experience of operation and maintenance of combustion turbines and diesel engines.
However, because of the small size of the utility, it depends upon consultants to a assist in
design, engineering as well as supervision of construction of these facilities. It is, therefore,
being assisted by consultants in design, engineenrng and construction of the 30 MW combustion
turbine. Prp ion of a feasibility study and preation of the environmental impact assessment
was initiated by consultants financed under the Japanese Grant Facility for the proposed Project in



-4-
Februay 1992, after it was agmed by the Bank to finance the first combustion turbine in the
public sector to meet JPSCo.'s urgent requirements of generation capacity. The feasibility study
and the Environmental Impact Assessment have been completed. The bidding documents for a
tuniey contract for the supply and instaLlaton of the first combustion turbine are currently being
prepared by consultants. COJ has also agreed that the first combustion turbine, although installed
m the public sector, will be operatd by the private sector. GOJ is simultaneously undertaking the
preparation of documentation to seek proposals for operadon of the combustion turbine by the
private sector.
11.  GOJ is undertadng a two-pronged straegy for the introduction of the private sector in the
energy sector. This involves- induction of private generating companies in the power sector and
steps to minimize public investments in the petroleum sector, folowed by privaizaton of JPSCo.
and Petrojam. The proposed Project includes two studies to assist GOJ in the development and
implementation of a regulatory framework and privatization strategy for the power and petroleum
sectors. These studies would be undertaken by consultants financed by the Japanese Grant
Facility, and would be coordinated by MUPrE and would form the basis of GOJ's future
privaization progmra. GOJ has submitted a letter of pdicy on private sector participation in the
power sector, and deregulation and privadzation of the sector, which has been reviewed by the
Bank and found satisfactory. The study for the power sector is expected to be completed by
February, 1993.
12.    The Bank loan would be to GOJ and would have two components. The first component
of US$19.5 million would support the initial capacity addition of 30 MW, in the public sector, to
meet the urgent generating capacity requirements and consultancy services. This component of
he proposed loan would be onlent to JPSCo. who would, in addition to the interest be charged, a
guarantee fee of 0.5% per annum. The repayment period of the loan would be 17 years including
a grace period of 5 years. The interest and foreign exchange risk will be borne by JPSCo.
JPSCo. implemented a substantial increase in the base tariff in December, 1991, and hence the
present tif levels are adequate. Although the base tariff is adjusted on an ad hoc basis, the tariff
includes provisions for fuel adjuisment and foreign exchange clauses which are passed thrugh to
consumers automatically and admiis   within the billing cycle. Under the proposed Project,
an annual review of the base tariff would be undertaken with the Bank, to determine if any
adjustments are required to meet JPSoo.'s financial covenants.
13.    The second component of $40.5 million would be for the Private Set Energy Fund to
provide long term financing to the privately owned subprojects. The Fund would be financed
hrough loans from the Bank and IDB made to GOJ amounting to US$81 million, of which the
Bank would provide US$40.5 million and the IDB US$40.5 million. Maturity and grae perod
of IDB's loan would be the same as the Bank'L Loans from the Bank and IDB would be made to
the Govanment The on-lending of funds to private companies would be governed thugh a
sub-loan agreement between NIBJ and the private company. The Fund's on-lending to
subprojects would be denominated in US Dollars, but would be repaid in equivalent Jamaican
Dollars. Movements in the J$WUS$ exchange rate would be assumed by the private sector
borowers, the cost of which wold be reflected in the sale price of power, through an indexation
provision, and passed on to the consumers. The Fund's on-lending interest rate would be
variable and determined annually. The benchmark rate for the Fund would be a risk free long-
term benchmark borrowing rate such as the yield on long-tem maurity US Treaswy bonds. A
risk prmium would be added to this benchmark rate to cover cross-cuency risks to GOJ and a
guarantee fee. The premium would also include the cost of managing and administerng the
Fund. This risk premium has been set initially at 3%. Considering the cost of similar external
financing and the risk premium over the benchmark, the initial onlending rate for the first
subpoect has been set at 11% per annum. The on-lending rate would be adjusted annually
according to the yield on long-tum maturity US Treaury bonds. It is also proposed to provide



the Projat Company incentive to refinance the debt from the Fund by bonrowings on better ttnns
from private foreign (or domestic) sources and relieve GOJ of its debt. Under this arrangement,
subprject companiies who borrow from the Fund and subsequently refinance would be allowed
to retain 50% of the savings in debt service. It is fits potential savings to the subproject company
which is expected to pvide the incentive to refinance.
14.    The repayment period for onlending the Fund's resources to subprojects, including the
resources received from the Bank, would be no greater than the terms of Bank loans to Jamaica,
i.e., up to 17 years including a gace period of up to 5 years. It is expected that sub-loans from
the Fund would cover up to 70% of the financing required for the subproject with the remaining
30% being equity. However, in orler to provide an incentive for sponsors to minimize
borrowing from the Fund, there would be a reduction in equity contributions based on the amount
of commercial loans mobilized. If the project sponsor is able to mobilize at least 20% of the total
financing required in the form of non-Fund debt without direct GOJ guarantees, an equity of not
less han 25% of the financing required would be accepted. If the sponsor is able to rise at least
40% of the total financing required in non-Fund debt, an equity level of not less than 20% would
be accepted. Additionally, as an incentive for private sponsors to mobilize non-GOJ guaranteed
commercial sources of off-shore debt, subloans from the Fund would be fully subordinated to
commnial loans made to subproject.
Prcrement Aaroach
15.    Since the Bank is expected to play a major catalytic role in mobilizing private sector
financing using limited recourse project financing, it has been decided to pursue the following
approach as a test case for a privately owned subproject and as an exception from the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. The 60 MW diesel subproject is being implemented on a limited
recourse basis through a competitive process. This process involves prequalification of
developers and the selection of a prequalif   devloper to implement the subproject. The request
for prequalification was advertised internationally. As an additional measure to increase
competition, the list of prequalified developers was published in the internatonal press so that
manufacturers of diesel plant and equipment could contact them. The prequalification critera
included the applicant's technical capability, project development experience with specific
reference to diesel plants and in particular privately owned plants, as well as ability to mobilize
financing. Seven developers were prequalified. The prequalified developers are required to
submit proposals to build, own and operate the diesel plant in response to the bidding documents
(request for proposals) approved by the Bank. These documents provide information regarding
the contracual arrangements (para 9), plant opeting regime, financial parameters to be included
in the proposals and the evaluation methodology which is based on price of elecwticity.
16.  The price of electricity is a function of the operating efficiency and cost of the plant, as
well as financing terms and the operating regime. The Power Purchase and the Implementation
Agreement which form a part of the bidding documents define the operating regime. The
developers, in response to the bidding documents, are required to provide for each year of the
concession, a Capacity Purchase Price/kW and an Energy Purchase Price/kWh, based on prices
for equipment, goods and services as of 30 days prior to bid opening and fuel prices given in the
bidding documents (RPP). Based on the plant capacity and annual energy generated as spccified
in the bidding documents, the revenue stream is computed for each year over the life of the
concession. The revenue and generation streams are then discounted using a discount rate
specified in the bidding documents to arrive at the "average discounted price" which forms the
basis of selection. The investors are also required, in their proposal, to furish: (i) details of the
cost of equipmenti (i) financing terms; (iii) constrction schedule; (iv) financing plan; (v) terms of
financing, and (v) detils of the calculation of the price of electricity. The loan proceeds will be
disbursed against equipment supply and construction costs. The developer is theefore required
to pide deils of the constuction cost, Le, cost of supply, civil work, and installation, and
the calculation for arriving at the Capacity Purchase Price and Energy Purchase Prce. The



-6-
disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed Bank Loan would be a proportion of
construction cost in the proposal. Moreover, as a condition of the subloan from the Fund, the
developer is also reqUired to submit a construcion contract satisfactory to the Fund.
17.    While the proposed methodology meets the requirements of equity, economy and
efficiency, it does not strictly comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines, since ICB
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines should be on a cash basis only. Under the
proposed methodology, however, the ability to mobilize equity is considered during
prequalification. The selection of a developer based on the price of electricity offered indirectly
takes into account the cost of financing. As the principal objective of private sector projects is to
maximize private sector financing, it is imperaive to consider the ability to mobilize equity and
financing i the selection process. It is therefore suggested that, in view of the above, an
exception to the guidelines is justified as a test case. It is proposed that the second combustion
turbine unit (pam 7) be procured using a similar methodology unless otherwise agreed by the
Bank based on the outcome of the above selection process for the diesel subproject.
18.    Four loans have been made for the power sector in Jamaica, the latest one for the Fourth
Power Project (Loan 2869-JM) in 1987. After some inidal delays, this project is being
implemented satisfactorily. Additionally, one project has been made in the petroleum sector, the
Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 2017-1M) in 1981, which, following negative results of the
exploration activities was closed in 1986, and 50% of approved funds cancelled. The recently
completed PCR for the Third Power Project (Loan No. 2188-JM) (Report No. 10252 dated April
30, 1992) articulates many of these lessons, while other perdnent lessons can be drawn from the
ongoing Fourth Power Project. The PCR for the Third Power Project summarized the main
lessons learned from dw project as: (a) financial viability can be maintained if early action is taken
to increase tariffs to compensate for increasing costs caused by currency depreciation; (b) loss of
qualified staff, through inadequate compensation, can dilute the effectiveness of training
programs; (c) where there are insufficient local staff to carry out timely procurement and
construction steps, consultants should be engaged to avoid delayed project benefits; (d) appraisal
forecasts of the pace of implementaton and disbursement were too optimistic, paricularly when
the weak situation of lPSCo. is taken into account; and (e) remedial actions should have been
taken early, at app.-isal, to address the problem of salaries adjustment in order to keep the
personnel and to avoid negating the benefits of the training progm.
19.    Some of these lessons have already been addressed through the Fourth Power Project,
while measures to mitigate other persistent problems have been incorported in the design of the
proposed Project. The issues related to staffing and salaries have been addressed by JPSCo.
through adjustments in the staff grading system which effectively increased salaries. In order to
address the ad hoc nature of adjustments in the base tariff (para 4) under the proposed Project,
annual reviews of the base tariff and adjustments required to sustain the financial health of the
company would be instituted In regard to the delays in procurement and other construction
related activities, provision is being made under the proposed Project for the use of consultants to
prepare feasibility studies and assist in procurement to avoid delays in project implementation.
Additionally, under the Fourth Power Project the establishment and subsequent strengthening of
the Project Execution Unit has improved JPSCo.'s capacity for project implementation.
20. In terms of the private sector component of the proposed Project, while there is no similar
project in Jamaica from which to draw lessons, several lessons can be drawn from the Bank's
expenence with similar operations in other countries. In order to minimize the possibilities for
delay in the implementation of privately developed power projects to be financed under the
proposed loan, several steps have been taken. These are: (a) preparation of a well defined
security package within which developers will commit their resources to implement the project,
should reduce the dme required to finalize all the agreements that comprise the security package;



-7 -
(b) selection 'af developers through an open and competitive process based on the lowest
guaranteed bid price for dhe supply of electrcity would ensure selection of the most competitive
proposal; and (c) preparation of the feasibility studies for the private projects as well as
environmental assessments will reduce the time required for the selcted developers wo prepare the
projects and the risk of developers abandoning the project in inital stages.
Ral fank x 1volvem
21.  Currently long-tem non-recourse financing for pivate sector energy projects in Jamaica is
lacking. The Fund to be established under the proposed Prject would fill this gap and establish a
vehicle to channel long-term financing to private sector projects. The Bank would also play a
significant role in mobilizing cofinancmg resources for the Fund to provide additional long-term
financing for subprojects, as well as private sources to finance subprojects. The Bank's role in
establishing the regulatofy famework and institutional capability for the introduction of private
sector into the energy sector through new investments and prvadzation is also critical. Given the
Banks previous experience in developing private sector involvement in the energy sector, the
transfer of this knowledge would expedite the establishment of privately owned generation
capacity and privatizaton of JPSCo.
A=We Actions
22.    The following agreements have been obtained:
GOJ agreed: (a) on the outline mitigation plan for Hunts Bay, (b) to funish to the Bank
and the other cofimanciers of the Fund: (i) quarterly progress reports in a format
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) annual financial statements audited by an independent
uditor acceptable to the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each financial
year, (c) to underake a mid-term review of the implementation of the proposed Project,
jointly with the Bank, bv December 1, 1994; (d) to cause National Water Commission to
obtain the guarantee of a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, guaranteeing NWC's
electricity pa s to JPSCo. in an amount equivalent to not less than 90% of the last 3
months bill  NWC shall review with JPSco. the adequacy of this letter of credit on
an annual basis and adjust it if required to an amount necessary to continue to guarantee
NWC's payments for electricity; (e) with the Bank on the final scope and content of the
Corporate Action Plan (FY93-97), and to review annually with the Bank JPSCo.'s
performance against the parameters agreed in the plan and to take crective measures
acceptable to the Bank to remedy any shortcomings in performance; (f) that JPSCo.'s
existng financial covenants would be repeated under the proposed Project, which
provide for JPSCo. achieving an 8% rate of return on revalued net fixed assets for each
fiscal year, as well as debt service and liquidity covenants; (g) on the scope and
substance of the Administraton Agreement between GOJ and NIBJ and that NIBJ
would be required to appoint consultants, satisfactoy the Bank by October 1, 1992,
to assist in subproject assessment, preparaton of loan docuentaion, negotiations, and
supervision and monitoing of the subprojects (h) (i) to eligibility criteria for approval
of private power subprojects; (ii) to submit an assessment report for each subproject
and (iii) mat subloani would be sabject to priorreview and approval by the Bank; (i) on
the organization and staffing of the, pivate power unit in NBJ; 0) to review with the
Bank by April 1 of each year beginning with 1993, the Fund's onlending interest rate
and to make any adjustments in the lending rate in accordance with the agreed
methodology, (k) to: (i) execute an Implementation Agreement with the subproject
company; and (ii) cause the subproject company to enter into a Power Purchase
Agreement, Construction Agreement, Operation and Maintenance Agreement, and any
other agreement required for the implementation and operation of the subproject



satisfactorily; (1) to guantee the payment obligation of JPSCo. in the Power Purchase
Agreement; (m) to submit to the Bank for review and approval a strategy for the
privadtzaion and deregulaton of the power subsector, including the ownership and
organization of all power sector entities, as well as a plan for its implementation
acceptable to the Bank, within three months of the submission of the consultants' report,
and shall implewrent the strategy as agreed with the Bank; and (n) to review the
conclusions and recommendations of the petroleun subsector study by January 1993.
In addition, GOJ confirmed: (a) that no additonal environmental approval is required
from any of its agencies; and (b) that the loan agreement between the Fund and the
subproject companies would include specific provisions regarding compliance with
envirnmental guidelines, satisfactoy to the Bank.
JPSCo. agreed: (a) to submit to the Bank by July 31, 1992, the consultants' report on
the modified tariff structure for review and comments; (b) to update by December 1,
1992 the existing marginal cost studies using consultants acceptable to the Bank; (c) to
convet all accounts receivable from National Water Commission as of May 31, 1992 to
a loan to be repaid over 30 months effective September 1992, with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank
As conditions of effecivnes:
(a) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOJ and JPSCo. satisfactory to
the Bank- (b) GO would be required to have made arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with cofinanciers for cofinancing of the proposed Project; (c) Receipt of
responsive proposals by JPSCo. for the installation of the first combustion turbine; (d)
Submission of an environmental mitigation plan for the Hunts Bay site whose timing,
scope and execution strategy are acceptable to the Bank; and (e) Execution of the
Administration Agreement between GOJ and NIBJ.
Ednmeta A=ts
23.    GOJ's consultants have prepared Environmental Assessment (EA) Reports for the
installation of: (i) 2 x 30 MW combustion turbines; (ii) 3 x 20 MW diesel power plant; and (iii)
transmission lines. While these summaries are broadly acceptable to the Bank, the EAs would be
revised aisfactory to the Bank before their finalization. The 30 MW combustion turbine at
Hunts Bay which will be owned by JPSCo. is located at Hunts Bay adjacent to the site of the
existing generating facilities. Based on the draft EA for the combustion turbine plant, the
proposed Project site could be contaminated from previous activities of the existing Hunts Bay
generating facilities. The draft EA concludes that the incremental environmental impacts of the
proposed Hunts Bay facility are marginal, but that the S02 and noise levels associated with the
eising generation facilites already exceed the Bank's environmental criteia. An outline for the
"clean closure," which includes site assessment and removal of all hazardous materials fiom the
site of the proposed Hunts Bay facility, has been prepared by the consultants as a supplement to
the EA. In addition, an environmental audit of the existing Hunts Bay facilities has been already
conducted by consultants financed by IDB. A comprehensive mitigation plan, defining the
measures to comply with the Bank's requirements, will be prepared to reflect the
recommendations of EA report, the environmental audit of the existing facilities and clean closure
requirements of the proposed site. The proposed Loan includes a provision for consulting
services to assist GOJ in Implementing the mitigation plan.
24.    The 60 MW diesel plant at Rockfort and the second 30 MW combustion turbine at Hunts
Bay would be owned and operated by the private sector. The developer selected to implement the
subprojects would be required to meet the World Bank's environmental guidelines and would be



-9-
required to submit, as part of fte feasibility study and as a condition of financing from the Fund,
an environmental assessment for each subproject. An environmental screening of the facilides to
be privadzed in the energy sector would be undertaken. Provisions are included in the
prvatization studies under the proposed Project, to nmalyze and recommend mechanisms to be
ncluded in the regulatory framework for the energy sector to ensure compliance with
environmental regulations.
25.    The proposed Project would provide urgently needed capacity in the power sector and
mobilize significant cofinancing resources to prvide long-term financing to private sector energy
projects. It would establish a framework for the operation of privately owned energy projects and
assist in mobilizing private debt and equity capital for these subprojects. It would also support
GOJ's program of deregulation and privatization in the energy sector by establishing a regulatory
ramework to enhance operating efficicncy and attract private investment thereby reducing public
sector investment.
Ri&k
26.    There are four major risks associated with the proposed Project: (a) inadequate capability
to appraise the two private sector subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan, negotiate
the agreements required for the lenders' and investors' security and supervise and monitor the
subprojects. This risk would be addressed through technical assistance being provided under the
Japanese Grant Facility and also a consultant to be financed under the proposed Project; (b)
unsatisfactory proposals being submitted by the private sector to develop and finance the two
subp¢ojects. In order to mnimize this riskc, potential investors are being prequalifled to ensure
that only qualified and capable sponsors bid on each subproject; (c) financial closure may not be
achieved in a timelY manner and consequentdy new investments would be delayed. In order to
mininmie this ris and in recognition hat private power projects financed under limited recourse
artangements is a untested approach in Jamaica, provision would be made for the Fund to finance
up to 100% of the debt financing required for each subproject, while incentives would be given to
the potential sponsors to mobilze debt from other commcial sources on a limited recourse basis
(para 12); (d) privadtzaion of JPSCo. and Petrojam could be delayed or hindered because of the
lited capacity of the local capital market and the inability to raise the relatively large amounts of
capital required. Phased approaches to divestiture and incentives to attract foreign investors
would be explored in the privatization studies to mitigate against this risk
27.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attcmnts
Washington, D.C.
June 11, 1992



- 10-
Schedule A
Sununmm of Estimated Project Cost
(US$ Million)
(J$Million)         (US$ Milli
cal Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
3 x 20 Low Speed Diesel  410.8  1313.2 1724.0  18.3   58.6   77.0
2 x 30 Combustion Turbine   193.0  771.2  964.2  8.6   34.4   43.0
Interconnection and
Transiission Facilities  39.0  118.0  157.0  1.7    5.3    7.0
Technical Assistance         -   60.5  60.5    -    2.7   2v
Total Base Cost          642.9  2262.8 2905.7  28.7  101.0  129.7
Physical Contingencies    49.2  126.6  175.7  2.2    5.6    7.8
Price Contingencies      471.9  -80.78 1358   10.0    8.6   18.6
Total Project Cost      1164.0  3276.0 4440.0 40.9  115.2  156.1
Interest During Construction  -  256.   256.3 _-      9.0    9
Total Financing Required   1164.0  3532.3 4696.3 40.9  124.2  165.1
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Laca  Foreign  lad
D3RD              -    60       60
IDB               -     56      56
Private Sector   26      8      34
JPSCo.           U      _      __
Totals         41    124    16



Schedule B
Murement AmrangzMnIs 11
(US$ million)
ProcW=gmnt Mg«od
ectW Element              ICB       N_BF      Other      Totd
1. Combustion Turbine 1           27.6          -         --      27.6
(18.0)                         (18.0)
2. 60 MW Diesel Plant                                  93.1 2     93.1
(32.5)    (32.5)
3. Combustion Turbine II -^                            24.1 2/    24.1
(8.0)     (8.0)
4. Transmission System               --       8.6         -        8.6
5. Consulting Services                         --       2.7 Y1     2.7
Total                        27.6        8.6     119.9      156.1
(18.0)        --    (42.0)         .0
IJ Cntct value includes taxes and contngencies.
2/ Compettive biddig, based on exception as discussed in paras 15-17.
y1 Selection of consltants according to Bank guidelines.
ICB     Inrnatial Competitive Bidding.
NBF     Not Bankfinanced.
MM      Figures in paeathesis indicate Bank finacing.



- 12-
ScheduleC
Timietable of Pect's KLy  essing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:   September, 1990-June, 1992 (22 months)
Furst Bank Mission:            September, 1990
Appraisal Mission Departur:    February 20, 1992
Negodations:                   June, 1992
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 15, 1992
Relevant PCRs:
Ls?a No.           PoetCRDaw                                   Rel  No.
2188-JM            Thad Power Project       April 30,1992      10252
The Project was prepared by: Suman Babbar (Task Manager), Abderrahmane Megateli
(Sr. Financial Analyst), David Baughman (Econormst), Maria Elena Bamentos (Opeions Officer).



13 -
Schledule D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
.................. ........................................
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1992
..........- .......-.............-.--........                            --------US$  Million-------
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   (Less Cancellation)
No.        Year/i Borrower       Purpose                                          Bank           Undisbursed
... ............  ------... . .......  ..........                                 ....           ...............
43 Loans fully disbursed I/                                                      764.5
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans 2/
2105-JM   1982    Jamaica       Structural Adjustment 1                          76.2
2315-JM   1983    Jamaica       Structural Adjustment II                         60.2
2478-JM   1985    Jamaica       Structural Adjustment III                        55.0
2848-JM   1987    Jamaica       Trade and Finarce Sector Adjustment              40.0
2849-JM   1987    Jamaica       Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment              20.0
3174-JM   1990    Jamaica       Agriculture Sector Adjustment                    25.0
3303-JM   1991    Jamaica       Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment 11           30.0
Subtotal             306.4
2389-JM   1984    Jamaica       Urban Transport                                  16.0                5.1
2422-Jm   1984    Jamaica       Water Supply and Sewerage T.A. Rehabilitation     9.0                2.8
2850-JM   1987    Jamaica       Sugar Rehabilitation                             34.0                6.0
2851-JN   1987    Jamaica       Population and Health                            10.0                7.8
2869-JM   1987    Jamaica       Fourth Power                                      18.0               5.4
2899-JM   1988    Jamaica       Education                                         8.3                2.1
3062-JM   1989    Jamaica       Clarendon Alunina Production                      15.0              11.6
3111-JM   1990    Jamaica       Social Sector Development                        30.0               27.2
3275-JM   1990    Jamaica       Road Infrastructure Planning                     35.0               32.3
3386-JM   1991    Jamaica       Financial and Program Management Improvement      11.5              10.8
Total (net of cancellations)                         951.3
of which has been repaid                             341.0
Total now outstanding                                610.3
Amount Sold                                   1.6
of which has been repaid                    1.6      0.0
Total Now Held by Bank                               610.3
Total Undisbursed                                                      111.1
........... ................... . ..
1/ Including a telecommunfcations loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone Company
and the Third Export Development fund loan made in 1983 subsequently cancelled.
2/ Approved during or after FY80.



- 14-
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1992
_.................... ......................................_............... ....
Investment Fiscal                                   Type of
Number     Year    Borrower                          Business                       Loan    Equity    Total
.......--      ------... ._........                  ............ ------                     ....      .....
038     1961    Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.             Cement & Constr. Materials-       0.2      -         0.2
136     1969    Pegasus Hotels of Jamaica        Tourism                           2.2      0.7      2.9
542     1981    West Indies Glass Company        GLass Containers                  2.3      -         2.3
598     1982    Jamaica Flour Mills Limited       Food and Food Processing         5.0      -         5.0
818     1985    The Falcon Fund                   Guarantee Facility               2.5      -         2.5
815     1985    Eastern Banana Estates 1/         Food and Food Processing         3.7      0.4       4.1
907     1986    St. Mary's Banana Estates Ltd.  Food and Food Processing           3.8      1.1       4.9
1129     1989    Eagle Merchant Bank              Cummercial Bank                   5.0      -         5.0
1130     1989    Jamaica Citizens Bank            Commercial Bank                   5.0      -         5.0
1131     1989    Mutual Security Bank             Commercial Bank                   5.0      -         5.0
Total Gross Commitments                                          34.7      2.2      36.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Participations
Sales and Repayments                                          21.9      1.1      23.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                         12.8      1.1     13.9
TotaL Undisbursed (Including Participants)                                 0.4
1/ Investment was totally canceled
C. Bank Assistance Strategy
.....  __... . . . . . .
The 1992 program includes a proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan designed to support
trade reforms, the privatization program and other measures to increase the incentives for private investment;
and an Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Loan supporting private sector investment in power
generation and other energy development.  Future Bank lending would consist largely of sector investment
loans financing transport and other infrastructure development, social investments, and the private sector.



B8RD 23063
7a 00'                                        77 30                                        77 00                                          76V301
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION
AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT                               P        jUN  CO.I fie"I 
-138 kV TRANSMISSION UNES
69 kV TRANSMISSION UNES
-           ~~~~~69 kV LINE REBUILD
18-30'                                  R
1    SUBSTATIONS         1830
=UE                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER PLANTS:
80GUE ^ MHA8RIO 9U                                _                                              e HYDRO
J  LAUGHLANUS  0W   OS                                                           STEAM
CRAMGE*GtA lVR                                                                         X1  Y1 WHTE RIVE    ORACABESSA
ORANGE 9AY JkCV  VPBE 
0Negril                                                                                                                    IAY
S E           I                                              \ FELACKSTONEDGE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LYSN
CA  MIKMAG4017Y                                                                     EVARTON                                            -ANTONHO
MEXICO  ERR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I OR
HOSKNDUAS                                                                                                                                                 BIUNTSEAY      OYrSL\
\MANDEVIUE I                                               0  \        D           i E pNI
NICAEA- ; \ OUAY   STEEL   81UE MOURINTAIN
-19-00,                                          BROADLEAF'                                                            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  O  ROPBETS
COLOMBIA?  7800                                                                                                                       _____________________________~~ToMAY   N  R.  18001
hcO   Af                                                                                                                 6              0IEtS -M?E
\>N^\    /  HPNYTS NEGROR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVER  MOARr@
7 ;:J        OLV"~~~~~ARBOUR SAY                                                      LY ON
MEXICO        CUA        I  REP.                                                                                                                                                          KIra>/H NTS GYOSTION HABURElEPgCN
YSELIZE  JAMAICA   HAIYI'                                                                                                                                                     ANDIOKOTDEELPATLCTO
,-.>  HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                          HUNTs BAY              ROL:,  cR! 0
*   l NICARAGUA                                                                                                         0T0U 3rLMnR                                     RBINE                 DEf
FA                                                                     _-                                                                         ,o  l biDMILs
PANAMA
COLOMBIA _'?  1178',00'                      ~~~~~~~~~~77'30E                              775,000 
JUNE 1992



