Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No: 20244
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(35020; 3502A)
ONA
LOAN
1N THE AMOUNT OF US$60.0 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
FOR
THE ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION
AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
June 22, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 3
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Jamaica Dollar J$
J$1.00 = US$ 0.02
US$ 1.00 = 41.04 (February 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOO           "Build-Own-Operate" (Electricity Consession)
CARIFA        Caribbean Financial Assistance Facility (U.S.A.)
CDC           Commonwealth Development Corporation (United Kingdom)
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP         Energy Sector Technical Assistance Programme
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IPP          Independent Power Producer
JPPC          Jamaica Private Power Company
JPS           Jamaica Public Service Company
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean
MME           Ministry of Mining and Energy
NIBJ          National Investment Bank of Jamaica
NPV           Net Present Value
OUR           Office of Utility Regulation
PPA           Power Purchase Agreement
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
USAID        Agency for International Development (U.S.A.)
KWh Kilowatt-hour
MW Megawatt (1,000 kilowatt)
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Dany M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Joerg-Uwe Richter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007476                                      Project Name: ENERGY STR DEREGULAT
Team Leader: Joerg-Uwe Richter                          TL Unit. LCSFE
ICR Tpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENERGY STRDEREGULAT                           L/C/TFNumber: 35020; 3502A
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BR - Public Enterprise Reform
KEY DATES
Original           RevisedJActual
PCD:  11/21/90                               Effective: 10/02/92          02/08/93
Appraisal: 05/11/92                                 MTR:                       09/18/95
Approval: 07/02/92                                Closing: 12/31/97           12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOJ/PUBLIC SERVICE CO.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                   Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Susan G. Goldmark                        Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:   Joerg-Uwe Richter                       Suman Babbar
ICR Primary Author:   Stephen Ettinger
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to (a) provide urgently required electricity generation capacity; (b) establish the
enabling environment for attracting private investments in the electricity sector, including the legal and
regulatory framework; and (c) develop and implement a comprehensive deregulation and privatization
program for the energy sector including the electricity company, Jamaica Public Service, Ltd. (JPS), and
the petroleum refinery of Petrojam.



Assessment The objectives were appropriate, and provided a reasonable balance between the
short-term electricity requirements and the longer-term reform goals, as well as an appreciation of the
fact that legal and regulatory reform were essentialfor privatization. They reflected the position of the
top Jamaican leadership. But the support for both an independent regulatory sysiem and privatization
proved to be weak, and the Government did not live up to this commitment. The objectives were
consistent with the Bank country strategy for Jamaica, which emphasized the shift from public to private
sector orientation in the economy. However, given the mixed results of the Bank's four previous
electricity sector projects in Jamaica, and the Bank's limited experience at that time with comprehensive
energy-sector reforms in any country, the objectives were clearly ambitious.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The revised objectives of the Project were to (i) provide urgently required electricity generation capacity
and (ii) establish the enabling environment for attracting private investments in the electricity sector.
By early 1999, it had become clear that neither JPS nor Petrojam was going to be privatized by project
closure, nor was an autonomous regulatory system likely to be in place. Thus, the Bank removed these
objectives from the Project, which also made it possible to give the Project a "satisfactory" rating. (A
QAG review in mid-1999 also rated the project as "Satisfactory".) The alternative of closing the Loan
early was not available because the Bank had granted in a 1994 amendment an irrevocable take-out option
to refinance five-year CARIFA bonds issued by the Jamaica Private Power Compaly (JPPC).
Assessment This modification of objectives, coming six months before loan closing, was of limited
operational significance for Jamaica, and served primarily internal Bank purposes of streamlining the
portfolio and reducing administrative costs.
3.3 Original Components:
A. Electricity Generation Capacity
1.  A 60 MW low-speed diesel plant in the private sector;
2. A 60 MW combustion turbine plant, of which the first 30 MW would be built by JPS and
subsequently operated by the private sector, and the second 30 MW would be in the private sector;
3.  Associated transmission lines and sub-stations;
4.  Consultancy to (a) design the two privately owned plants for solicitation of private sponsors and (b)
assist the Government in the solicitation, appraisal, negotiation, and supervision of the private projects.
B. Private Sector Energy Fund
1.  Establishment and operation of the Fund to provide long-term finance for private electricity
investments;
2.  Consultancy to assist in the operation of the Fund.
C. Sector Reform and Privatization
1.  Consultancy to develop a (a) conceptual framnework for built-own-operate (BOO) projects and (b)
regulatory framework for the electricity sector;
2.  Consultancy to develop and implement a privatization strategy for JPS and Petrojam.
Assessment. The design of the Project was on the cutting edge of its day. It was the Bank's second
Independent Power Producer fIPP) project (after Hub River in Pakistan), and the first one with
competitive bidding to select the developer. By familiarizing Jamaica with this approach, the Project
-2 -



also facilitated two additional IPP-type investments, outside its own scope. The problems encountered
in implementation, including the complexity of negotiating BOO contracts, the relatively high cost of
generation of electricity (well above the cost originally contracted, for reasons discussed below), and the
reluctance ofpotential utility purchasers to assume the payment obligations of long-term power purchase
agreements (PPAs), have lead to a rethinking of this approach The Private Sector Energy Fund, while
perhaps necessaryfor a project like this, turned out to be an inefficient mechanism, as it was not usedfor
any other investments, either under this Project (due to cost overruns in the first IPP, the funds intended
for a second one were not available) or outside of it (the two other IPPs mentioned above were entirely
directly fundedfrom abroad). The privatization components were laudable, but at project initiation
were at too early a stage ofpreparation. Allowing JPS to construct the first 30 MWgas turbine turned
out not only to be a political concession, but also the only way to meet the urgent generation
requirements. However, the idea that this generating unit would subsequently be operated by the private
sector had not been sufficiently thought through, and never moved beyond being a general statement of
intent.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan was amended in October 1994 to extend an irrevocable take-out guarantee, so that less expensive
five-year CARIFA bonds (i.e., Puerto Rican bonds with lower interest due to U.S. tax incentives, which
had been extended to Caribbean countries) could be used by JPPC to finance its BOO plant. This was a
novel step for the Bank in two ways; it was the first time the Bank had (a) granted an irrevocable take-out
guarantee for more than one year, and (b) allowed subsidized financing to enter into bid evaluation
(although, in this case, it turned out that the only two firms which finally bid were both US companies with
access to the same subsidized credit). In this matter, the Bank showed considerable flexibility, although it
turned out that there was a price to pay for this operationally.
Some components were removed with the June 1999 Amendment to the Loan Agreement, but by that time
this change lacked operational significance. Almost $2 million was cancelled, mostly from the technical
assistance component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project took a comprehensive approach to energy sector reform, utilizing work done by ESMAP on
both electricity generation expansion and hydrocarbons pricing. The Project combined lessons the LAC
Region had learned from Argentina's and Chile's privatizations with the BOO/IPP model being developed in
the Bank. But such a comprehensive approach put a heavy administrative, technical, and political burden
on the Government and the World Bank alike. The initial success was largely due to a Bank staff seconded
to the Government and to intensive support from Bank missions, but this outcome proved unsustainable.
Quality at entry of the electricity generation component was highly satisfactorv, reflecting the extraordinary
resources (including substantial high-level management time in both the Bank and the Government) devoted
to project preparation. The component was structured so as to mobilize significant private equity, with the
private developer absorbing the construction and technical risks, although the Government had to guarantee
payments under the PPA. This was seen as a model to be emulated in other countries.
While the BOO component was at a suitably advanced stage of preparation at the time of loan approval,
the privatization and reform components were not, so their quality at entry must be rated unsatisfactory.
For example, while the Staff Appraisal Report lists six conditionalities related to the BOOs, there is only
one general conditionality related to the more far-reaching privatization and reform objectives (i.e., "...to
submit to the Bank for review and approval a strategy for the privatization and deregulation of the power
-3-



subsector...as well as a plan for its implementation...and shall implement the strategy as agreed with the
Bank"). In addition, because most of the funding (except for consultancy) was allocated to the electricity
generation component, there was no leverage in regard to reform and privatization. It might have been
more effective to segment the Project in two and pursue the reform and privatization objectives through an
adjustment loan, once these components had been adequately prepared.
The risks regarding the BOOs were correctly assessed (and some of these risks indeed materialized), but
those regarding privatization were incomplete. For privatization, the only risk idenlified was the inability
to raise the necessary capital on the local market, which did occur in the case of Petrojam. The fact that
the Government did not have a well-tested and fully transparent approach to privatization was not
recognized as a risk, nor was the fragility of the political consensus in favor of comprehensive reforms.
Much attention was paid to the creation of the Private Sector Energy Fund, at the National Investment
Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), which was supposed to finance not only two BOOs under this Project, but others
that would come along from other financial sources as well. But despite the long-terrn nature of this
funding, the 3% spread above the Bank lending rate made this not very attractive financing. Already, the
private-sector financing which USAID and IFC were promoting at the time would not have utilized this
Fund, and the two other BOO schemes which materialized also did not draw upon this Fund, which thus
ended up being an administratively expensive way of processing one loan only (the second BOO envisaged
under the Project did not go ahead). And even for that Loan, its role in appraisal and supervision was
limited.
In the interest of time, the Bank had reluctantly agreed to the Government's insistence that the first 30 MW
gas turbine be built by JPS, but required that it be later sold to the private sector. However, no concrete
steps to undertake this transfer were spelled out. In fact, it made little sense, once this plant was built by
JPS, to treat it differently from JPS' already-existing generation facilities next door, especially as JPS'
privatization was already anticipated. Even the linkage between this implied management contract for the
first 30MW and the intended bidding for the second 30MW (for which, in the end, thiere was no money
under the Loan) was not considered.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/lchievement of objective:
Expansion of Electricity Generation Capacitv This objective was mostly met, but with problems. The 60
MW slow-speed diesel plant was built and is owned and operated by the Jamaica Private Power Company (
JPPC). Its environmental performance has been good. However, the process took 50% longer than
anticipated (54 months instead of 36 from loan approval). As the plant was completed rather late to meet
the anticipated electricity generation shortage, JPS had to resort to more expensive temporary measures.
The plant has also been beset by technical problems: as of end-1999, its rated capacity was still 6% below
the 61.3MW contracted, and its forced outages had amounted to 12% of potential output, as compared to
3% allowed. This was mainly the result of a poor choice of equipment manufacturer and turn-key
contractor by the project developers. Because of liquidated damages called for in the contract, much but
not all of this cost is being borne by the private investors. (Based on standard practice with IPPs in the
U.S.A., JPPC pays a fixed unit penalty when it cannot meet its contracted output, whereas the economic
cost varies by both season and time of day based on the operating cost of the marginal unit which has to
come into production). Finally, the plant turned out to be rather high-cost (see section 5.4 below).
The first 30 MW combustion gas turbine (GT-10) was built by JPS, and has been generally operating
satisfactorily. In fact, comparing it with JPPC's 60 MW plant built at about the same time, this public
-4 -



sector investment has turned out faster (it was procured and installed in one year), cheaper, and technically
superior. The plant remains in the public sector (JPS), although this was not the original intention. The
environmental assessment and mitigation plan for this plant were excellent.
The second 30 MW combustion turbine was never constructed because (a) the higher-than-anticipated
costs for the 60 MW diesel plant did not leave sufficient funds in the project budget, and (b) the
Govermment and JPS became dissatisfied with IPPs because of the high costs and technical problems of the
Project's first BOO.
Private Sector Energy Fund
This Fund, in NIBJ, was established as planned. Its staff received the necessaly training and technical
assistance, and participated in the negotiations for the JPPC project. However, the Fund played only a
marginal role in project supervision and has not lent for any other facilities. Its staff of three professionals
has since been disbanded. (There were two other BOOs soon after JPPC, but both were entirely externally
funded, including by IFC in one case.) The Energy Fund turned out to be an administratively expensive
way to make just one loan (which it finally did in October 1999, when the CARIFA bonds matured and
were replaced by Bank and IDB loan funds).
Sector Reform
Under the Project, consultants carried out a study on the privatization of JPS and the required
legal/regulatory changes. Based on the recommendations, the Government established in 1996-97 the
Office of Utility Regulation (OUR) for electricity (as well as telecommunications, transport, and water).
The legislation granted OUR regulatory authority only over new utilities, so that regulation of JPS, in
particular, remained in the hands of the Ministry of Mining and Energy (MIME) and the Cabinet. The
March 1997 performance contract between JPS and NIBJ stated that OUR would obtain supervisory and
tariff responsibilities with respect to JPS in three years. A political issue erupted in 1998 after the Cabinet
had given approval to JPS to over-recover the fuel price charge built into the electricity tariffs (which JPS
had applied since 1993 and in more recent years, used this charge to offset the higher cost of electricity
from the IPPs). Once it was legally determined that this was not correct, OUR stepped in and proposed a
system for repaying these overcharges by JPS. At the same time, OUR also had recommended to block
increases in telephone rates. As a result, OUR became politically popular, and was also given high marks
by the Government for the way it handled its tasks. When the three-year period envisaged in the JPS
performance contract ended in March 2000, Cabinet approved and sent to the legislature a draft law to give
OUR full tariff authority over electricity.
In the case of hydrocarbons, recommendations by the consultants led to the liberalization of imports, with
only a relatively small margin of nominal protection remaining (although substantial effective protection)
for Petrojaam's refinery.
Privatization The Government made some efforts to privatize both JPS and Petrojam, but did not seek nor
follow Bank advice, and both efforts ended in failure.
In the case of JPS, the first issue was whether to privatize the company as one unit, or to separate
generation from transmission and distribution. The consultants' study and the Bank recommended the
latter, as important for promoting competition in generation, because a vertically-integrated company
would tend to favor expanding its own generation even if IPPs offered a cheaper alternative, and to
overcome this would require much more heavy-handed regulation than would be needed with separation.
The Government and JPS initially accepted this recommendation, but later argued that separation would
not be appropriate for a system as small as Jamaica's, because it might be difficult to attract quality foreign
- 5 -



investors, and the transaction costs between the separate companies might be higher than the efficiency
gains. (JPS' position was to be expected: virtually all companies facing privatization prefer to remain
intact, as that leads to less personal disruption and uncertainty.) In the bidding documents, firms were
invited to bid for 56 per cent of JPS as an integrated company. The two bids received were for the entire
company.
The second issue was the procedures for the sale, and on these the Bank's involvement was not invited.
Most governments that conducted successful privatization programs have been careful to allow for
adequate time upfront to create the conditions necessary to attract the largest number of adequate bids, and
then minimized the time from bid opening to award, so as to prevent any accusations of favoritism. In the
case of JPS, the treatment was the reverse. The Government did not beforehand (a) establish a
comprehensive regulatory framework; (b) set a minimum price, (c) spell out the evaluation weightings (or
limit the evaluation, as is usually done, to price alone), or (d) allow firms enough time to study JPS and
prepare their bids (the bid period was just two months). It also set an arbitrary limit. of five firms to be
prequalified, as a way of reducing the work of bid review (even though in the case of the BOO, only two
bids had been received out of seven prequalified firms). When two of the prequalified firms asked for a
time extension, their request was rejected. As a result, only two bids were received, both from firmns which
were able to bid within the allotted time because they had already initiated contact with Jamaica before the
privatization was announced. While it is impossible to state with certainty that applying procedures similar
to those in other countries would have ensured a successful outcome of the privatization process, the gross
deviation from these procedures has likely contributed to the failure of the process.
Bid opening was followed by ten months of discussions with the two bidders in which elements other than
price were considered (e.g., development plans, technology, local equity participation, and commitments to
invest in related industries). Finally, when it appeared that discussions had been completed satisfactorily
and a firm selected with whom negotiations would begin, word leaked out that the lo,wer-price bidder was
being recommended as the winner. This resulted in an outcry from the political opposition and the press,
and concern that the privatization could become an issue in the forthcoming elections. Coupled with the
reluctance of many within the Government and especially JPS to privatize in the first place, and its
dissatisfaction with both bids, the Government decided to cancel the entire privatization.
In rejecting the bids, the Government gave four reasons. First, the bidders were insisting on higher tariffs
for at least three years (both to shorten the payback period and because the BOO contracts were themselves
front-loaded like that). Second, irrespective of the tariff issue, the Government was not satisfied with the
prices offered by the bidders. Third, as minority shareholder, the Government did not agree with the
bidders' position on dividend policies. And fourth, while the bidders recognized that a privatized JPS would
have to accept the PPAs with the IPPs, they wanted the Govermnent to retain the guarantee obligation,
rather than pass it on to them as the new owners.
In the case of the Petrojam refinery, the Government had to bring the enterprise to the point of sale to
comply with a second-tranche condition under the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan. But
because of the refinery's low economic viability, as reiterated in the Arthur D. Little study, there was no
international investors' interest, and the only bid received was from the management of the refinery itself.
Extended efforts by the management, over a two-year period, to obtain financing for the purchase failed,
and the privatization was finally cancelled. There was an extra cost to this process, because during the
interim period the refinery was not upgraded, and its productivity declined.
4.2 Outputs by components:
- 6-



1. Electricity Generating Capacity: The JPPC plant has an installed capacity of 61.3MW, but its rated
capacity to date is only 57.7MW. The GT- 10 plant has met its target of 32.5MW installed capacity.
Because of comparatively low fuel costs, both of these plants come first in the merit order of dispatch for
their type (i.e. the JPPC is the first plant dispatched, and after all of the base-load plants have been
dispatched, the GT- 10 plant is the first peak-load plant to come into operation).
2. Private Sector Energy Fund: The Fund made one loan, to JPPC, in October 1999, when the CARIFA
bonds matured.
3. Sector Reform and Privatization: Consultants developed the BOO conceptual framework, the
regulatory framework, and the privatization strategies for JPS and Petrojam.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR estimated the economic rate of return (ERR) for the entire electricity generation component at
26% (using the projected average price of JPS's sales) and at 38%, respectively (using consumers'
willingness to pay, based on the cost of self-generation with small diesel sets). The main reason that the
estimated ERRs are so high is the unsound methodology that was used. Except for a small amount of
transmission investment (9% of investment cost) required for the plants, the SAR implicitly assumed that
the expanded sales could be achieved without any additional transmission or, more significantly,
distribution costs (either investment or operating costs). But as generation accounts for only about 50% of
the estimated long-run marginal cost of electricity supplies, attributing all benefits of increased sales to
generation expansion alone results in an estimated ERR about twice as high what it should be.
Partially offsetting this was another methodological error in the SAR. The estimated 26% ERR was really
the weighted average of two quite different types of investments. The - base-load - diesel plant was
expected to operate with an 89% capacity factor, whereas the two gas turbines were projected to operate
with only a 30% capacity factor, as they would be peaking plants. If the two projected ERRs were
calculated separately, using the SAR methodology, they would come out to 35% for the diesel plant and
only 10% for the gas turbines. Using a blend of base load and peaking plants is proper, but the ratio
should be that of JPS as a whole, which is two-thirds base load, rather than the one-half for the Project per
se.
The first correction would halve the appraisal estimate to 13%, while the second correction would raise this
to about 15%. (This is the starting point which has been used for the re-estimation of the ERR.) This is
also, prima facie, more reasonable for long-term investments in the electricity sector where tariffs are
supposed to be set to yield a 12% rate of return on net fixed assets. Projects with above-average efficiency
can be expected to have ERRs somewhat above 12%, but it would take an extraordinary technological
breakthrough (which was never anticipated for this Project) to have an ERR approaching 26%.
The actual cost of the JPPC plant was about 50% more than the estirnate used in the ERR calculation, due
to (a) the SAR's unrealistic optimism about the attractiveness of Jamaica to investors, (b) the fact that only
two finns ended up bidding, (c) the increased costs resulting from the prolonged negotiations, (d) the
debt-service reserve demanded by the CARIFA banks for the first five years, (e) the unanticipated
replacement of key components during the first few years, and (f) the omission of physical contingencies in
the ERR calculation. Exacerbating this, the plant's output to date has been about 6% below projections
(404 vs. 431 GWh p.a.), due to outages and failure to reach contracted capacity, and this gap is expected to
continue because the basic technical problems are deep-seated in the poor quality of the equipment and
- 7 -



installation. The plant also came on stream 18 months late, but as the investment costs were delayed on
average by about twelve months, the net economic effect on the EER calculation was only that of a
six-month delay. JPS' own GT-10 30MW plant was built on schedule and within budget, but it was
meant to be only the first half of a 60MW facility, with the second 30MW supposed to come on stream
three years later (i.e., early 1997). The indefinite delay in the latter reduces slightly the economic return
from the former, by depriving it of economies of scale in both civil works and operation/maintenance. The
re-estimated ERR for the entire Project comes to around 9%, which is below the opportunity cost of
capital.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
From the point of view of JPS, the JPPC plant is delivering electricity at an average price of USc7.7/kWh,
which is 25% above the estimated USc6. 1/kWh long-run marginal cost of electricity generation in Jamaica,
based on the March 1998 Long Run Marginal Cost and Tariff Study. (Approximately one-half of the
difference was already incorporated in JPPC's base price bid, and the remainder was the result of the 20
months delay between JPPC's selection and the signing of contracts.) JPS sells this power at
USc12.5/kWh, but after allowing for its 17% technical and non-technical losses and approximately
USc5/kWh transmission and distribution costs, it is losing about UScl.5/kWh on thiese supplies.
From the point of view of JPPC, this is also turning out to be a poor investment, because financing costs
were higher than anticipated, more spare parts are needed than normal due to technical problems, and
liquidated damages need to be paid because of the company's inability to meet contractual generation
targets. Although the investors initially expected a return on equity of 15-20%, this return now is
considered unlikely to be much over 10%.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The main achievement was the creation of OUR, which finally seems poised to acquire the necessary
regulatory authority, now that the three-year period specified in the JPS Performance Contract has been
reached. This has been a slow process, both because of the normal resistance to an autonomous regulator
from the utility (JPS), and because the Government was not willing to grant that autonomy until OUR had
proven itself. OUR is now seen by the public as a protection against higher telephone and electricity
tariffs. It remains to be seen what may happen if OUR supports the tariff increase needed and being
sought by JPS.
The project's impact on Petrojam was minimal. On the positive side, the consultancy study provided much
useful information. On the negative side, the uncertainty during the two years during which the
privatization was pending reportedly resulted in delaying major maintenance and minor technological
upgradings.
In preparation for its privatization as two companies, JPS reorganized its staff and accounts into separate
generation and transmission/distribution units. However, when the privatization failed, JPS reverted to its
previous structure and also then entered into a five-year Performance Contract with the National
Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), with review due after three years (March 2000). The intention was to
have JPS operate virtually as a private sector company, so that there would be no reason to privatize it.
JPS' performance did improve in a number of areas (see section 7.6 below). In particular, staff morale is
high, its public image is good, and its technical performance has been sound. But the company was not
able to meet the financial covenants under this and other Bank loans, because of (a) its commitment not to
ask for higher tariffs for three years, and (b) its failure to significantly lower technical and commercial
losses and administrative expenses. Although no additional generating capacity has been required to date,
the lack of resources as result of its weak fmancialposition has prevented JPS from initiating the process of
- 8 -



capacity expansion. Consequently, Jamaica now faces the risk of electricity shortages in the coming years.
(According to NIBJ, this primarily is an issue of varying perceptions within the public sector: whereas
JPS is confident that generating capacity requirements can be met through efficiency improvements until
the next 120MW facility comes on stream, the Government is more cautious and thus has asked JPS to
provide for interim expansion.)
NIBJ, backed up by JPS, took the lead in negotiating the IPP contract with JPPC. The two entities did put
that experience to good use in negotiating two other IPPs shortly thereafter, with much less delay and
problems. But that expertise has been little used since, except in negotiating some relatively minor
cogeneration agreements with firms that produce electricity for their own needs and sell the excess to JPS.
NIBJ's Private Energy Unit (which was to manage the Energy Fund) has been dissolved, as has the
Govermnent's Energy Sector Policy Implementation Unit, which was the coordination unit for the Project.
On balance, the institutional development impact was modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Finding highly qualified IPPs was difficult, because this industry was relatively new in industrialized
countries and virtually non-existent in developing countries. In order to identify seven potential bidders, the
prequalification cut-off became 61 points out of 100, which is extremely low for any prequalification.
The relatively high cost of the JPPC plant was partly due to (a) the excessive complexity of the financial
and contractual arrangements, as there were almost 350 separate documents to be signed at the financial
closing; and (b) the perceived high country risk of Jamaica (payment to the IPP ultimately rested upon a
Government guarantee).
The failure of the Petrojam privatization was due to the poor economics of the refinery, which made it
unattractive to foreign firms, and to the withdrawal of credit which had been promised in principle to the
management team which made the sole bid.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The failure of JPS' privatization was due primarily to the Government's approach to privatization, as
spelled out above, and to its unwillingness to allow the Bank to provide significant inputs in this process.
The Government did not give OUR sufficient regulatory autonomy during the project implementation
period. Instead, the Government gave NIBJ responsibility for monitoring JPS, but not the resources to do
so effectively.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
JPS' decision not to seek tariff increases for three years, its failure to significantly reduce losses and
administrative costs, and lack of serious preparation for capacity expansion have the potential to create an
electricity supply crisis within two to three years.
JPS was slow to issue the request for proposals (RFP) for the BOO, so most firms lost patience, and only
two of the seven prequalified firms ended up submitting bids.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
-9-



The actual costs for the Project, as compared to that anticipated in the SAR (including 6% physical and
14% price contingencies, and interest during construction) are as follows (in US$ million):
Component           Appraisal Estimate         Actual Cost           Comment
60 MW diesel (BOO)          100.4                   142.5          135.9 was accepted for
tariff purposes;
30 MW turbine (JPS)          28.3                   23.2            _
30MW turbine (BOO)           24.7                     -            Cancelled -- lack of funds
Transmission                  8.7                   12.7           Includes additional.
substation
Technical assistance          3.0                     1.2          Also used grants for TA
TOTAL                       165.1                  179.6
US$ 135.9 million for the 60 MW diesel plant was used to set the price under the PPA, which is 16%
higher than the US$117.6 million "base cost" used in the bid. This difference reflect.s the higher costs
(financial; legal; administrative) that resulted from the delays in finalizing the contracts: it took 20 months
from the selection of JPPC until financial closure, due to the inexperience of all parties involved with such
deals (JPPC's owners had only undertaken IPPs in the U.S.A., and this was Jamaica's first IPP) and the
complexity of the Caribbean Financial Assistance Facility (CARIFA) financing arrangements. Because the
investment costs represent about two-thirds of total payments under the PPA, this resulted in an 1 1%
increase in the average price of energy from JPPC, i.e., from USc6.91 to USc7.66/kWh. There was then a
small further increase to USc7.72 when the US reduced the CARIFA subsidy. In the event, the two
measures intended to lower costs -- involvement of the private sector and use of subsidized financing --
probably had, on balance, the opposite effect.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
In a narrow sense, the Project is sustainable because the generating plants constructed under it will almost
certainly continue to operate for many years. Provided it is given the anticipated authority, OUR is likely to
have an enhanced inpact, although its role would be more limited if electricity remains in the hands of the
public sector (except for the IPPs, but these are governed by contracts rather than regulations).
But in terms of the Project's main objective, i.e., to introduce IPPs and at least begin to shift the sector from
the public to private ownership and management, the Project's achievement is not sustainable. Although
two other BOOs (one of them only for a three-year emergency period) were initiated following the
agreement on JPPC, sentiment in Jamaica has moved against IPPs, and they are unlikely to be used in the
future. JPS itself was sustaining a financial loss from the IPPs (partly because the price paid under the
PPA was front-loaded, so as to allow the investors to amortize their investrnent sooner) and was unable to
raise its tariffs in compensation because it had pledged a three-year tariff freeze. (When the Govermnent
did permit it to raise tariffs de facto by modifying the fuel-price adjustment, the resulting political fallout
and popular opposition damaged JPS' reputation.) The Government and JPS are currently at an advanced
stage of negotiating with China the financing and construction of a 120 MW public-sector coal-based
generation facility, which would meet the requirements for several years. Not only have IPPs proven to be
expensive, but also JPPC's plant thus far has been below average technically, so it is difficult to make the
case that experience has demonstrated the virtues of this approach. The main argument that can be made in
favor of BOOs is that these can attract financing not otherwise available. But in case bilateral funding
becomes available for a public sector investment (as with the anticipated Chinese funding), even that
- 1 0 -



argument weakens.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The generating plants are already operating on a regular basis. However, as the capacity constraint has
been tightening, the GT- 10 plant is beginning to be used more than intended for base load (because of its
relatively low investment cost and high operating cost, the plant is most economical for meeting peak
demand). The JPPC plant is finally close to being operated at its rated capacity, after two years of
unsatisfactory performance.
Now that the three-year self-imposed tariff freeze is over, JPS has submitted a request for a 12% tariff
increase. Thus, its finances are likely to improve in the short term, but this will be undermined if JPS has to
operate peaking plants for base load on a large scale.
The Government again is considering privatizing JPS, for fiscal reasons, but this might not come to fruition
now because JPS is well-regarded by the public, and this is likely to change only if and when there are
electricity shortages. Furthermore, it would be difficult to privatize JPS while the company was carrying
out major generation expansion.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank was exceptionally proactive in the design of the Project. On the one hand, its central
departments were promoting IPPs as a new model and a means of both relieving electricity shortages and
introducing the efficiency benefits of private enterprise. On the other hand, LAC was impressed by
Argentina's and Chile's success in privatizing their electricity sectors and was promoting this model
throughout the Region. The new government administration in Jamaica was both receptive to the Bank's
private-sector focus and in urgent need of resources to forestall potentially crippling electricity shortages,
so it was a natural for this Project. A Bank staff who had been seconded to the Government, at the Prime
Ministeres behest played a key role in building government support. The Bank also helped organize a
high-level seminar in Kingston on energy sector reform, and helped mobilize considerable co-fnancing
from IDB, the Japanese project preparation grant fund, and USAID.
The Bank devoted extraordinary resources to the preparation of the Project's IPP component, as important
issues had to be resolved for the first time. During the 15 months leading up to the June 1992 Board
presentation, 249 staff-weeks were charged to the Project (including from trust funds), and even this does
not fully account for the time spent by senior management and legal and procurement staff. The Bank
showed considerable flexibility, especially in procurement, by agreeing to a bidding process based on the
electricity supply price that implicitly allowed for bilaterally-subsidized funds to the bidder. As noted in a
1992 senior management memorandum, this was setting a precedent in which "the interest of borrowers is
to prevail over the principle of treating bidders equally." The Project became the model for an addition to
the Bank procurement guidelines, for which the project task manager wrote the first draft. However, in
view of its lack of prior experience with BOOs, the Bank did not anticipate well some of the problems
which would arise, but neither did anyone else. The project team and LAC management had to steer
through potential conflicts with USAID, which cancelled its grant aid when a proposal by a U.S. investor
for a generating plant was declined by the Government in favor of the Bank loan, and with IFC, which
submitted to the President of the Bank Group that IPPs were more suitable for IFC and private-sector
financing than for the Bank proper. Resolution of these various issues took time, as all relevant Bank
- 11 -



departments had to be consulted. But on the whole, the lending performance by the Bank for the electricity
generation component was satisfactory.
On the other hand, the privatization and sectoral reform components were not adequately prepared. While
an appropriate process was started, with consultants' studies being designed for both the electricity and
hydrocarbons sectors, and agreement had been reached with the Government on the general objectives of
privatization and reform, there was far less agreement on specifics or progress on legislation than was
typical in other privatization projects. This reflected the fact that the project timetable was driven by the
electricity generation component. The implicit view seemed to be that as agreement had been reached on
broad objectives, all that remained to be done was to resolve technical issues, which could be handled
through consultants' studies.
The economic analysis methodology in the SAR was flawed and resulted in a highly inflated ERR estimate.
Thus, this part of project preparation was unsatisfactorv.
Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in lending can at best be called marginallv satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of this Project began equally intensively as project preparation (171 staff weeks in
FY 93, two-thirds of this financed by trust funds), and with the same team who were knowledgeable and
deeply committed to the Project. When the bids for the BOO were received, and the bidders proposed a
novel form of financing (using five-year CARIFA bonds, to take advantage of US Government incentives,
with an irrevocable take-out guarantee from the Bank and IDB), the issues were again raised to senior
management, which agreed to the Bank's first irrevocable take-out guarantee for longer than one year.
However, reaching consensus within the Bank (including on pricing the guarantee at 0.25% p.a.) took many
internal reviews, up to the level of the Managing Directors, and then a Loan amendment which was sent to
the Board of Directors on a no-objection basis. The Bank again showed great flexibility, but the prolonged
process was one of the sources of delay.
The Bank paid less attention to the technical problems of the JPPC plant. Under conventional investment
lending arrangements, the Bank would have objected to the fact that the equipment being purchased had
been proven only as 20 MW diesel generators, and the Project called for these to be scaled up to a pair of
30 MW diesel generators. But because (a) the decision was being made by the private-sector owners of the
plant, and (b) Bank financing was only to come in after the five-year CARIFA bonds had been repaid, the
Bank took more of a back seat in the technical decisions. When the losing bidder complained that the JPPC
equipment was unproven and its turn-key contractor inexperienced, the Bank handled it essentially as a
legal/procurement issue, and did not undertake any in-depth technical review of the wider implications. In
the event, that complaint was right on the mark, and largely explains the technical problems which JPPC
later faced. Although procurement documents were sent to the Bank as if the Bank were disbursing
directly, the Bank gave them a more cursory review than normal, for the same two reasons (a) and (b)
above, and would have been in a diplomatically weaker position had it objected to any of the procurement
documents.
The Bank's role in the Project remained intensive through FY 94 (with a total of 58 staff-weeks of
supervision), but dropped off sharply after the completion of JPS' GT- 10 plant and the financial closure on
the JPPS plant. Subsequently, there was a series of task managers, each responsible for little more than
one year on average, and supervision intensity dropped dramatically to an average of 10 staff weeks/year.
So the Bank's role was only marginal during the privatization and regulatory reform processes.
- 12 -



The Bank paid almost no attention to supervising the hydrocarbons sector: the mid-term review does not
even mention it. Supervision reports normally included a short reference to import liberalization but no
further analysis.
In the privatization of JPS, the Bank did pay attention to the most important substantive issue (whether or
not to divide the company), but not to the process issues. Although Bank staff were deeply involved in
these issues in other LAC countries at the same time, no effort had been made to draw upon their expertise.
Similarly, the Bank was not closely involved in the drafting of the OUR legislation. The Resident Mission,
which was in charge of project supervision in the latter half of 1996, impressed upon the Government on
several occasions the need to privatize JPS in an transparent manner, but without success. Bank
Headquarters, where the technical expertise was concentrated, did not send a supervision mission during
the crucial August 1995 - May 1997 period, when project performance rating dropped from "Highly
Satisfactory" to "Unsatisfactory". But it is unclear whether any Bank efforts could have had a major
impact on the process as the Government was resisting any material Bank involvement in this politically
sensitive matter.
There appear to be four reasons for the Bank's passivity during this crucial period. First, there were breaks
in staff continuity, including the transfer of supervision responsibilities to the Resident Mission and later
back to Headquarters. Second, the budget was insufficient to maintain high-intensity supervision, after
exceptional resources had been devoted during the previous years. Third, as there were no disbursements
linked to the privatizations and regulatory reform, the Bank did not have much leverage with the
Government on these matters. This was exacerbated by the irrevocable take-out guarantee, which further
reduced the Bank's leverage and also its incentive to supervise. Finally, as the country relationship had
begun to deteriorate when the Government moved away from Bank-supported reforms, the Bank was
devoting fewer resources to Jamaica in general, and the Government was not welcoming Bank involvement
in sensitive matters such as privatization.
After 1996, the main interaction between the-Bank and the Government on the Project consisted of the
Bank advising to resume the JPS privatization effort, strengthen the role of OUR and address tariff issues,
and the Government explaining that it was still committed to the private sector-based approach, but there
had been no acceptable bids for JPS, and that the performance contract between JPS and NIBJ forestalled
major changes in both regulatory and tariff areas. JPS and the Government felt that the Bank had become
dogmatic rather than helpful.
When it came to the need to make the final "take-out" disbursements in mid-1999, it was IDB, not the
Bank, which commissioned the technical review, at its auditors behest, that pointed out the problems with
the JPPC plant. As staff (especially engineers) and budgetary resources for supervision were a serious
constraint, the Bank should have worked out with IDB a division of responsibility (such as having the IDB
take the lead on technical aspects and the Bank on economic ones). Bank supervision missions did visit the
IDB offices in Kingston to report on their findings, but there is little evidence of any close collaboration
beyond that.
The July 1999 Quality Assurance group (QAG) rapid assessment gave the Project a "3" (marginal) for
"adequacy of supervision inputs and processes," although its overall supervision assessment was a "2"
(satisfactory). However, giving due regard to the Bank's absence during the critical period of the failed JPS
privatization, this ICR rates overall supervision performance as unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
- 13 -



This Project was an important learning experience for the Bank, although not all the main lessons have as
yet been internalized. The Bank made a major effort to develop an innovative and comprehensive
approach, and was willing to diverge from standard procedures. But the Project was too ambitious, and the
Bank gave inadequate attention to JPS' privatization, as well as the technical problems associated with
JPPC's investment. Affected by the deterioration in country relations, the Bank was unable to maintain a
productive dialogue with the Government on the Project. On balance, despite the extraordinary attention
given to the Project in the early years by senior management, overall Bank performance was no more than
marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The new Government, eager to reverse Jamaica's economic slide, recognized that Bank, IMF, and IDB
financing were needed, and also looked to these institutions for policy guidance. When the Bank proposed
BOOs and energy sector privatization, the Government was willing to go along with these new world-wide
trends, despite some internal reluctance. As its knowledge about these matters was limited, the Government
relied heavily on the Bank to prepare the Project. Its main concern was that additional electricity.
generation capacity be built quickly, to meet anticipated shortages. One of its main contributions to the
project design was getting the Bank to agree that the first 30 MW plant be built and initially owned by JPS,
so as to save time. This turned out to be the only project element that was implemented satisfactorily. The
Government also insisted that the BOO project developer be selected through competitive bidding, unlike
the practice in the preceding Pakistan Hub River project. Thus while the borrower played a much smaller
role in project preparation than is normal, its performance was satisfactorv.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's main responsibilities under the Project were to negotiate the BOO contracts, privatize
JPS and PetroJam, and introduce a modem regulatory system. It did very well in the first aspect, which is
impressive given the complexity of the financial engirieering required. This was achieved by designating a
highly qualified chief negotiator and giving him wide authority. But both privatizations failed, in the JPS
case largely because of the way that the Government handled it. OUR did not obtain any significant
authority during the life of the Project. Instead of OUR, the Government used NIBJ to monitor and guide
JPS, through a performance contract. While NIBJ helped to drive improvements in financial processes, the
entity lacked the technical expertise to have to have a broader impact on JPS. The Government also was
not forthcoming with the Bank, keeping it out of the JPS privatization process, and riot making available a
copy of the performance contract (in which it was stated that OUR would not be a real regulatory agency
until after three years) until the ICR mission. The Government's overall implementation performance must
therefore be rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
JPS performed well in regard to investment and operation of the GT- 10 plant, which was its main
implementation responsibility. It also played a major part in the successful negotiations with JPPC. As an
entity, JPS overall performned reasonably well, and electricity supply in Jamaica is reliable. Many
Jamaicans consider JPS the best- performing utility in the country. There has been major progress in
reducing outages, increasing generation capacity availability, reducing labor overtime costs, and improving
customer confidence. On the other hand, progress has been much less in reducing technical and commercial
losses and in downsizing administrative and customer service staff. JPS' main misjudgment was to expect
that costs could be reduced enough to meet its fmancial targets without tariff increases. Except for the fuel
price pass-through, tariffs for the past three years have been frozen in US$ terms (with a slight increase in
J$ terms in line with devaluation), with JPS' concurrence or even insistence, and JPS's financial results
have been inadequate. (In FY 99, the entity returned to profitability after incurTing net losses the previous
- 14 -



four years, but this reflected primarily a special tariff granted to enable JPS to repay consumers for
fuel-price overcharges in previous years, and hence this profitability is unlikely to be sustainable). As a
result, JPS has lacked the resources to make additional investments in generation. While this has not yet
imposed major supply problems, these may well occur within the next two-three years, before the next
generating plant comes on stream. Now that the three-year freeze on tariffs is over, JPS has submitted a
request to increase tariffs by about 13%. Because of its inadequate financial performance and the high risk
of electricity shortages in the next few years, JPS' performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The primary privatization and regulatory reform objectives of the project were not achieved. For this
reason, the overall Borrower rating is unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
A. BOOs/IPPs
1. BOOs/IPPs can be a useful vehicle to mobilize additional resources for the electricity sector and shift
the construction and technical performance risks to private investors. On the downside, structuring them
may require a lot of time and senior management attention, and involve numerous agreements (almost 350
in the JPPC case, as a result of the exceptionally complex financial engineering involved with the CARIFA
bonds), which is one reason why they are not necessarily a low-cost solution. The long-term PPAs on
which they are usually based can complicate privatization of the utility itself if the bidders object to
guaranteeing the PPAs and ask the Government to retain full responsibility for these commitments.
2. Technical problems - on account of selecting an inappropriate technology, such as slow-speed diesels in
JPPC's case - can arise in the private as well as public sectors. However, in an electricity system that
depends on the supply by private firms, this private failure can become a public problem. It is therefore
necessary for the Bank to pay adequate attention to the technical aspects of such projects, and also to
ensure that the main equipment suppliers and contractors are part of the investment consortium so as to
give them a greater stake in its success.
3. In lending to privately owned utilities, the Bank should avoid creating a new financial window which
might end up being used for only one transaction or a very small number of transactions. This is not an
efficient solution, especially where the financial intermediary does not have the sectoral expertise
beforehand, requiring great effort to create a then under-utilized structure.
4. When the Bank granted an irrevocable take-out guarantee, the main concerns expressed were about the
financial implications for the Bank. But the two real complications turned out to be operational. First,
because there were no immediate disbursements, the Bank felt it should play less of a role in exercising
tight technical/engineering supervision over implementation of investments. Second, when the Government
failed to comply with other conditions of the Loan, the Bank lacked leverage because it was not legally able
to close the Loan.
5. For moderate-sized projects, the savings from complex financial engineering are likely to be outweighed
by their higher legal and administrative costs, combined with the losses due to the resultant delays. For
example, the winning bid for the BOO was to supply electricity at an average of USc6.91/kWh using the
cheaper CARIFA funds for five years, or USc7.48/kWh using the Bank/IDB loans immediately through the
Private Sector Energy Fund. But the additional legal and administrative costs incurred by all parties in
- 15 -



these 20-month negotiations more than offset those savings, and the final price, using the CARIFA funds,
turned out to be USc7.72/kWh. Even more seriously, the negotiation of the CARIFA funding delayed
financial closure and hence project start-up by as much as one year, forcing JPS to not only use "peaking"
plants for base load, but even to shed some load.
B. Privatization
6. Countries with successful privatizations have generally followed certain rules: (a) establishing the
required legal/regulatory framework beforehand, (b) setting a minimum price in advance for assets to be
privatized; (c) either evaluating on price only, or spelling out the exact evaluation criteria and weightings in
advance; (d) prequalifying all bidders who meet adequate standards, rather than limiting bidding to a short
list of firms; (e) giving potential bidders enough tirne prior to the auction; and (f) shortening the period of
negotiation afterwards. When these procedures are not followed, the risk of failure is high. A loan with
privatization as a major objective should not be made until the preparation for the privatization is
sufficiently advanced so that the Bank can (a) see that the overall approach is consistent with international
best practices, and (b) design specific conditionalities.
7. Long delays between prequalification of firms and issuance of bidding documents can result in firmns
losing interest and thus, not bidding, making the process less competitive. To avoid this, the bidding
documents need to be prepared ahead of, or simultaneously with, the prequalification process.
C. Bank Lending and Supervision
8. Innovative projects carry not only high costs (especially in terms of senior management time, for both
the Bank and the borrower), but also high risks of failure. They can also be expected to produce valuable
leamings. But there is likely to be an asymmetry between the Bank and the borrower, as the formner gets a
disproportionate share of the educational benefits, while the latter bears most of the risks.
9. While a comprehensive and innovative approach to sector development has obvious attractions, it may
exceed the country's administrative, technical, and political implementation capacity. It may also require
more supervision resources than the Bank is prepared to allocate, especially once the original, highly
committed Bank team has moved elsewhere. Furthermore, when one part of the project is more advanced
in preparation than others, it may be more appropriate to divide the operation and proceed with each part
only when it is ready.
10. As supervision resources are always a constraint, the Bank and IDB in co-financed projects should
work out a division of responsibility, instead of duplicating each other's efforts.
11. Care should be exercised in undertaking OED Performance Audit Reports prior to the ICR in question.
That was done in this case (in June 1998) because the Project had been substantially completed, even
though the Bank had not yet disbursed under the irrevocable take-out guarantee. But in the absence of an
ICR that had reviewed the project experience in detail and had the benefit of additional information from
the final two years before loan closing, OED's earlier examination rated the outcome as "marginally
satisfactory," the sustainability as "likely," and the institutional development as "substantial" -- all
conclusions more optimistic than those of this Report.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 16 -



Received on June 15, 2000
(b) Cofinanciers:
None received
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
Map IBRD 30858
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndkart   x                             in Pojecte In jr 5PSR      AdtallLs Estimate
None were defined in the SAR.
Output Indicators:
lndtomat"ix                     Prjce in kWs PSR                   Act_ eULatet Estkmate
End of project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million     US$ million
60 MW diesel plant (BOO)                               77.00          142.50
30 MW turbine (JPS)                                   23.90            23.20
30 MW turbine (BOO)                                    19.10            0.00
Transmission lines                                      7.00           12.70
Technical assistance                                    2.70            1.20
Total Baseline Cost                                   129.70          179.60
Physical Contingencies                                 7.80
Price Contingencies                                   18.60
Total Project Costs              156.10           179.60
Interest during construction     9.00
Total Financing Required               165.10          179.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category   |  II        Procurement Method           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         8.60         8.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                    27.60          0.00        117.20        0.00         144.80
(18.00)       (0.00)      (40.50)       (0.00)       (58.50)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.70         0.00         2.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)        (1.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     27.60         0.00        119.90        8.60         156.10
(18.00)       (0.00)      (42.00)       (0.00)       (60.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     lCB           NC8        Mther 2        NB.F.      Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         8.00         0.00          8.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                    170.40         0.00         0.00         0.00         170.40
(57.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (57.40)
3. Services                  0.70          0.00         0.50         0.00          1.20
- 19-



(0.70)         (0.00)         (0.50)         (0.00)         (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        171.10           0.00           8.50           0.00          179.60
(58.10)        (0.00)         (0.50)         (0.00)         (58.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
APPl aigal Estimate           "a   test Estimate        Percentage of Appraisal
:Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank   I  Govt       CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF      Bank   Govt.  CoF.
60MW diesel plant        40.50       0.00     36.50      40.50      0.00      102.00   100.0   0.0   279.5
30MW turbine (JPS)        19.50     4.40       0.00      16.90      6.30      0.00     86.7   143.2   0.0
30MW turbine              0.00      0.00       19.10     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Transmission lines        0.00       1.70      5.30      0.00       1.70      11.00     0.0   100.0  207.5
Technical assistanc       0.00      0.00       2.70      0.70       0.50      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Total baseline cost      60.00       6.10     63.50      58.10      8.50      113.00    96.8   139.3  178.0
Physical contingencies              1.90      5.90                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Price contingencies                4.40      14.20                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Total project cost/ Total  60.00    12.40     83.60      58.10      8.50      113.00    96.8   68.5   135.2
financing
0.0    0.0    0.0
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic rate of return (percent):        Appraisal                   Actual
26.0                       9.0
Financial rate of return:
Return on equity (percent)                 15.0                       10.0
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle       [        No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
MontYEar :       i  (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation      Development
________Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/15 - 9/1/1990                 2    1 energy specialist, I economist
10/1-10/1990                   3    1 energy specialist, I economist,
I fnance specialist
1/12-19/1991                   8    1 energy specialist, I economist,
1 finance specialist, 5
consultants
9/18-28/1991                    8    1 energy specialist, I economist,
I finance specialist, 5
consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/24-3/17/1992                 11    I energy specialist, 1
economist, I finance
specialist, I counsel, I
envirommental specialist, 6
consultants
3/30-4/10/1992                  7    1 team leader, I privatization
specialist, 1 capital markets
specialist, I regulatory
specialist, 3 consultants
6/10/1992                       1    1 teatn leader
Supervision
11/17-21/1992                   4   1 energy specialist, 3                HS                  HS
consultants
2/3-7/1993                      2   1 operations officer, I energy         HS                 HS
specialist
10/4-14/1993                    4   1 energy specialist, 1 finance        HS                  HS
specialist, 1 power engineer, 1
consultant
1/12-14/1994                    3   1 energy specialist, 1 finance        HS                  HS
specialist, 1 consultant
7/7-12/1994                     2   1 energy specialist, 1 consultant     HS                  HS
11/15-18/1994                   1   1 environmental specialist            HS                  HS
3/10/1995                       2   Joint WB/IDB mission                   H,S                HS
9/18-26/1995                    5   1 energy specialist, 1 power           HS                 HS
engineer, I project officer, I
environmental specialist, I
resident representative
5/5-16/1997                     2   1 project officer, 1 power             U                   S
engineer
5/4-14/1998                     3   1 energy economist, I project          U                   U
officer, I sector leader
9/27-10/3/1998                  1   1 energy economist                     U                   U
- 22 -



3/28-4/2/1999                  2   1 energy economist, 1 energy         U                 U
efficiency specialist
5/4-13/1999                    3   1 energy economist, I energy         U                 U
specialist, 1 sector leader
12/2-8/1999                    1  1 energy economist                    S                 S
ICR
1/31-2/8/2000                 2    1 energy economist, I
energy sector reform
specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              203.5                        348.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    53.4                         93.6
Supervision                             277.7                        791.6
ICR                                       6.5                         25.0
Total                                   541.1                      1,258.2
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
@ Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
* Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
3 Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
E Supervision                                         OHS OS  *U  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Supporting documents can be found in the Project File
- 26 -



WORLD BANK                             Annex 8
JAMAICA: ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION& PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT (ESDPP; Loan No. 3502-JM)
Implementation Completion Mission
Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.   A mission composed of Messrs. J.U. Richter (Sr. economist; task manager) and S.
Ettinger (Energy Sector Reform Specialist; consultant) visited Jamaica during January
31 - February 7, 2000, to carry out the field work for preparing the implementation
completion report (ICR) on above project. The mission met with the Hon. Robert
Pickersgill, Minister of Mining and Energy, and other officials of the Ministry of Mining
and Energy (MME), Ministry of Finance and Planning, Jamaica Institute of Planning
(JIOP), National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), Office of Utility Regulation
(OUR), Jamaica Public Service Corporation (JPS), Jamaica Petroleum Corporation (JPC),
Inter-American Development Bank and the two independent power producers (IPPs), i.e.,
the Jamaica Private Power Company (JPPC) and Jamaica Energy Partners (JEP) The
mission would like to express its appreciation of the cooperation received from all
parties. This aide memoire reflects the preliminary views of the mission, and has not
been reviewed by the World Bank.
Proposed Seminar on the Project
2.   Because ESDPP was the first World Bank loan to any country for an IPP, and the
project had broad sectoral objectives in Jamaica, the World Bank has selected this project
for "intensive learning" implementation completion. The main implication of this is that
the World Bank proposes that the ICR be the subject of a seminar in Jamaica, so that the
lessons learned and the implications for the future can be discussed with as wide a
Jamaican audience as possible. One option would be for this to be a narrowly-focussed
seminar, discussing only the ICR. When the mission raised the matter with the
authorities, there was broad support on their part for the idea of making this a more
extensive exercise, covering the important issues relevant to the Jamaican energy sector
(e.g. economics of IPPs, functioning of an autonomous regulatory system, benefits and
costs of total or partial privatization of JPS, results to date of the JPS performance
contract with NIBJ, scope for competition in the sector, restructuring of JPS,
diversification of fuels for power generation, scope for co-generation, demand-side
management). This would be the first such seminar in Jamaica since 1991. The
authorities emphasized that this seminar should be (a) collaborative between Jamaica and
the World Bank, (b) objective and based on actual experience in Jamaica and comparable
countries and (c) well-focussed on the principal issues and forward-looking. The
possibility of it being Caribbean-wide was also raised. Several alternatives for the lead
Jamaican agency were discussed (NIBJ, MME, JIOP, OUR). Upon return to
Washington, D.C., the mission will discuss the alternatives for the proposed seminar
within the World Bank, particularly with respect to its financing, possible dates (i.e., by
- 27 -



June 2000), countries whose experience is most relevant for Jamaica, and potential
international presenters, and will contact the authorities regarding these matters.
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
3.   As the ICR is meant to be a collaborative exercise, considerable importance is
given to the borrower's contribution (i.e., the section "The Project from the Borrower's
Perspective"). The mission understands that preparation of this section by the relevant
institutions (MME; NIBJ; JPS; JPPC) and their coordination by JPS is well underway,
and looks forward to receiving this contribution by February 25, 2000.
Background
4.   ESDPP needs to be seen in terms of two important developments in 1390-92 when
the project was prepared and appraised. First, within Jamaica, there was serious concern
about anticipated electricity shortages and the lack of resources within either JPS or
Government to make the necessary investments in generation to prevent this. Second,
internationally, this was the period when IPPs were beginning to receive attention, and
were seen as a means of both relieving electricity shortages and introducing the
efficiency benefits of the private sector. ESDPP was thus a natural "fit" for Jamaica.
Much has been learned about IPPs during the 1 990s, and an energy sector reform project
today would be designed quite differently, but care must be taken in judging the decisions
made in 1990-92 based on knowledge gained since then.
ESDPP Strategy
5.  In respect to the electricity sector, ESDPP pursued a five-stage strategy: (a) meet
the immediate needs of JPS with a 30 MW combustion turbine plant; (b) introduce IPPs,
via a 60 MW slow-speed diesel turbine plant, (c) expand the use of IPPs via the second
30 MW combustion turbine plant; (d) establish an independent regulatory system; and (e)
privatize JPS. An additional element was (f) the privatization of the PetroJam ref;nery.
In this framework, the results can be summarized as follows: objective (a) was achieved
satisfactorily; (b) was achieved, but with serious problems; (c) was achieved, but outside
of the project; (d) appears to be on the verge of being achieved, after several years' delay;
(e) and (f) were not achieved, and are not likely to be achieved in the near fuiture .
JPS Gas Turbine (GT) at Hunts Bay Plant
6.   This component, which utilized about a third of the Loan, was procured and
installed in one year, and helped avert power shortages. Its cost was reasonable and
technical problems minor, so it can be considered a success. We understand that, as the
generation capacity constraint tightens, this plant is beginning to be used more than
intended for base load (like all the GT plants, it has relatively low investment and high
operating costs, and hence is most economical for meeting peak demand; however, as the
1 Objectives (e) and (f) were formally removed in the mid-1999 second amendment to the Loan
Agreement.
- 28 -



GT plant with the lowest operating costs, it comes first among them in the order of
economic dispatch).
JPPC Rockford Plant
7.   This plant was constructed as the first IPP in Jamaica, and the experience Jamaica
gained on how to design and negotiate IPPs was quickly applied to two other projects.
The structuring of the deal also protected JPS financially against the loss due to delays
and technical problems. Nevertheless, the result has to be considered unsatisfactory, in
four important ways:
(a) Implementation took a year longer than anticipated (four years instead of three
from loan approval), in large measure because of the difficulties in obtaining inteemal
clearances within the World Bank and the complexity of the financing arrangements
under the CARIFA bond scheme. As a result, many private firms which had expressed
initial interest lost patience and dropped out of the bidding. The delay would have been
more costly if the JEP Old Harbour project had not been implemented rapidly and come
on stream earlier than JPPC;
(b) The supply price to JPS under the power purchase agreement (PPA) is quite
high (average USc 8.5/kwh anticipated for the year 2000), despite this being the most
fuel-efficient plant in Jamaica. Taking into account transmission and distribution costs
and losses, this means that JPS will be losing about UScl.5/kwh on this power at current
tariffs, and would barely break even if it receives the tariff increase it is in the process of
applying for. The relatively high cost is the result of (i) the high capital cost of the
project (US$2,250/installed kw), which in turn was caused by investors' perception of
Jamaica country risk, the paucity of bidders, the high transaction costs in putting the deal
together (which ultimately involved 250 contracts), and the fact that the technology was
prescribed and the investors therefore not allowed to search for lower-cost technical
solutions, and (ii) the interest rate of LIBOR + 3% being charged on the World Bank and
IDB funds (following refinancing of the lower-interest five-year CARIFA bonds), which
in turn is partly the result of the need to use a financial intermediary (NIBJ) because of
the two banks' rules. This costing does not take into account the large amount of scarce
senior management time spent on this project both in the World Bank and Jamaica;
(c) The JPPC plant encountered a series of technical problems which resulted in
high forced outages and failure to achieve the rated capacity. This was mainly the result
of a poor choice of equipment suppliers by the project developers, who themselves were
not primarily technical entities. Under their more usual direct lending arrangements, the
World Bank and IDB might have objected to the fact that the engines being purchased
had never really been proven before, but because (i) the decision was being made by the
private-sector owners of the plant, and (ii) World Bank and IDB financing was only to
come in after the CARIFA bonds had been repaid, these institutions took more of a back
seat in the technical decisions, as well as in technical supervision during implementation.
It appears that the plant is finally approaching its rated capacity and its management is
getting control over other technical problems;
- 29 -



(d) Rather than contributing to furthering sector reforms, the IPPs, because of their
PPAs, may actually be having an inhibiting effect on such reforms. This first arose
during the negotiations on the privatization of JPS, when the two bidders objected to
guaranteeing the PPAs, and asked that Government accept full responsibiliity for them.
This was reportedly one of the reasons the privatization failed. A future impact may arise
if JPS implements successfully its plans to transform its generation plants into "profit
centers," and introduce competition between them, because the PPAs essentially protect
the IPPs and let them stay out of any such competition.
Regulatory System
8.   The Government established OUR as the regulatory institution in 1996-97, but at
that point did not give it substantial authority over the electricity sector, retaining control
over tariffs in MME/Cabinet, and involving NIBJ in a monitoring role through its
performance contract with JPS. Because of the professional and objective manner in
which OUR has carried out those more limited tasks assigned to it, growing public
acceptance, plus the fact that the three-year moratorium on structural tariff increases (as
stipulated in the performance contract) is coming to an end on March 3 1, the mission has
been informed that the Government will soon be proposing new legislation to give OUR
full regulatory authority over the electricity sector including for tariffs. (Similar
legislation for the telecommunications sector is now under debate in Parliament). The
mission welcomes this development, as experience in many countries has shown the
value of independent regulation of public utilities.
JPS Privatization
9.   Successful privatizations of utilities in other countries have normally involved
substantial time spent up-front, to establish a minimum sales price, spell out the
conditions (e.g. tariffs, regulatory system) under which the private enterprise would
operate, and establish clear criteria for evaluation of the bids. They have also required
giving sufficient time (at least three - four months) for potential bidders to become fully
acquainted with the properties they would be bidding for. As a result, the government
authorities would require very little time after bid opening to select the winning bid
(which is important because this is the very period during which leaks can occur and
political and business pressures be brought to bear). In the case of JPS, the timing seems
to have been rather the reverse, with inadequate time spent beforehand and too much
spent negotiating, which may account in large part for the lack of success. In addition, in
the course of the bidding process, the authorities seem to have allocated inadequate
resources to the preparation, execution, and final decision on this process, compared to
those allocated to the IPP/PPA process.
J.PS Performance, 1997-2000
10. Upon receipt of a copy of the JPS performance contract and of the related progress
reports, the mission will be able to form a more informed opinion of how well JPS has
been doing, to be incorporated into the ICR. Based on current limited knowledge, the
mission concludes that major progress appears to have been made in certain areas
(reducing outages, increasing generation capacity availability, reducing labor overtime
- 30 -



costs, improving customer service and confidence), but less so in others (reducing
technical and commercial losses, downsizing administrative and customer-service staff).
Given JPS' decision in 1996/97 to forego any structural tariff increases for three years,
the net financial result has been inadequate, and JPS has hence not been in a position to
plan its expansion of generation with sufficient lead time.
Lessons Learned
11. The principal lessons are as follows:
(a) While IPPs can often mobilize capital not otherwise available to a developing
country, this tends to be at a high price, especially where it involves complex financial
engineering;
(b) IPPs with long-term power purchase agreements (which are normally
considered necessary to attract investment) can complicate and even impede broader
sector reform;
(c) Private investors should be given flexibility in devising technical solutions to
investment proposals, but adequate attention should be paid to ensuring that the chosen
equipment has a proven track record;
(d) Making a Bank loan to a single beneficiary through a financial intermediary
with limited sectoral expertise can add more costs than benefits;
(e) inadequate up-front time spent preparing for privatization tends to increase the
chances for failure; and
(f) While the Project was timely for Jamaica in terms of preventing electricity
supply shortages, there are disadvantages to experimentation, in terms of high learning
costs.
12.  The contents of this aide-memoire are subject to confimiation by World Bank
management.
Joerg-Uwe Richter (Task Manager)
Stephen J. Ettinger (Consultant)
Kingston, February 7, 2000
- 31 -



c9I2ma~~~f. Public Service Company, Ltd.
6 KNUTSFORD BOULEVARD. P O. BOX 54, KINGSTON, JAMA CA Annex 9
TELEPHONE: (876) 926-3190, TELEX: 2180, CABLE; JAMSERV, TELEFAX (876) 926-6710
June 21, 2000
Mr. Joerg-Uwe Richter
Project Officer
World Bank
Washington D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Richter
Energy Sector Reform & Privatization Project (ESDPP) Draft ICR - request for
comments
Further to your submission to Professor Shirley of May 25, attached are comments from
JPSCo.
Yours sincerely
Hopeton Heron
Director - Corporate Services
DIRECTORS  PROF GORDON SHIRLEY (Cha-rrnan), DERRICK DYER (Manacgmg Director), PAUL E. AFFLICh,
GRACE A. ASHLEY. DR. THE HON. CARLTON DAVIS, EEVON R FRANCIS, BASIL NELSON. DERRICK WEBB
- 32 -



Review of World Bank loan #3502 -
Implementation Completion Report ICR
An objective review of the report submitted by the Bank would have to conclude that this
Progranmme overall was less than successful, especially as it relates to sector reform and
privatization as it was originally conceived.
Our specific comments are as follows:
Principal Perfornance Rating
The principal performance rating is questionable and appears to be lacking in balance.
Since the ratings are inherently subjective it is difficult to critique, however, the Bank's
satisfactory performance rating for itself is incomprehensible in view of the
comprehensive list of failures recorded in the Bank's report.
In light of the revised project objectives in 1999, and the overall performance of the
project, it seems plausible that the project should be given an overall rating of
satisfactory.
Achievements of Objectives and Outputs
The report states that the "Government became disillusioned about IPPs" (page 5). It is
more correct to state that "JPS was dissatisfied about IPPs because of high cost and
technical problems.
Sector Reform
To state " OUR stepped in, ruled that this was not correct... to JPS" is misleading. What
in fact occurred was a legal determination that it was incorrect and the OUR contributed
to the resolution of the issue.
Financial Rate of Return (Page 8)
JPSco experienced losses of 17% and not 19% as was indicated.
To state that the return on equity for the JPPC investment is unlikely to be much over
10% is too subjective for an indicator that is measurable. Therefore it is too speculative
to warrant a place in the report.
- 33 -



Institutional Development Impact
The statement "JPS lacked the resources to expand generation, and JPSCo now faces the
risk of shortage in coming years" is a distortion of the situation. It is rnore correct to state
that "because of JPS financial position, it may experience difficulty in expanding its
generating capacity in the coming years."
Factors generally subject to implementing Agency Control
While we agree that losses and administrative costs have not been significantly reduced,
demand for growth have never been underestimated. We do not agree that there is an
eminent supply crisis in the future because of any of the reasons mentioned.
Transition Arrangements to Regular operations (Page 1 1)
It should be pointed out that the request submitted for a tariff increase is 12% and not
13%. (Page 14)
- 34 -



NATlONAL INVESTMENT BANK OF JAMAICA LYMITED
CQMMENTS ON WORLD BANK DRAFT ICR-
ENERGY SECTOR DREGULATION & E              AITSATTON PRO.ECT
Backgrou-nd
In response to a World Bank Request, NIBJ is submitting conmments on the dratt Implementation
Completion Report for -the Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatisation Project which was
undertaken by the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) with assistance from both the World Bank and
the IDB. NIBJ has commented on a few specific areas, but it should be noted that lack of
comment by us on any particular area of the ICR does not necessarily imply acceptance of the
findings of the ICR in those areas.
General
NIBJ's general comment is that the ICR presents a good assessment of the World Bank's
performance under the project, but that the assessment of the GOJ's performance is coloured by
the fact that the Government chose, particularly with respect to the issue of privatisation, to
pursue a pal that aid not conform with the World Bank's view of what was appropriate.
However, as the ICR iTself demonstrates in its assessment of the privately-implemented JPPC 60
MW plant versus the JPS-implemented 30 MW plant, it cannot be assumed that privatisation
along traditional lines will always prove more effective in achieving objectives than other means.
It is natural, given its global activities, that the World Bank will have a preference for seeing
activities such as privatisation implemented according to a standard formula as this makes it easy
for its staff to move from projects in one country to another. However, -GOJ must give
consideration at all times to what wvill prove most effective for the country.
TPS Privatisation
There are three factual e*rors in the part of section 4.1 dealing with privatisation:
(i)   The bidding documents invited only proposals for 56% of JPS as an integrated company,
not for all or one!part of the company as stated in the ICR.
(ii)   No negotiations were initiated with any of the bidders. The privatisation team, accepted
proposals, sought clarifications on the proposals and made a recommendation to the
Government. After reviewing the report the Government determined that neither of the
two proposals were acceptable. It is therefore incorrect to say that there were 10 months
of negotiations.
(iii) The ICR is incorrect in saying that the Government wanted higher dividends than the
bidders were proposing. The Government did mention dividend policy as one of the
areas of dissatisfaction, but this was in fact because it believed the proposed dividends (in
the case of one ,idder over 100% of profit in the first three years) were too high and
would weaken the company financially.
- 35 -



.2
Section 8.6 sets out the World Bank's recommended formula for privatisation: (a) establishing
the required legal/regulatory framework beforehand, (b) sctting a minimum price in advance for
assets to be privatised; either evaluating on price only, or spellin8 out the exact evaluation
criteria anld weightins in advance; prequalifyiny all bidders vho meet adequate standards, rater
than limiting bidding to a short number of firms; (e) giving potential bidders enough time; and (f)
shortening the period of negotiations afterwards. The implication is that if the tOJ had not
deviated from the above formula the privatisation would have proved successful. In NIBJ's
judgemnent there is no reason to believe that the outcornme would have been any different if the
r01 had followed the aboi&e formula to the letter. It was not the process that t1h-rew the JPS
privatisatior off track; it was the content of the proposals received.
N_PIBXJPS Performance Contract
ILi s.ction 4.5 the ICR states that, because of a tariff-frecz- imposed on JPS Under the
performance contract, JPS lack-ed the resources to expand generation. I. wsas knownv; before the
performance contract -was executed thar there would be ro need for additional generating
capacity during the first three years of the contract. In fact daring the course of the contract there
has been capital expenditure to improve the existing generation plants, which has resulted in
significantly lower forced outage rates and significantly higher plant availabilitv. There has been
no issue of JPS being unable to implement any desired expansion as it has not sought to add any
new plant in the period. Also, section 5.3 says that JPS has underestimated demand grouth. As
far as N'1BJ is aware, JPS' demand projections have been ri,ht on target. The issue of possible
power shortages in the next couple of years does not stem from lack of financing or from
unexpected demand, rathcr it stems from differences in view as to how to meet the demand. nFS
has been confident that it can continue to adequately meet demand from the present generation
facilities until the introduction of the 120 MW coal plant, based on continued improvements in
plant availability and the restoration of de-rated plants to their original rated capacity. The
Government has taken a more cautious position and has asked JPS to pursue the implementation
of interim capacity.
We strongly disagree vith section 7.3, Nvhich states that NIBJ lacked both expertise and authority
to have much influence over nPS. As owners' represenrtative NIBJ has had far more influence in
JPS over the period of tho perforrmce contract than the OUR could ever have had as an
independent regulator. NIBJ has helped drive a number of very importarnt processes at JPS
including its asset revaluatiQn and the streamlining of its accounting and audit proc;sses and has
overseen a period of vast iri;provement in the reliability of JPS' service. We also take issue with
the rating of IPS' perfonmance as an implementing agency in section 7.6 as only marginally
satisfactory, given that this rating is based on factors that were outside the scope of the project.
Special Projects & lnfrastructure Unit
07 June 2000
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






1630'
78000                                  77030w               JAMAICA            7700'                           UN)      76
PROPOSED CONSTRUCION
ELECTRICITY  SYSTEM                                  PRO-EC     IB       STIN       TRANSMISSON UNES
Cari bbean  Seal                                             INSTALLATIONSNUN
INSTALLATIONS                                                              69 kVTRANSMISSION LINES
-18v30'  QU E E N S D               RI=                CARDIFFHILL                                                                 SUBSTATIONS      1830
g~~ - ,-~ 9<2_ MARTj        HAL                        BROAEP<= NGB                                                                         POWER PLANTS.
' ) [r _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVEORABE A 0                                                              DIESEL
E-BAY- GREATRIVER                                                                                       PPER W HIS
i  .   \  /                                                              R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIAvVE  HIGH    ANOTO SAY
O Negnil          | |PARADISE                                                                               \ STONE
Th>sm , \                                                                                                 PORTANTOINK)
MAGG~SeWOTTY    RSUNNYSID                                                 WASHINGTON BLVD.                          t
*  1SS                       Ro.                    KEa and NDAL                  MIC                         W. KINGS HOUSE RD. and
\UATFIAAIA  \~>                         I>'                      IARIGUAN  R                         CONSTANT                       \
\           \     ~~~~~~~~MANDEVIL  COFR                     STEEL MILLQ  ) TREDEA              PRING\ 
SPUR T                                      EY               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 BL20UEieetr
~~f~spaitofTh BR        0OU          A  E                                                          10NTI                 18MiIe
NICA/    >M                                                          Caribbean  ESea TRD                                 CANE
,t o tZE   .URAS       CAtribbeart  5ea           are>Mat CR I                                                                                R     10         MOKk
:>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WI  ICK H ,'                                                                                 RIE    RI ERean iby
_ -Itt t>tXCO OMBIA COOML.-,  .c  fsc    7o0                                                                                                       7d'30
'*~~~~~~~~~   0                                                                                  I                             ED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



