/  ,/\/                 71-7t.-&,  9 .J 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                  Report No. 10665-JM
Report No.  10665-JM   T'ype: (SAR)
BABBAR,  S / X32tJ29 / Q@18'7/ CFSPbS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
JUNE 11, 1992
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Division           Project Financing Group
Country Department III                                 Cofinancing and Financial
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office    Advisory Services
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                                       J Jamaica Dollar (J$)
US$                                                 J$ 24 (March, 1992)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENT
1 kilometer                                  =      0.6214 miles (mi)
I ton (t)                                    =      1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 pounds (Ibs)
1 kilovolts (kV)                             =      1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)                              -      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavelt (MVA)                             =      1,000 kilovolts-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                        =      1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                        =      1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilocalorie (Kcal)                         =      3.97 British Thermal Units (BTIJ)
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)                =      10,200 Kcal/Kg
I barrel fuel oil equivalent (BFOE)          =      .9524 barrel of oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BQJ              -              Bank of Jamaica
BPD              -              Barrels per day
CARICOM          -              Caribbean Community
CET              -              Common External Tariff
EA               -              Environmental Assessment
ESMAP            -              Energy Strategy Management Assessment Program
FSA              -              Fuel Supply Agreement
GOJ              -              Government of Jamaica
IA               -              Implementation Agreement
ICB              -              International Competitive Bidding
IDB              -              Inter-American Development Bank
JPSCo.            -             Jamaica Public Service Co.
LPG              -              Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC             -              Long Run Marginal Cost
MPUTE            -              Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy
NIBJ                            National Investment Bank of Jamaica
NRCA             -              National Resource Conservation Authority
PCI               -             Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica
PCR              -              Project Completion Report
PETCOM           -              Petroleum Company of Jamaica (Marketing)
PIOJ              -             Planning Institute of Jamaica
PPA               -             Power Purchase Agreement
PPU              -              Private Power Unit
REPL              -             Rural Electrification Programme Limited
RFP               -             Request for Proposals
USAID            -              United States Agency for International Development
GOJ AND JPSCo.'s FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Bonower:                 Govemment of Jamaica.
Beneficiuiia:            Jamaica Public Sevice Company.
Private sector subprojects, which meet the eligibility criteia and
qualify for financig, through the Private Sector Energy Fund to
be admnistere by the National Investment Bank of Jamaica.
AMt                      US$60 million equivalent.
Tema:                    Repayment over 17 years, including a 5 year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
OnlendineTerms:          1. The Govenmment of Jamaica (GOJ) will make the proceeds of
the loan available to JPSCo. at the Bank's standard variable
interest rmte and a fee of 0.5% per annum.
2. The onlendin; from the Fund to the eligible private sector
subprojects will be denominated in U.S. Dollars at an initial
inerestrate of 11% per annum, adjusted annually.
ftWect Dam w             7The proposed Project would comprise of: (a) the installation of
about 120 MW of power generation capacity consisting of a 60
MW low-speed diesel plant in the private sector and a 60 MW
combustion turbine plant, of which the first 30 MW would be in
the public sector and the second 30 MW would be in the private
sector; (b) the installation of associated transmission lines and
substaions; (c) establishment and opeaon of the Private Sector
Energy Fund to provide long-term financing for private power
projects; and (d) consulting seMrvs to: (i) assist in the operation
of the Private Sector Energy Fund; (ii) prepare the 60 MW diesel
power station and the second 30 MW combustion turbine unit for
solicitadon; (iii) assist GOJ in the solicitation, evaluation,
appraisal, negotiation and supervision of the private projects; (iv)
develop a contractual framework for the build-own-operate
projects and a regulatWy framework for the operation of the power
sector, and (v) develop and implement a privatization strategy for
JPSCo. and Petrojam.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



;Benefits:               The proposed Project would provide urgently needed capacity in
the powtr sector and mobilize signifiant cofinancing resources to
provide long-term financing to private sector energy projects. It
would establish a framework for the operation of privately owned
energy projects and assist in mobiliztng private debt and equity
capital for these subprojects. It would also support GOJ's
program of deregulation and privatization in the energy sector by
establishing a regulatory framework to enhance operating
efficiency and attract private investment thereby reducing public
sector investment.
BiSka:                   There are four major risks associated with the proposed Project:
(#) inadequate capability to appraise the two private sector
subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan, negotiate the
agreements required for the lenders' and investors' security and
supervise and monitor the subprojects. This risk would be
addressed through technical assistance being provided under the
Japanese Grant Facility and also a consultant to be financed under
the proposed Project; (b) unsatisfactory proposals being submitted
by private sector to develop and finance the two subprojects. In
order to minimize this risk, potential investors are being
prequifed to ensure that only qualified and capable sponsors bid
on each subproject; (c) financial closure may not be achieved in a
timely manner and consequently new investments would be
delayed. In order to minimize this risk and in recognition that
private power projects financed under limited recourse
arrangements is a untested approach in Jamaica, provision would
be made for the Fund to finance up to 100% of the debt financing
required for each subproject, while incentives would be given to
the potentkal sponsors to mobilize debt from other commercial
sources on ilimited recourse basis; (d) privatization of JPSCo.
and Petrojari could be delayed or hindered because of the limited
capacity of the local capital market and the inability to raise the
mtively brge amounts of capital required. Phased approaches to
uivestiture and incendves to attract foreign investors would be
explored in the privatization studies to mitigate against this risk.
Fnning aE2
aForgn  llm
(US$ million)
IBRD                -        60       60
IDB                 -        56       56
Private Sector    26          8       34
JPSCo.            1= _L
Totals          Al        1       l



-        iii               MII
SlSeet Cust:
GJ$ Miflion)          MuS Milfion!
Izal   E2ign   1x2W   Loul Foreign  1iD1
3 x 20Low SpeedDiesel     410.8  1313.2  1724.0  18.3    58.6  77.0
2 x 30 Combustion Turbine    193.0   771.2  964.2   8.6    34.4  43.0
Interconnection and
Trnusmission Facilties     39.0   118.0  157.0   1.7       5.3   7.0
Technical Assistance          -     60.5     u       -     2.7 1
Total Base Cost           642.9  2262.8  2905.7  28.7   101.0  129.7
Physical Contingencies     49.2   126.6  175.7   2.2       5.6   7.8
Price Contingencies       A712   _8W1  1358.6  1il         _.   18.
Total Project Cost       1164.0  3276.0  4440.0  40.9   115.2  156.1
Interest During Construcdon   -   256.3  256.3       -     9.  9_0
Total Financing Required  1164.0  3532.3  4696.3  40.9   124.2  165.1
EF  EY4 EM  Em6 E12
Annual (US$ M)       10      15     16      13      6
Cumulatve (US$ M)    10      25     41     54      60
Cumulative (%)      16.7   41.7   48.3     90    100
Esimatod EcononnS Bate  Rhetm   26%



-iv -
pagr, No.
Loan and Project Summary ..............................                   i
I.   T  ECONOMY
A.    Past Policies and Economic Pfm....            .........      1
B.    Remaining Reform Agenda           ............... ...        2
C.    SocialCst of Adjusimnt andPo vert Alviation  .......         3
II.   ThE ENERGY SECIR
A.    Insdtutions and Sector Oranization .................          3
B.    Eney Resources          .............................         4
C.    EnergyConsumptonand Supply ......... ..........               5
D.        ergyPricing .................                            7
E.    Rg      on of te Eny Stor           ...................       8
F.    Constraints to Pivat Sector Pardtion .....       ........     9
0.    Bank Invoivement in the Sector ................    ....       10
III.   POWER SECOR
A.    Electricity Supply System  ............... .                  11
B.    Og aon and Administrdon ...................                   14
IV.   THE PROJECr
A.      troject Settng . ..............................             15
B.    Project Objecives ............................                16
C.    lr.ject Description . .......................... .            16
D.    Prject Cost and Financing Plan ...................            16
E.    Engineering and Construction .. ................  ....        18
F.    ProectP ation and JmDlementadon..... ..  ........             18
G.    E     onnental Aspects .     ........................         20
H.   Pro ent and Disburent ......  ..................... .         21
I.    LssonsLaned fom Prvious Bank Opemions .......                24
This report was pqopd by Messrs. Suman Babbar (Task Manager), Abdemhmane Megateli,
(Sr. Financial     yst), David Baughman (Economist) and Mrs. Maria Elena Bamentos
(Operations Officer). Secretuial assistance was provided by Mmes. Maria-Elena Jonson and
Nagwa Aziz. The report bas been reviewed by Messrs. Chelib Khelil (LATIE), Alvaro
Covarrubias (LATIE), and Ismsil Dalla (EAlI)



Pae, No.
V.   JPSCo. FINANCES
A.   Intoduction ... .......... .                              25
B.   Electricity Tariffs ....... .   .....................     25
C.   Past Financial PerfoPmance ................c.....         26
D.   Investnent Programm  ...                        .         31
E.   Future Finances.....                                      33
F.    Other Financial Aspects .......                          35
VI.  PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY FUND
A.   Institudonal and Administradve Arrangements.              37
B.   Operational I mnework for Private Sector Subprojects      39
VII.  PRIVATI ZATION PROGRAM FOR THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Power Subsetr....                                           40
B. Petroleum Subsector   ..41
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .42
B. Project Benefits    ..42
C. Project Risks  ..42
D. Economic Jusdficaton   .                .42
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENS REACHEv                                    44
AN-EXE    Page No.
2.1  -  JPSCo.'s Organization Chart     . . .                      47
2.2  -  Petroleum Crpotion of Jamaica
Group of Companies. ...                                  48
2.3  -  Energy Balance 1991 ........ ....................    49
2.4  -  Energy Sector PIice Data .........................         50
3.1  -  JPSCo.'s Installed Generating Capacity ................    51
3.2   -  JPSCo.'s Key Performance Indicators     ....              52
4.1  -          Droject Description ........ . . .53
4.2  -  Proect Cost Esdmates      . . .           .     .  .  .   .  55
4.3  -  ProjectlmplementationSchedule         . ....               57
4.4  -  EnvironmentalAssesment -Sumnmary...                        58
4.5   -  Selecdon of Subproject Developers ...                     66
4.6  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .      ...68
5.1   -  ElectricityPricing..    ...                               69



-vi-
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
page No.
5.2  -  JPSCo.'s Acmual and Forecast Income Statements .........  72
5.3  -  JPSCo.'s Anual and Forecast Sowrces and Uses of
Application of Funds Statements .....................    73
5.4  -  JPSCo.'s Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet Statements .....    74
5.5  -  JPSCo.'s Capital Investment Program 1992V93-1996197-
Sources of Finances    .............................     75
5.6  -  JPSCo.': Cash Flow Statements 1992/93-1996/97 .........   76
5.7  -  JPSCo.'s Financial Indicators 1986/87-1996/97 ...........  77
5.8      Key Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections .......   78
6.1  -  Institutional Responsibilides for Subprojects    ..    80
6.2  -  Subloan Approval Process Flow Chart        .      .       81
6.3  -  Five Year Projections for NIBJ Private Power Unit ........    &
6.4  -  Operational Framework for Private Sector Subprojects .........   83
7.1  -  Terms of Reference for Power Sector Regulatory
Framework and Privadzation Study       .      . .        86
7.2  -  Terms of Reference for Deregulation of the Petroleum
Subsector and Privatization of Petrojam Study  . .       94
8.1  -  Economic Intemal Rate of Return ....................    102
8.2  -  Economic Internal Rate of Retun Calculation,
Assumptions, and Sensitivity Analysis ............   ..  106
8.3  -  Consumer's Wilhinpess toPay ......................        109
9.1   -  Documepts andonformnation in the Project File . .111
ME IBRD 23863



JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
STJFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L THE ECONOMY
A. Past Policies and Economic Performance
1.01    Jmaica, a small, oil-dependent economy with bauxite/alumina and tourism as its key
exports, exhibited significant volatility in its macroeconomic performance '-wer the past two
decades as a result of extemal shocks and inconsistencies in domestic polic..,.  ;ause of this,
the overall fiscal accounts were continuously disrupted, generating unsustainab,e domestic and
external imbalances. On the external side, the economy was adversely affected by sharp changes
in its terms of trade, rapid increases in the US dollar value of its outstanding external debt because
of the depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis other OECD currencies and, more recently, declines
in net foeign financing. On the domestic side, successive governments acted to expand effective
demand as a means of m-aintaining economic growth in spite of adverse external shocks.
H,owever, these expansionary policies had to be followed by stabilization programs that sharply cut
output growth. Significant distorions such as high tariffs, interest rate subsidies, discretionary
duty exemptions, price and exchange controls and public monopolies were not addressed. The end
result was low efficiency of resource use and investment, as reflected by weak economic
performance in spite of rather high investment rates of over 20% of GDP. Moreover, the public
sector expanded, crowding out the private sector and increasing the extemal debt, which doubled
between 1980 and 1985, reaching US$4 billion, which in ,  capita terms ranks Jamaica as one of
the most highly indebted counties in the world. Poor economic performance led in 1986 to the
cancefllation of an IMF standby arrangement, the suspension of Bank lending, and a halt to debt
rescheduling discussions. The Bank's adjustment lending to Jamaica during the first half of the
1980s was documented in OED's program performance audit report on the country. Its main
conclusion was that the Bank's three SALs to thoe country should have established a better balance
between domestic adjustment and foreign borrowing.
1.02   In 1986, GOJ began to address the pressing economic issues. Aided by a decline in oil
prices and a recovery in mineral epor, the economy began to expand with GDP growth of over
3% per annum during '1986-88. GDP growth would have been higher had it not been for the
devastating effects of Hurricane Gilbert in 1988. The external current account deficit was
significantly reduced to an average of 4% of GDP during 1986-88 from 17.5% in 1985, while the
overall public sector deficit was also sharply reduced in 1986-87 to 5.5% or GDP. It grew again
in 1988 to 13.5% of GDP because of post-hurricane and election related incrases in expenditures,
financed mainly from external sources. Government expenditures continued even though this
financing was tansitory. As extenal inflows began to taer off, the country's foreign exchange
reserves were gradually depleted.
1.03   The newly-elected Manley Government did not move speedily enough to address the
fiscal imbalances although it did advance rapidly to remove distortions in the incentive system.
Interest subsidies were eliminated and the financial sector regulatory framework and instruments
for monctary polcy were strengthened. Most prices and marketing and distribution channels were
deregulated, general food subsidies were removed, most quantitative restrictions and trade
monopolies were eliminaed, and tariffs were reduced to the Caribbean Community's (CARICOM)
Common Extern  Tariff (CEl) maximum of 45%. In September 1990, the Govenment adooted a
market-determined exchange rate regime based on interbank transactions. Because it did not
tighten fiscal and monetary policies sufficiently, the rate began to depcite rapidly and inflation



-2 -
increased In September 1991, GOJ eliminated all exc.hange controls and the rate rose sharply. By
early March 1992, the rate had reached J$24 per US dollar from J$5.5 per US dollar in late 1989.
B. Remaining Reform Agenda
1.04   The key objective to Jamaica's reform agenda is to focus again on achieving sustained
improvements in the public finances. This is crucial for macroeconomic 3tability and to improve
the investment climate and speed up the supply response to many sectoral reforms being
undertaken. The Government needs to quickly eliminate its oveall public scctor deficit, and
external financing should basically refinance amortizations. As time passes, the Government will
need to generate a fiscal surplus so as to reduce the debt overhang, anTest inflationary pressures and
stop the crowding out of the private sector. On the revenue side, the country already has a large
tax burden. The main need is to rationalize the tax structure and make it less distortionary and to
improve efficiency. The r-cent introduction of the General Consumption Tax is a major step in this
direction, but there is a need to broaden the tax base, improve tax collections and eliminate
distortions, particularly through tariff and customs reforms. On the expenditure side, GOJ needs
to continue aid accelerate its program of divesting assets and stock in commercial, financial,
agriculturWal and industrial enterprises. It also needs to eliminate remaining transfers and subsidies,
introduce automatic, full-cost recovery in all public utilities and in the provision of services,
including agriculture and infrastructure, and focus its subsidies on the very poor. This package of
reforms is being supported by an IMF Standby Agreement and sector adjustment loans from the
Bank. These include the Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3303-JM,
US$30 million) and a proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan (proposed US$60
million), scheduled for Board consideration in FY93. Under the IMF program, a fiscal surplus of
1.7% of GDP is targeted for 1:' '2/93, compared to a deficit of 0.7% of GDP for 1991/92. Fiscal
surpluses are also targeted for FY94 (2.0% of GDP) and FY95 (2.3% of CGDP). In terms of the
external balance, the current account deficit would be reduced under the program from 7.7% of
GDP in 1991/92 to 3.3% of GDP by 1994/95.
1.05    Consistent with these macroeconomic objectives, GOJ's medium-term strategy is based
on substantially reducing the size and scope of the public sector, and stimulating investment and
growth through the development of an efficient private sector. Import tariffs are still too high,
however, requiring strong actions to reduce protection, since Jamaica, like other CARICOM
countries, is now badly lagging behind the rest of Latin America. In addition, government
regulations and complex procedures continue to constrain business activity; the public sector is still
too large and the petroleum and sugar sectors, where the public sector plays a prominent role, are
still regulated. Inefficiencies in publicly-ow-ned utilities power and water) contribute to hidden
and explicit costs in the private sector. Thus, the remaining reform agenda focuses on further
improvements in efficiency, through trade policy reform, deregulation, privatization and the reform
of the legal and regulatory framework for tasiness, and creating an appropriate environment for
foreign and domestic investment. Refoz-.r-, in this area will address the elimination of barriers to
competition, streamlining of administrtive procedures and institutions. The Goveinment's
extensive privatization program covering public utilities and a large number of commercially
oriented entities and services, together with the deregulation of sugar, petroleum and power sectors
constitute a key component of the reform agenda. The proposed Project would support the
Govenmment's program in this area through deregulation of the energy sector and privatization of
two large Government-owned entities, Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSCo.), the electric
utility, and the Petrojam refinery. As part of this support, the Project will assist GOJ in the
formulation and implementation of a regulatory framework for the power and petroleum sectors,
prior to these planned privadzations. The Project is also supporting the creation of a framework to
attract private investment to the power sector, which will reduce the fiscal burden on the public
sector and meet the country's urgent power needs.



-3
C. Social Cost of Adfustment and Poverty Alleviation
1.06   While in the 1970s Jamaica's social indicators compared favorably to those of other
c3untries at similar income levels in Latin America, the economnc deterioration of the past 15 years
and adjustment programs in the 1982 adversely affected the level and quality of social services.
Real outlays in education and health declined by about 30% between 1981 and 1986. In 1988,
GOJ initiated, with Bank support, a medium-term Human Resourc.-s Development Program, with
a targeted social sector strategy in nutrtidon, public health, education, and employment. The recent
surge in inflation has impacted heavily on low income groups, necessitating a saronger GOJ effort
to expand social programs. The Bank is currently working with GOJ to design a safety-net
package to strengthen the above mentioned progmm, mainly through the restructuring of ongoing
Bank loans and concessional support fro- bilateral agencies. GOJ's objective is to gradually
improve titnd maintain minimum required levels of expenditures in the .?ocial sectors (health,
nutrition and education) consistent with fiscal targets and the prioritized Pubiuc S.;.tor Investment
Program. GO proposes substantial increase, in real terms, in toutlays for social sectors (health,
nutrition, education), by raising their share in the investment program from 13% in 1992/93, to at
least 18% by 1994/95.
IL THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Institutions and Sector Organization
2.01    The assignment of all energy matters to the Energy Ministry, which was undertaken in
1990, has significantly improved the coordination of energy sector policies. In January, 1992 the
Energy Ministry was merged with the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport and th,
responsibility for the energy sector assigned to the Ministzy of Public Utilities, Transport and
Energy (MPUTE). As a result of the merger, the Ministry is undergoing a reorganization. In
addition to its oversight esponsibilities for the power and petroleum sectors, MPUTE provides
data tO, and coordinates energy sector policies and plans with the Planning Institute of Jamaica
(PIOJ) to ensure proper integration of energy sector planning within national economic planning
and macroeconomic policies. In order to bring together various entities and agencies involved in
efforts to increase private sector partiipation in the energy sector, a Steering Committee for Private
Sector Participation in the Energy Sector was also established in 1990 under the chairmanship of
the Minister of Energyl.
2.02    Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited (JPSCo.) has the sole responsibility for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for public supply. In addition to JPSCo.,
there are a number of private independent generators of electricity who produce power for their
own consumption, ie., the bauxite companies, the Caribbean Cement Company, sugar estates and
hotels. Of these, only the bauxitr -ompanies are connected to the grid. However, they provide a
very iimited amount of elestricit, oa the national grid. Plans to connect the cement company with
the giid are currently being developed. An organizational chart for JPSCo. is presented in Annex
2.1.
2.03   The Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ) is a wholly owned state corporation
establis 'ed under the Petroleum Act of 1979, and is a holding company for several subsidiaries.
1 After t meger of the Energy Minisy vth the Public Utilities and Trport. Minisuy in Januaty, 1992 it is headed
by the Minister of Public Utili  Tr to and Energy.



-4 -
The PCJ group of companics is presented in Annex 2.2. The activides of PCI and its subsidiaries
incluide importing crude oil an4 petroleum products, reflning crude oil, exporting some products,
distribudon of petroleum products and cxploration, development and management of petroleum
resources. Its most important subsidiary is Petroam, which owns and operates the country's only
refinery. Petroiam was incorporated in 1982 when GOJ purchased the Kingston Refinery from
ESSO. PCI's other significant subsidiaries are the Petrleum Company of Jamaica (PETCOM), a
petroleum marketing subsidiary established in 1985, and Petronol, established in 1986, which
produces hydrous ethanol. In addition, Petrojam owns an ethanol production subsidiary in Belize,
and Petrojam Ethanol, Ltd, which markets ethanol and also produces fuel grade cthanol for export.
Following a strategic review of the company and its holdings in 1990, PCJ divested a number o;
non-energy related subsidiaries involved in activities which were consideid outside the scope of
its core functions, including PCJ Engineering which was involved in engineering services and PCI
Developments which was involved in developing real estate and other ventures. At the same time,
it reduced the size of its headquarters staff. The overall structure of petroleum product maiketing
and distribution is dominated by three local affLuiates of international companies with long-standing
operations in the Caribbean, ESSO, Shell and Texaco. PCM  s marketing subsidiary PETCCM has
only a small fraction of the retail distribution market.
2.04   The Ministry of Tourism and Environment is responsible for environmental affairs,
although environmental protection has in the past been handled by several government agencies
which report to their oversight ministries. The Natural Resource Conservation Division, under the
Ministry of Agriculture, has undertaken much of the envirnnmental management work until
recently. Its functions cover formulation Cu policy relating to wildlife protection, watershed
management and coastal zone protection, and national parks. It also oversees the implemertation
of policies hrough su-vey and invedtigative work. The Environmental Control Division of the
Ministry of Health is responsible for monitoring pollution sources, setting standards, and carrying
out assessments of water quality, effluents, and emissions. In early 1991, GOJ enacted the
Nadonal Resource Conservation Authority Act and created the Nadonal Resource Conservation
Authority (NRCA). Under the new law, NRCA would effectively have responsibility for all
environmental affairs and enforcement of standards in the country and the activities of those
agencies previously involved in environmental protecdon would eventually be subsumed under
NRCA. GOJ is in the process of setting up NRCA. In addition to NRCA, various non-
governmental organizations nave been formed or have become actively involved in environmental
issues.
B. Energy Resources
2.05   Jamaica's sources of indigenous energy are limited, comprised of relatively small
hydropower potential, bagasse and peat. Hence relies on imports, mosdy oil, to meet the bulk of
its energy needs. H vd      potendal in the country amounts to about 114 M%J, of which 24
MW have been developed to date, which represents abont 4% of total installed genemtion capacity.
There are currently nine hydroelectric power plants, ranging in capacity from about .2 MW to 6
MW. Hydropower potental which may be economically developed during the next 15-20 years is
estimated at about 90 MW. The most prominent among the potental hydropower schemes is the
Back Rio Grande which has a potendal of about 30 MW. &a is the only indigenous fuel available
in Jamaica in relaively significant quantddes. The main peat deposits are located in Negril and it is
esimated that they are capable of providing sufficient fuel for a 90 MW power station for 30 years.
However, the economic viability of peat development has not been proven and the adverse
environmental implications of its development are serious due to the proximity of the deposits to
the Negril tourist area Additional energy resources include substantiaI amounts of bagasse, which
is used by the sugar industry as fue or industral steam and electricity generation, as well as
fuelwood which is used pimarily for making charcoal and is also burned directly by households.
GOJ has taken several iitiatives to broaden and develop the country's indigenous sources of
energy. Bilateral (CIIDA) and multilateral (IBRD and IDB) donors have supported the search for



- -
oil and gas. On-shore drilling has been carried out by international companies, but all wells were
completed as dry holes. In 1981, the Bank financed an exploradon project to attract private
investors by providing the basis for further exploration (para 2.24). Only one well wvas drilled by
a US/Italian consortium, and no discovery was made. As a result, drilling programs were totally
suspended in 1984. Barring significant discoverik.s of oil and gas or unforeseen technological
breakthroughs, the country will condnue to rely on imported oil to meet most of its energy
requirements during the next two decades.
C. Energy Consumption and Supply
Cona=ution
2.06   The Jamaican economy is highly energy intensive, and hence Jamaica's level of energy
consumption per capita is high in comparison with countries at a similar income level. In 1989
Jamaica's per capita consumption of commercial energy was 902 kg of oil equivalent compared to
546 kg for Tunisia, 331 kg for'fhailand and 336 kg for the Dominican Republic. This is primarily
because of the requirements of the highly energy-intensive bauxite/alumina industry which
accounts for a substantial portion of the country's energy use. The energy balance for 1991 is
presented in Annex 2.3. Table 2.1 below presents gross energy consumption for the period 1983-
91:
Table 2.1: Gross Energy Consun=tion (1983-91)
983          1221        Average Annual
MilL    %      MilL    %    Growth Rates (%)
Sector   BP0E 1MmiE  BFOE I MMhX  .1983-1991
Bauxite                 5.59     37   7.47     36          3.7
Transport               2.01     13   2.90      14         4.7
Industry                2.66     18   1.98      14        -3.6
Households               .81      5    1.54     7          8.4
Commerci    & Gov't     .27       2    .61      3         10.7
Odther Sectrs & Bunkers    .60    4    .42      2         -4.4
Losses (Total)          IN 20    AM 4A 642
TOTAL             152A    lO   19.5    .Q             Ii
I Barrels of fuel oil equivalent
Total gross consumption increased at an average annual rate of 3.1% during the period 1983-91,
from 15.24 million barrels of fuel oil equivalent (BFOE) to 19.53 million BFOE. Of this, the
bauxite industry accounted for 36%, the transport sector 14%, other industry 14%, households
7%, commercial and govemment 3%, and other sectors and bunkers 2%. Losses accounted for
about 24% of the total. Net of losses, final energy use in 1991 amounted to about 14.9 million
BFOE.
2.07   Ekticiv. Cowsumption of electricity, as measured by sales, has increased at an average
annual rate of 4.3% during the period 1980-91. However, sales have fluctuated during this
period, primarily reflecting changes in economic performance and retail tariff levels. During the
period 1980-85, which was characterized by slow GDP growth and high petroleum prices
following the second oil shock and recession in industrial countries, sales increased modestly at a
rate of 2.3% per year. This low sales growth also reflects the impact of two adjustments in the
electricity tariff m 1984, one which increased tariffs on average by 40% and another which



-6-
increased tariffs by 54%. The fact that these two tariff increases, which more than effectively
doubled the average tariff faced by consumers, were implemented in the same year led to a long
period of no tariff adjustments, during which sales increased much more rapidly. During the
period 1985-91, sales increased at an average annual rate of 6.1%. In addition to the lack of a
tariff adjustment from 1984 to 1990, sales during this period were also bouyed by higher GDP
growth. This increase in consumption occurred despite the negative impact of hurricane Gilbert
during 1988/89, which led to a decline in sales for the fiscal year 1988189 during which electricity
service was interrupted for an extended period in nmy parts of the island.
. (8   P&troleum Products.Given the dominant share of petroleum consumed by the bauxite
sector where it is used to generate steam and electricity required for the production of alumina,
consumpdon of petroleum products, particularly fuel oil, varies substantially with bauxite
production. Table 2.2 below presents consumption for the period 1980-1991.
Table 2.2: Consuntion of Petroleum Products
(Million Barrels)
Averag Annualw   (%)
.mdM         m1         8    12   1980    198691 198081
Jet Fuel       .76      .93    1.18     3.4     4.9      4.1
LPG             .35     .40    .50      2.3      4.6     3.3
Kerosene        .28     .40    .23      6.1   -10.5    -1.8
Gasolene       1.35    1.57   2.12      2.5      6.2     4.2
Diesel         1.51    1.34   2.33    -2.0    11.7       4.0
Fuel Oil      11J.2 1    6    146       8      121       Q,
TOTALS      Lim    11.0        82      5 4     9 9
As seen from the table, the majority of petroleum consumption is in the form of fuel oil, which
ranges from 60-75% of total consumption. Besides the bauxite companies, a significant portion of
fuel oil (about 30%) is consumed by JPSCo. From 1980-86, total product consumption declined
by an average annual rate of about 5.4%, from about 15.5 million barrels of oil equivalent in 1980
to about 11.1 million barrels in 1986. This decline was primarily a reflection of the significant
decline in the bauxite/alumina output caused by unfavorable intemational market conditions. From
1986-91, however, consumption of petroleum products increased rapidly at an average annual rate
of about 10%, reaching 17.8 million barrels in 1991. Consumption m other sectors (i.e. excluding
bauxite) increased slightly from 4.25 million barrels in 1980 to 4.64 million barrels in 1986
reflecting the impact of negative GDP growth in 1980, and again in 1984-88. Thereafter,
consumption in other sectors increased to 6.36 million barrels by 1991, reflecting increases in
GDP growth and a fall in international oil prices. Increases were greatest for transport fuels
(gasoline and diesel), and to a lesser extent, non-bauxite fuel oil consumption.
2.09   Given the country's limited energy resources, imported oil has been the predominant
source of commercial energy supply for Jamaica for many years, which renders the economy
extremely vulnerable to international oil price increases or disruptions in supply. In 1991,
imported oil accounted for about 83% of Jamaica's total net primary energy supply (commercial
and non-commercial) of 21.2 million batrels of fuel oil equivalent. The remainder of the supply
was accounted for by non-commercial sources (16%), which includes fuelwood and bagasse, with
a small contribution from imported coal and hydroelectric power (1%). The country's energy
supply vulnerability was demonstrated recendy whzn, as a result of oil price increases stemming



-7 -
from the Gulf War, the cost of petroleum imports jumped from US$273 million in 1989 to about
US$400 million in 1990. This increased the percentage of foreign exchange earnings from goods
and non-factor services required for oil imports from about 13% to 18%, and resulted in a
significant strain on the balance of payments. In 1991 about 6.6 million barrels of crude oil were
imported and refined into products by the Petrojam refinery, representing about one third of the
country's petroleum product requirements. In addition, about 11.1 million barrels of fuel
equivalent in petroleum products were imported, of which about 7.4 million barrels were for the
bauxite/alumina industry (para 2.06). In 1991, hydroelectric power stations provided about 109
GWh to the national grid, representing a small portion of JPSCo.'s net generation (0.5%). Small
quantities of coal are imported and used by the cement industry to produce industrial steam.
2.10    Non-commercizl sources of energy include mostly bagasse and fuelwood. Bagasse is an
important energy source for the sugar industry where it is used as a fuel to generate industrial
steam during the cropping season which lasts about 7 months. Fuelwood, including wood used
for charcoal and wood burned directly, represents a significant energy source for households,
particularly low-income households. In 1990, fuelwood comprised about 75% of total primary
energy for all households, while combined wood fuel and charcoal comprised about 50% of end-
use energy for households. Firewood is consumed mostly in rural areas where it is gathered free
of charge. The supply of charcoal, however, is becoming increasingly commercialized moving
from an informal supply channels to commercial charcoal producers and sellers.
D. Energy Pricing
Petroleum Product Prices
2.11    Domestic retail petroleum product prices, as measured by a weighted average price of
gasolene, diesel, fuel oil, LPG and jet fuel, fell by about 11% per year in real terms during the
period 1985-90, matching the trend in international prices during that period. Economically
efficient pricing of petroleum products suggest that domestic prices reflect border prices plus inland
transportation and distribution determined through a competitive market without barriers to entry or
exit. However, prices are still regulated at the ex-refinery level and are above equivalent border
prices. Currently, ex-refinery petroleum product prices are set by Petrojam based on a formula
adopted in 1988. The formula is based on reference prices at the U. S. Gulf Coast which are
adjusted to reflect local product specifications, ocean freight charges, terminal and rack fees and a
charge to equalize the ex-refinery prices at Kingston and Montego Bay. Although this pricing
formula establishes a linkage to international benchmark prices, it is still set administratively and
does not reflxt market conditons or possible efficiency savings. The recently completed Energy
Sector Strategy and Investment Planning study carried out by ESMAP concluded that this formula
recovers additional US$12-17 million in costs from consumers based on current volumes, about
one third of which is in foreign exchange. Moreover, imports of petroleum products are de facto
monopolized by Petrojam (para 2.16). These two factors severely restrict the scope for
competitive prices at the ex-refinery level vis a vis border prices which has negadve attendant
consequences for the competidveness of the economy. At the retail level, petroleum product prices
were deregulated in September, 1990, although marketers still face the ex-refinery prices set by
Petrojam weekly. Marketing companies and transport contractors are free to set their prices on a
commercial basis. As a result, since 1990, movement in retail prices have also generally reflected
border price movements, although price levels are still linked to the ex-refinery price posted by
Petrojam. The scope and modalities for complete liberalization of the petroleum sector at all levels,
including prices, is a central issue to be addressed in a study under the proposed Project (para
7.05).



*8-
Elect PricyPAes
2.12   Electricity pricing policy in the past has been ad hoc and tariffs have been adjusted only
sporadically with significant time periods between adjustments. For example, following two large
increases in the tariff in 1984 (para 2.07), no adjustment occurred until April 1990. As a
consequence, during the period 1985-91 average revenue per kilowatt hour in real terms decreased
by about 12% per year from J$.30/kWh to J$.14/kWh (in 1980 J$) which prevented lPSCo. from
recovering significant portions of its costs. The effects of this decline were particularly
pronounced during the end of this period when inflation began to increase rapidly and depreciation
of the Jamaican dollar accelerated. Consequently, GOJ approved a price increase in December
1991, which resulted in an increase in the average base tariff of about 15%, and adjustments in the
fuel and foreign exchange clauses to address the impacts of inflation and depreciation. Because of
the continued rapid increase in inflation and the depreiation in the J$ which has occurred over the
past year, an update of existing marginal cost studies would be carried out under the proposed
Project (para 5.04). Chapter V and Annex 5.1 contain a more detailed discussion of tariff levels
and rate structure. The power sector regulatory framework and privatization study, to be carried
out under the proposed Project, would address the rate setting mechanism and principles, as well
as the necessary institutional arrangements required for the regulation of the privatized power
sector. The scope and tming of this study are discussed in Chapter VII.
E. Regulation of the Energy Sector
h=nducdtn
2.13   The energy sector in the next few years is set for major structural changes with the
proposed transfer of ownership from public sector to private sector and the establishment of a new
opertional framework to regulate the sector's operatons. In the power sector, this would involve
the induction of private sector generating companies followed by the privatization of JPSCo. and
an increased role of private sector in transmission and distribution. In the petroleum sector, the
deregulation would introduce market based pricing structure and possibly new entrants in other
downsteam opeations, e.g. transportation, storage and even marketing outlets. The privadtzaion
of Petrojam would lead to improved operating efficiency and mobilize venture capital for the
rehabilitation and expansion of the refinery, if needed. The proposed Project would set the
framework for policy changes to remove entry barriers and improve market access and
competition. The final structure of the privatized energy sector as well as the institutional and legal
framework for regulation of the sectr would evolve accordfing to the dme ftame to be agreed based
on the recommendations of the studies (paras 7.02 and 7.05) being undertaken under the proposed
Project
Power Subsect
2.14 The basic legislation governing the power sector consists of the Electric Lighting Act of
1890 and the Electricity Development Act of 1974. The Electric Lighting Act empowers the
Minister to license any authority or company to supply electricity under the Aces provisions within
any area on the island, subject to the terms of the license and regulations made under the Act The
Electricity Development Act established the Electricity Authority as the agency responsible for
power sector development. In addition, the Electricity Authority is authorized to regulate the
licence-holding udlities. Under the Electric Lighting Act, GOJ granted to JPSCo., in 1978, a 39-
year "Alt Islan Electric License", which obliges JPSCo. to supply electricity to all parts of the
island as the sole supplier of electicity for public consumption.
2.15   Until 1975, JPSCo..was regulated by an independent Public Utility Commission which
was a statutory body. That Commission was superseded by the Electricity Authority in 1975
following enactment of the Electricity Development Act and the acquisition of the Company by



-9-
GOJ. Although the Electricity Authoity technically still has jurisdiction over JPSCo., in practice
the Company reports directly to GOJ, through MPUTE. JPSCo. provides monthly financial
reports to the MPUTE. MPUTE is closely involved in financial and investment planning for
JPSCo. To seek a rmte adjustment, JPSCo. files the request with the MPUTE which then analyzes
the request and submits it to the Cabinet for approval.
2.16   Under the Petroleum Act (para 2.03) importers of petroleum are required to pay Customs
duties ranging from 10%-30% depending on the product and additional stamp duty of 40%.
However, Petrojam has been granted ad hoc exemptions from duties on crude and petroleum
product imports and, as a result, Petrojam enjoys an effective monopoly on product imports.
However, under the present arrangements, other importers may seek duty exemption for deficit
products. Under the bauxite agreements, bauxite firms are exempt from import duties and are not
;equired to purchase fuel oil from Petrojam and may import direcdy from off-shore suppliers. The
bauxite companies generally put their fuel requirements, mainly fuel oil, up for competitive bidding
on a yearly basis. Generally, they purchase supplies from off-shore suppliers since they specify
lower quality fuel oil which can be importd at a lower cost than the higher quality fuel oil
produced by Petrojam. Petrojam has been operating, over the last five years, well beow its
nominal rated capacity.  he company's financial health, however, has not reflected this poor
operational performance due to its monopoly position in imports and the ex-refinery pricing system
it administers (para 2.11). As part of the reform program under the proposed Private Sector
Development Adjustment Loan, provisions would be introduced to enhance import competition
while tarifflevels on petroleum imports would be reduced to provide a level playing field for other
importers to compete with Petrojam. Prior to September 1990, MPUTE was responsible for
reviewing and approving changes in controlled product prices; however, since the decontrol of all
retail product prices except for domestic kerosene, MPUTE only monitors price changes.
Following deregulation of reail prices of most products in September 1990 increased competition
is evwent at the retail level. Moreover, a new distributing network of independent service stations
has recendy been formed which could effectively increase compedtion at the retail leveL
2.17   Under the proposed Project, GOJ is commissioning two studies to address the issues in
the petroleum subsector. The first, which is under execution, is to determine what options should
be considered to satisfy the demand for deficit products from the refinery and other specialized
products such as unleaded gasoline. The second study will address the complete deregulation of
the petroleum subsector, the ex-refinery pricing mechanisms, the liberalization of imports, trade
regime and tariffs in addition to the privadzation of Petrojam (para 7.05-7.06). Moreover, the
study will review existing legislation and other factors which may cause barriers to competition
and/or unfair practices in the whole chain of the petroleum subsector, i.e., refining, transportation,
storage, distribution and retailing. This study would develop deregulaton alternatives, import and
tariff options and would analyze, for each case, the impact on government revenues, potential
competitveness of a privatized refinery, consumer pnces, and the level of competition in
importing, distributng and marketing.
F. Constraints to Private Sector Participation
2.18   Under the provisions of JPSCo. 's license, it has the right to purchase electricity in bulk
from private sector generators for onward transmission and distribution and sale to its customers.
However, non-JPSCo. generation facilities have been used almost exclusively for self-
consumption, and JPSCo.'s purchases have been minimal. The firms which have established
generatng facilites, primarly in the bauxite and cement industries, have done so to meet
requirements specific to their industry and have litde incentive to supply the national grid. The
bauxite iodustry has suffered a slow down durng the last decade and thus has litde ability or desire



- 10-
for new investments. Moreover, some of the units in the bauxite industry operate on 60 cycles
which is not compatible with JPSCo.'s system, and therefore are not connected to the grid.
2.19   While legal provisions exist to allow private sector participation in the power sector at the
generation leveL several constraints inhibit the introduction of private investment in the sector. At
the macro level, the persistent high fiscal deficits and attendant high inflation along with continued
over regulation of business activity has, in the past, dampened the interest of investors in making
the level of long-term investments required in the power sector. The recently agreed
macroeconowr c adjustment program has at its core measures to improve the investment climate,
which, combined with sector-specific measures, should strengthen investor confidence in Jamaica
and increase the attractiveness of long-term investments. At the sector level, specific constraints
include: (a) lack of a sufficiently clear and adequate regulatory framework; (b) lack of long-term
financing for power sector investments by the private investors; (c) insufficient security provisions
to safeguard the interests of private investors, lenders, particularly those off-shore; and (d) limited
size and scope of local capital markets for mobilizing financing required in the sector for expansion
and rehabilitation, given the non-tradeable nature of electncity.
2.20   Extended grace periods are required to match the development and construction periods
of power generation projects, and extended repayment periods allow the cost of the projects to be
spread over a longer period and hence result in a more acceptable tariff profile by reducing high
tariff levels in the initial years, as shorter repayment periods result in higher debt service
obligations in the early years. Moreover, as the power plant operation involves substantial
sovereign risk which is beyond the control of the Project company, contractual provisions
providing adequate protection are essential.
2.21   In the petroleum subsector, private companies already operate at the distribution level and
competition is evident among the marketing companies, particularly following the liberalization of
prices at the retail level in September, 1990. However, the ability of private entities to operate in
other areas of the subsector, including the imporation of petroleum products, and the transport and
storage and distribution of products, is greatly diminished by the legal and other barriers to entry.
G. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.22   The Bank has made four loans for power sector development, all to JPSCo. which total
US$90.5 million. These lending operations have involved financing construction of generation,
transmission, and distribution facilities, and providing technical assistance for improving
operaions and maintenance practices and overall efficiency of the JPSCo.'s operations. The latter
was pardcularly important during the implementation period of the second loan (1516-JM of
US$20.0 million, 1978) when adverse macroeconomic condidons took its toil on the company. In
addition, institution-building and trahdng and strengthening of sector human resources have all
been a prominent focus of all Bank lending operations in the Jamaican power sector.
2.23    The Third Power Project (Ln. 2188-NM, US$30.5 million) and Fourth Power Project
(Ln. 2869-JM, US$18 million), in additdon to financing construction and providing technical
assistance and training, focused on rehabilitating plants and the upgrading of the power system.
The lessons learned from the Third Power Project have been outlined and discussed in the Project
Completion Report (Report No. 10252) completed recently. A discussion of these lessons and
their contribution to the design of the proposed Project is contained in Chapter IV (paras 4.25 to
4.27). The ongoing Fourth Pov-r Project, approved in 1987, aimed at improving operating
efficiency within the JPSCo. system by: (i) expanding and upgrading transmission lines,
substations and the distribudon network; (i) establishing a permanent training center and training
program; and (iii) providing engineering/consultant services for JPSCo. The prject was designed
to help lPSCo. meet its power needs through 1992. After initial delays, the project is being
implemented satisfactrily. The delays were pimarily due to: (i) the disrupdon and destuction to



. li -
the system wrought by Hurricane Gilbert which struck Jamaica in 1988; and (ii) JPSCo.'s
cumbersome intemal procurement processes. The latter constraint has been addressed by
strengthening the Project Execution Unit by assigning a full time Project Director, and increasing
the number of staff assigned to the Unit. The training and studies components of the Project have
been successfully implemented. JPSCo. also had difficulty in meeting the rate of return covenant
of the loan, although it is in compliance with all other covenants. JPSCo.'s past financial
pe.formance and proposed measures to improve the company's financial health are presented in
Chapter V.
2.24 In the petroleum subsector, the Bank has made one loan, the Petroleum Exploration Loan
(2017-JM of 1981 for US$7.5 million), which was aimed at promoting the exploration for and
development of Jamaica's hydrocarbon potential. Although no commercial discovery was
reported, the project pardally achieved its objectives by increasing knowledge of the prospects of
the Pedro Bank area offshore and of the northern and western areas onshore. The interpretations
of the survey data enhanced the understanding of the areas explored, and identified areas such as
New Bank on the South Coast Shelf where further exploration would be considered if oil prices
increase significandy. The negative results of the exploration activities, particularly drilling, and
the lack of sound alternative uses led in January 1986 to closure of the loan and cancellation of
about 50% of the approved funds.
{IfL POWER SECTOR
A. Electricity Supply System
CinQinSstm
3.01   JPSCo. has an installed capacity of about 544 MW with hydro-capacity totalling 18 MW,
forming 3% of installed capacity, and the balance of 526 MW, forming 97% of instatled capacity
consists of oil-fired units. The steam and the diesel units, which operate on fuel oil, generated
81% of total net electricity output in 1991 while combusdon turbines using diesel oil supplied
13%, and hydro plants supplied the remaining 6%. Steam plants are located at Hunts Bay and O!d
Harbour, the diesel plant is located at Rockfort, while combustion turbines are located at Hunts
Bay and Bogue in Montego Bay area. The five hydro-electric plants are located on the North Coast
on the Maggoty, Rio Bueno, Roaring, and Lower and Upper White rivers. Annex 3.1 gives
details of JPSCo.'s installed generating units.
3.02   Jamaica, in addition, has captive installed capacity of approximately 265 MW. Bauxite
companies own and operate about 168 MW, about 64% of the captive generating capacity. Sugar
factories own and opeate about 30 MW, or 11%, the cement plant 27 MW or about 10% and other
private facilities about 40 MW, or 15%. About one third of this capacity is in plants operating at
60 Hz, while the remainder operates at 50 Hz. About one ha; f the bauxite companies' capacity
is connected to JPSCo.'s grid, as is a small portion of the sugar factory capacity. Although
JPSCo. has purchased electricity from these sources regularly over the past ten years, the volume
of purchases has been insignificant. In 1991, it amounted to only about 7.9 GWh or 0.4% of
JPSCo. sales. The feasibility of conneting the cement plant facilities to JPSCo.'s grid is currently
under consideration. Total energy production by JPSCo. in 1991 was about 2,000 GWh, while
captive plants generated an additional 1,000 GWh. Annex 3.2 gives details of sector's
performance, which details JPSCo.'s market penetration, efficiency measures and quality of
senrice.



- 12-
lhn  lssio an     S      ystem
3.03   JPSCo. delivers electricity to the main load centers through a transmission network
comprising two levels of transmission voltages, 138 kV and 69 kV. There are about 273 circuit-
kilometers of 138 kV fines. In addition, there are about 716 circuit-kilometers of 69 kV lines. The
69 kV transmission system is interconnected to the 138 kV system through 8 substations; total
substations number 54. Electricity is sold at medium (24 kV, 13.8 kV, 12 kV and 4 kV) and low
(440/220/1 1OV) voltage through a distribution network which includes about 11,200 circuit-
kilometers of distribution lines. The distribution lines are primarily overhead bare conductor lines
with underground feeders supplying some industrial and commercial loads. JPSCo.'s
trmsmission and distribudon system covers the entire island.
3.04   About 63% of the total population of Jamaica live in dwellings which have electricity,
compared to 39% in 1976. Electricity consumption is mainly concentrated in the metropolitan
areas of Kingston and Montego Bay which respectively represent about 62% and 8% of the
country's total consumption. Average electricity consumption per capita in 1991 was about 850
kWh/year, based on *eneration. Jamaica's electricity indicators (per capita installed capacity and
electricity consumption and access to electricity) are in the middle range of other comparable
countries. In 1975, about 54% of Jamaica's population lived in rual areas. Of this total, only 11%
were connected to the grid. In order to accelerate the integration of the rural areas to the
distribution grid, the Government in 1975 created the Rural Electrification Programme Limited
(REPL), an endty separate from JPSCo., to administer the rural electrification program. The
program consists of extensions from established transmission lines, and the provision of loans to
assist homeowners in carrying out house installations. REPL receives financing under soft terms
for the program. Upon their compledon, the projects are transferred to JPSCo., at cost, as well as
the coresponding Liabilities This institutional arrangememn has worked well and the proportion of
the rural ppulation connected the he grid has increased to 20%.
Sygte Losses
3.05   Although JPSCo.'s operational efficiency has improved, system losses have remained
consistently high (above 19% of total generation) throughout the period 1986/87-1991/92. Based
on a Bank-financed study, undertaken m 1988, it is estimated that technical losses on transmission
lines, substations, distribution lines and technical transformers, account for about 11% of net
generation and 52% of total losses and that non-technical losses amount to about 48% of total
losses. Non technical losses have been attributed to metering problems, improper meter wiring,
incorrect field information and clerical errors, and unregistered consumption. Table 3.1
summarizes JPSCo.'s system losses.
Table 3.1: SU= Imm1
--Actual             --  Esimated
1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 198.9190 1220/1  19.91/92
NetGWhgenerated    1,916   1,710   1,651   1,934   2,005    2,100
GWh Sold            1,542   1,370   1,271   1,569   1,632    1,697
System Losses (as a    18.9    19.5    20.1    19.3    19.2    19.2
% of net genation)



- 13-
3.06   During the last two years, JPSCo. has taken various steps to reduce technical as well as
non technical losses. In order to reduce technical losses JPSCo. has: (i) started reconductoring of
primary distributon lines, about 11 km of trunk line has been reconductored; (ii) initiated a
capacitor installation propam, about 36 MVAR of capacitors funded by the Fourth Power Project
(Ln 2869-JM) have been installed and/or rehabilitated which led to day peak load factor improving
from an average of 0.81 to 0.90; and (iii) started a voltage upgmdiLig program, about 311 circuit
km out of total of 7,290 circuit mn have been converted to 24 kV. With respect to non-technical
losses, JPSCo. started a program to: (i) inspect all customers' meters for inaccuracies and illegal
by-passing; and (ii) implement an aggressive program to control electricity theft particularly with
support of security forces. JPSCo.'s future loss reduction program forms a part of the Corporate
Acton Plan (para 5.16).
3.07   As a result of a shortage of installed generating capacity, the current unreliability of base
load plants and. therefore, a heavy reliance on gas turbines for base load, power outages occur on
an almost daily basis. In order to imp wve reliability of service JPSCo. is implementing a major
rehabilitation program involving investments in generation, and tmnsmission and distribution, at a
total cost of US$117 million. This program is being financed through the Inter-American
Development Bank's Electricity System Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (US$82 million),
which was approved by IDB in early 1991, JPSCo. (US$31 million), and suppliers (US$4
ilion).
3.08   The rehabilitation program for generation involves investments in thermal stations at
Hunts Bay (steam and combustion turbine units), Old Harbour (steam units), and Rockfort (diesel
barge units). These units represent a major share of JPSCo.'s existing capacity, i.e., 378 MW, or
70% of total capacity. Investments would include replacement of damaged or temporary parts used
for emergency repairs, replacement of support infrastructure and peripheral equipment. It is
expected that these investments would result in the recovery of about 20 MW of capacity, improve
station heat rates, and increase their reliability and availability. The program also includes
investments to perform a major overhaul for five hydro plants totalling 21.5 MW. Most of these
plants are over 25 years old. These investments will restore the capacity of the hydro plants,
unprove production capability and extend the economic life of these stations.
3.09   The program for transmission rehabilitation involves the following components: (a)
construction of 10 km of 138 kV lines and 110 km of 69 kV lines along with the upgrding of 10
km of 69 kV lines; (b) construction of three substations and extension and modification of seven
existing substations; and (c) upgrading of transformation capacity of three substations. The
distribudon program would consist of loss reduction through the upgrading of approximately 800
km of existing lines.
3.10   JPSCo. has begun the rehabilitation of four steam units at Old Harbour and has restored
3 MW of capacity. Two of the combustion turbines at Hunt's Bay have been rehabilitated during
1991, while work on one steam unit at that site would begin in late 1992. The diesel units at
Rockfort, as well as the hydro units included in the program would be rehabilitated during 1993.
Construction of most of the transmission lines would begin in 1992 and 1993, following line
routing, design work and environmental assessments. The substation and distribution components
of the program are proceeding, with construction scheduled to begin in 1992-93.



.14-
B. Organization and Administration
ndlixLuol
3.11   JPSCo. is the only public power utility in Jamaica, with the exclusive responsibility for
the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity for public consumption. It was
established in May 1923. It subsequently acquired the West India Electric Company which had
been ,perating in Jamaica since 1898. For four decades, the company operated under varioas
licenses under the Electric Lighting Act of May 1890, as amended. In June 1966, aUl these licenses
were replaced by the All Island Electric License. Under its terms, the Ministry of Public Utilities,
Transport and Energy has the authority to require observance and performance by the company of
its obligations under the license and fix the rate charged by the company. JPSCo. was formerly
owned by private interests, mainly American, Canadian and British. From 1966 to 1971, the
company was operated by Stone and Webster corporation under an ownership and management
consultancy contract. In 1971, the Government acquired controlling interest in JPSCo. from
foreign private investors and currendy owns over 99% of JPSCo.'s ordinary shares, the rest of the
shares being held by private owners. GOJ's shareholding in JPSCo. is held by the Electricity
Authority.
3.12   JPSCo. has undergone reorganization in the last two years. The one being implemented
presently results from an organizational and operations audit that started in September 1990.
Based on the recommendaton of the audit, a new organization structure was approved by the
Board of Directors in March of this year. This reorganization aims at improving the operational
efficiency of JPSCo. by streamlining the compariy, establishing clearly defined managerial
accountability and responsibility levels, improving communication of information and improving
customer's service.  The Board of Directors, which has overall responsibility for company
affairs, has 14 members who are appointed by the Government. In the new organizadon structure,
the day to day management of the affairs of the company is the responsibility of the Managing
Director who is also the Chief Executive Officer and has eight departments reporting to him: (i)
Finance and Administration; (ii) Technical Operations; (iii) Project Execution Unit; (iv) Legal and
Insurance Services; (v) Corporate Services; (vi) Internal Audit; (vii) Customer Services; and (viii)
Public Relations. An organization chart of JPSCo. is shown in Annex 2.2.
3.13   However, the reorganization needs to be supplemented by additional measures to: (i)
develop documented policies and procedures; (ii) rationalize staff; (iii) strengthen labor relations;
and (iv) train and develop managers and supervisory personnel. A program to implement these
measure and the reorganization is included in the Corporate Action Plan which will be reviewed
during negotiations (para 5.16).
Ebmng
3.14   Prior to the reorganization, the planning function was under the Senior Director of
Production and Generation. In view of the critical role of the function, a new division, Corporate
Services reporting directly to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer has been created.
This new division consists of four departments: Systems Planning, Corporate Planning, Energy
Conservation, and a new unit, Organization and Methods. The aim of this new division is to
integme and consolidate all major planning activities across the company. In addition, the division
will have the specific responsibility for developing integrated long-term plans for JPSCo. This
would ensure that the planning process does not focus on the short tern only, but would focus on
the medium and long-term strategic business needs of the company. JPSCo. is preparing its first
corporate plan, which will be integmted into the Corporate Action Plan (para 5.16).



- 15 -
3.15   During the period 1988 to 1991, JPSCo.'s staff increased from 1,585 to 1,765.
However, during the last six months, JPSCo. has taken steps to reduce the overall staffing. As a
result, the number of employees has been reduced to 1,680. Simultaneously, JPSCo. has reduced
the management levels from 12 to 8. JPSCo. has also enhanced its emphasis on human resource
development. Under the new training programs the emphasis would oe on company's needs in the
areas of management, operation, nntenance, and engineering. This would supplement the
training programs financed under the Third Power Project (Loan 2188-JM) which gave priority to
local and offshore training for power plant operations and maintenance. JPSCo.'s Corporate
Action Plan (para 5.16) would idendfy the future action to streamline the organization and trauhiing
strategy for the next three years.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Setting
4.01   Jamaica currently faces power shortages and costly disruptions in supply which are
hampering production in critical sectors of the economy and hence present a serious constraint on
the country's growth prospects. These shortages have been particularly acute during the last two
years. While efforts are underway to rehabilitate JPSCo.'s installed generation capacity and its
transmission and distribution system, substantial expansion of capacity will be required to meet
future demane, which is forecast to increase by about 4% per year over the next 21 years. In the
petroleum sector, investments will be required to improve the efficiency, and possibly expand the
capacity of the refinery and augment storage and distribution facilities. The public sector,
however, faces several constraints in meeting the expansion needs of Jamaica's energy sector.
4.02   One of the critical components of the current macroeconomic adjustment progam is the
reduction of fiscal deficit, which will limit the government borrowings required to finance
investments. External financing is also constrained, given Jamaica's high external debt burden
(para 1.01). The country also has very limited ability to access long-term commercial financing, as
evidenced by the fact that during the period 1988-90 there have been no disbursements for debt
from commercial sources without GOJ guarantees. Disbursements of public and publicly
guaranteed debt from commercial sources, have ranged from US$30-130 million during these
years. Of this, the maximum amount provided by commercial banks was US$30 million in 1988.
Moreover, none of the conmmial debt has been for investments in the power sector, primarily on
account of the non-tradeable nature of the output. In view of these constraints, GOJ and the Bank
have agreed that specific arrangements to provide comfort to lenders and investors and a
framework for soliciting, appraising and supervising private sector projects, particularly power
projects, should be established.
4.03   The energy sector is dominated by public sector entities, which enjoy monopoly positions
in some form. In -he power sector, JPSCo. has a monopoly in the production and delivery of
public electricity supply and prices are regulated directy by GOJ. The frequency and amount of
tariff increases have not reflected the needs of the utility in recent years, which has inhibited
efficiency in the sector and resulted in a deterioration in the financial performance of JPSCo. In the
petroleum sector, PCJ has a de facto monopoly in the production of refined products and the
mportation of crude oil and refined products, excluding products imported by the bauxite industry
(para 2.16). In additon, the liberalization of the sector is constrained by government regulation
and insttutional barriers, and the existing framework is not conducive for major investments by the
private sector. In order to attract private investment in energy projects the barriers inhibiting
private capital inflows would need to be eliminated, and a clearly delineated framework to ensure



- 16 -
efficient allocation of resources and economic pricing of energy products would need to be
established.
B. Project Objectives
4.04 The proposed project would: (a) provide urgently required power generation capacity; (b)
establish the enabling environment for attracting private investments in the power sector including
the legal and regulatory framework; and (c) support GOrs deregulation and privatization program
in the energy sector.
C. Project Description
4.05   The proposed Project would comprise: (a) the installation of about 120 MW of power
generation capacity consistmng of a 60 MW low speed diesel plant in the private sector and a 60
MW combustion turbine plant, of which the first 30 MW would be in the public sector and the
second 30 MW would be mn the private sector, (b) the installation of assoriated transmission lines
and substations; (c) establishment and operadon of the Private Sector Energy Fund to provide
long-term financing for private power projects; and (d) consulting services to: (i) assist in the
operation of a Private Sector Energy Fund; (ii) prepare the 60 MW diesel power station and the
second 30 MW combustion turbine unit for solicitation of private sponsors; (iii) assist GOJ in the
olicitation, evaluation, appraisal, negotiation and supervision of the private projects; (iv) develop a
contractual famework for build-own-operate projecs and a regulatory framework for the operton
of the power sector, and (v) develop and implement a privadzadon strattgy for JPSCo. and
Petrojam. The project components are described in detail in Annex 4.1. The establishment and
operation of the Fund are discussed in Chapter VL
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
ltgject Cost
4.06   The esdmated cost of the proposed Project, including piice and physical contingencies
and customs duties is about US$156.1 million. Cost esdmates for the civil works are based on
March 1992 prices. The equipment prices are based on estimates obtained from manufacurers and
bid prices for similar plants in the Caribbean. The total financing required, inclusive of interest
during construction, IS US$165 million equivalent. Of the total financing required, US$124
million equivalent would be in foreign exchange and the remaining US$41 million would be local
cost. Physical contingencies are assumed at 5% for equipment and material, and 10% for erection
and civil works. These amount to 6% of the base cost of the project. Escalation of foreign costs is
assumed at 2.8% for FY93, 3.9% for FY94, and 3.9% for FY95, and 3.8% thereafter. Escalation
of local cost is assumed at 18.8% for FY93, and 13.3% for FY94 and 8% per annum thereafter.
Total J$ price escalation amounts to 44% of base cost plus physical contingencies. The estimated
taxes and duties amount to US$4.5 million. A summary of esdmated project cost is presented in
Table 4.1 below and details are given in Annex 4.2.



-17
Table 4.1:      os
(n Milin              (US$ UM
Ica    E=gin  Ioid   Led  Foreign  Iltd
3 x 20 Low Speed Diesel     410.8  1313.2  1724.0  18.3   58.6   77.0
2 x 30 Combustion Turbine   193.0   771.2   964.2   8.6   34.4   43.0
Interconnection and
Transmission Facilities     39.0   118.0   157.0   1.7    5.3    7.0
Technical Assistance              -  6U 5     W 60          22 X
Total Base Cost             642.9  2262.8  2905.7  28.7  101.0  129.7
Physical Contingencies       49.2   126.6   175.7   2.2    5.6    7.8
Price Condngencies          47L2 .89  _  fL 1358.6  10 _0 _6        8
Total Project Cost         1164.0  3276.0  4440.0  40.9  115.2  156.1
Interest During Construction    -   256.3   256.3  ___   __2 _0    9
Total Financing Required    1164.0  3532.3  4696.3  40.9  124.2  165.1
Eoiect Financing Plan
4.07   The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would finance 37.3% of the total financing
required net of taxes and duties. IDB proposes to provide a loan of US$56 million to cofinance the
proposed Project. For the public sector component, the Bank loan would finance cost of
consulting services and c'ntracts awarded through international competitive bidding. In the case of
private sector subprojects it would finance a proportion of the construction cost of the subprojects
awarded to the selected developers under procedures acceptable to the Bank. USAID has shown
interest in financing part of the technical assistance to support the privatization effort. About
US$34 million would be provided by the private sector, and JPSCo. would provide the remaining
amount of about US$15 million. Table 4.2 summarizes the financing plan for the proposed
Project.
Table 4.2: Eigancing Pan
(US$ million)
IBRD               -     60     60
IDB                -     56     56
Private Sector   26       8     34
JPSCo.            M            JL1
Totals                 A    10
The Bank loan would have two components. The first component of US$19.5 million would
support the initial capacity addidon of about 30 MW, in the public sector, to meet the urgent
generating capacity requirem-nts and consultancy services. The second component of $40.5
million would be for the Piivatt Sector Energy Fund tFund) to provide long term financing to the
privately owned subprojects. TIhe Bank loan would be to GOJ. The first component would be
onlent to JPSCo. who would, in addition to the interest. be charged a fee of 0.5% per annum. The



- 18-
repayment period of the loan would be 17 years including a grace period of 5 years. The interest
rate and foreign exchange risk will be borne by JPSCo. rxecution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOJ and JPSCo.. satisfac   to the ank. would be a condition of   ciess of the
p=gsed Loan. The second component of the proposed Loan will be onlent from the Fund to the
private sector subproject company according to the terms and conditions detailed in para 6.06 and
6.07. In    to ens  th=popd Prject is fully financed. GQJ would be reQuired to have
Made arragW=ts. satisfactory to the Bank. with co-financiers for the co-financing of the
prposed roect, as a condition     v effeness.
E. Engineering and Construction
4.08   JPSCo. has experience of operation and maintenance of combustion turbines and diesel
engines. However, because of the small size of the utility, it depends upon consultants to assist in
design, engineering as well as supervision of construction of these facilities. It is, therefore, being
assisted by consultants in design, engineering and construction of the 30 MW combustion turbine.
Feasibility study and preparation of the environmental impact assessment was initiated in February
1992 by consultants financed under the Japanese Grant Facility for the proposed Project after it
was agreed by the Bank to finance the first combustion turbine in the public sector to meet
JPSCo.'s urgent requirements of generation capacity. The feasibility study and the Environmental
Assessment (para 4.16) have bee n completed. The bidding documents for a contract for the supply
and installation of the first combustion turbine are currently being prepared by consultants. GOJ is
simultaneously undertaking the preparation of documentation to seek proposals for operation of the
combustion turbine by the private sector. JPSCo. would be assisted by consultants financed by
IDB in the design and construction supervision of the transmission facilities and substation
expansion included in the project.
4.09   The remaining generating capacity of 90 MW under the proposed project composed of
two subprojects would be installed in the private sector. This includes: (i) 60 MW low speed
diesel power station; and (ii) the second 30 MW combustion turbine The selection of the
developers for these subprojects is being undertaken through a competitive process based on
lowest price of electricity (pam '.19). However, the preparation of the request for proposal for the
second 30 MW combustion turbine would be started only after August 1992, so that the lessons
learnt from the first solicitation can be incoporated. Although the use of a competitive process for
selection of developers ate common in developed countries, there is limited experience with
similar ventures in developing countries. Therefore, GOJ is being assisted by consultants in the
preparation of the necessary documentation under guidance of Bank staff. Consultants would also
assist GOJ in evaluadon of proposals, firalization of the contractual arrangements and award of the
concession to develop the subproject. The implementation of the subproject would be the
responsibility of the project company to be established by the selected developer. The performance
of the privately owned project company would be supenised by the Fund, assisted by consultants
(para 6.05).
F. Project Preparation and Implementation
4.10   The Govemment began investigating the possible participation of private sector investors
in the expansion of the power sector in 1990. In order to support the implementation of this
program, the Govenment requested the Bank to assist in their effort in establishing a framework
for PS participation in the energy sector and for the solicitation of private investors to build, own
and operate power geneating facilities and increased private sector participation in the petroleum
sector. In order to coordinate the activities and provide policy guidelines required for the
introduction of the private sector in energy development, the Government formed in No-;mber,
1990, a Steering Committee on Private Sector Participation chaired by the Minister of Energy (para
2.01). The Committee includes representatives from, intralia, the Ministry of Public Utilities,
Transport and Energy, the Ministry of Finance, as well as JPSCo., PCJ, PIOJ, the Attoney



- 19-
General's Office, and BOJ and is intended to serve as a focal point for the formulation and
adoptior, of policies regarding the participation of private sector investors in energy as well as
overseeing the implementation of these policies. MPUTE is the Secretariat of the Steering
Commnittee and is responsible for all coordination.
4.11   One of the principal constraints affecting the private sector participation in the power
sector is the. ick of long-term non-recourse financing. In order to provide a vehicle for long-term
financing and a framework for private sector participation, GOJ has approved the creation of a
Private Sector Energy Fund, which would mobilize financing from multilateral and bilateral donorc
and onlend the proceeds to private sector companies incorporated in Jamaica for investments in the
energy sectr. After analyzing the various institutional options to manage the Fund, it was agreed
that the Fund would be managed by a unit widtin the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ).
4.12   Investments to be financed under the proposed Project were determined based on the least
cost expansion plan for the energy sector. In the power sector, these investments include two new
generation projects, a 60 MW slow speed diesel plant and a 60 MW combustion turbine plant.
GOJ decided to implement the diesel power station in the private sector through a transparent
process seeking competitive solicitation from developers interested in owning and operating the
project. On account of the inherent complexities of the process, primarily stemming from the
structure of financing, formulation of the necessary contractual arrangements, and other activities
related to project preparation, GOJ requested the Bank to assist in the process. This has included:
(a) the solicitation and prequalification, completed in July, 1991, of seven private developers to
undertake the project; (b) the preparation of an environmental screening of potential sites for the
diesel project completed in July, 1991, which found both the Rockfort and Hunts Bay sites
suitable for a power plant of the size and technology envisaged; (c) the preparation of an
environmental assessment of the project completed in April 1992; (d) the preparatior. of a
prefeasibility study for the project acceptable to the Bank, completed in March 1992; (e) the
preparation of a request for proposals (RFP) to select a developer to undertake the project, which
was issued in March, 1992; and (f) the preparation of standard agreements, such as a Power
Purchase, Implementaton, and Puel Supply Agreements, required for the security of lenders,
investors and the Government, which were distributed as part of the RFP. Initial work on the
preparation of the contatual arrangements and prequalification was financed by USAID. The
preparation of the RFP has been financed from the Japan Grant Facility for the proposed Project.
Proposals from prequalified developers would be submitted in July 1992, and a project sponsor
would be selected by September, 1992. Financial closure is expected to take place about December
1992, following which construction would begin. The power plant is scheduled to be
commissioned in March 1995. The land for the project would be purchased by JPSCo. and leased
to the private investor (para 4.14).
4.13   The 60 MW combustion turbine plant would be implemented in two stages. In order to
meet GOrs urgent capacity requirements with certainty while retaining the involvement of the
private sector, the first unit of about 30 MW would be implemented in the public sector and
operated by the private sector. The 120MW of generating capacity under the proposed Project was
originally to be implemented in the private sector. However, given the complexities of mobilizing
private financing on a limited recourse basis, and the urgent requirement for 30 MW cf capacity,
GOJ requested the Bank to finance 30 MW of tIE combustion turbine plant in the public sector. In
light of GOJ's policy and the Bank's preference for private sector ownership of all new generating
capacity, it was agreed that GOJ would explore private sector options, including IFC, who had
shown interest in structurng a privately-owned project, while preparatory work on the public
sector altemative would continue. This was with the understanding that, in case GOJ ultimately
decided to pusue the public sector option, a final decision would be conveyed to the Bank by end-
April, 1992 in order to accommodate the time required for procurement and to firm up the
proposed Project's scope. This was subsequently extended to May 10, 1992. Following
discussions with interested private investors, GOJ requested the Bank on May 12, 1992 to proceed



.20-
with the 30 MW combusdon turbine unit on the public sector. The feasibility study and the
environmental assessment for this componen. have been completed and are satisfactory to the
Bank The combustion turbine is scheduled to be commissioned by November 1993, in time to
meet the peak demand for the tourist sector. Receipt of resgpnsive proposals by JPSCo. for the
installaton of the first combustion turbine would ha aa condition of effectiveness. A detailed
Inplementation Schedule is shown in Annex 4.3.
4.14   The 60 MW low speed diese. plant is located adjacent to a barge mounted diesel plant
operated by JPSCo. A preliminary environmental screening of the site was completed in July
1991. The land is not inhabited and would not therefore involve involuntary resettlement. The
land would be owned by JPSCo who would lease it to the private operators. During negodations,
GOJ confirmed that JPSCo. has possession of the lana. The 2 x 30 MW combustion turbines
would be expansions of the existing capacity at the Hunts Bay site and do not involve acquisition
of new land.
G. Environmental Aspects
4.15   The proposed project includes the construction of two 69 kV transmission lines
connecting Rockfort to West King House (approximately 9.6 kms), Hunts Bay to Rockfort (about
6.5 kms) and Rockfort to Cave River (about 8.00 kms). An environmental assessment of the
proposed transmission lines and substation expansions has been completed by consultants financed
by IDB. Although these lines pass through urban areas, the routings for the two new lines linking
Rockfort to Hunts Bay and West King House are along existing easements and the Rockfort to
Cave River transmission lines only involves rxonstruction of the exisdng line. The construction
of these lines therefore wowdd not involve acquisition of new right of way or resettement.
4.16   GOJ's consultants have prepared Environmental Assessment (EA) Reports for the
installation of: (i) 2 x 30 MW combusdon turbines; (ii) 3 x 20 MW diesel power plant; and (iii)
transmission lines. A summary of thcse reports which has been distributed to the Executive
Directors is given in Annex 4.4. While these summaries are broadly acceptable to the Bank, the
EAs would be revised satisfactory to the Bank before their rinalization. As environmental
guidelines and regulatory institutions in Jamaica are still in a stage of evolution, no specific
environmental approval for installaton of these facilides ase required. GOJ. has cthat n
aMtional       mi_nta aRDEMW is           an3 of its     s. IThe 30 MW combustion
turbine at Hunts Bay which will be owned by IPSCo. is located at Hunts Bay adjacent to the site
of the existing generating facilities. Based on the draft EA for the combustion turbine plant, the
proposed Project site could be contaminated from previous activides of the existing Hunts Bay
generating facilities. The draft EA concludes that the incremental environmental impacts of the
proposed Hunts Bay facility are marginal, but that the s02 and noise levels associated with the
existng generation facilites already exceed the Bank's environmental criteia. An outline for the
"clean closure," which includes site assessment and removal of all hazardous materials from the
site of the proposed Hunts Bay facility, has been prepared by the consultants as a supplement to
the BA In addition, an environmental audit of the existing Hunts Bay facilities has been already
conducted by consultants financed by 1DB. A comprehensive mitigation plan, defning the
measures to comply with the Bank's requirements, will be ppared to reflect the recommendatons
of EA report, the envromental audit of the exising facilities and clean closwre requirements of the
proposed site. The proposed Loan includes a provision for consulting services to assist GOJ in
implementing the mitigation plan which wold iclude measures to lessen environmental impacts.
In addition, the proposed loan Also includes provisions for the installation of air quality monitoring
equipment at Hunts Bay. In order to rnsure that the mittm  su re initiated. GOJ. has
agreed to the ouine midon   l      sion of                tal mitigation plan for the
Hunts IBax sitwlho  timing. so  and exection stategy are a l    e Bank would be a
diton l ,-effY.@eQess of_the



-21i-
4.17   The 60 MW diesel plant at Rockfort and the second 30 MW combustion turbine at Hunts
Bay would be owned and operated by the private sector. The developer selected to implement the
subprojects would be required to meet the Word Bank's environmental guidelines and would be
required to submit, as part of the feasibility study (ianL 6.03) and as a condition of financing from
the Fund, an environmental assessment for each subproject. In order to ensure that the privately
owned subrjects c ly with the Bans environmental reqrements. GOJ has confirmed that
the loan agreement between the Fund and the poject company would include specific provisions
regarding compliance with environmental guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank. Moreover, an
environmental screening of the facilities to be privatized in the energy sector would be undertaken,
and provisions are included in the privatization studies under the proposed Project, to analyze and
recommend mechanisms to be included in the regulatory framewoi for the energy sector to ensure
compliance with envirnmental regulatons.
H. Procurement and Disbursement
prourement
4.18   Procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized in Table 4.3. The proposed
loan would finance equipment, materials, installadon and the cost of consultants. The 30 MW
combustion turbine to be owned by JPSCo. would be tendered as a supply and erect contract
according to Bank Guidelines for procurement using international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. The bidding documents would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The
transmission lines and associated substation expansions are proposed to be financed by IDB and
would be subject to procurement according to IDB's guidelines. Consultants financed from the
proposed loan for design, engineering, and supervision of private sector subprojects, and to assist
the management of the Fund, would be selected and employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for the use of consultants. In the case of private sector subprojects, the developers for 60 MW
diesel plant and the second 30 MW combustion turbine would be selected following modified ICB
procedures (paras 4.19 to 4.21) acceptable to the Bank. The selection of the developer and the
approval of the subloan (para 6.03) would be subject to prior Bank review.



-22-
Table 4.3: EPurement Arrang=nts 1/
(US$ million)
1. Combustion Turbine I        27.6                  --     27.6
(18.0)                       (18.0)
2. 60 MW Diesel Plant             --       --    93.12/   93.1
(32.5)   (32.5)
3. Combustion Turbine II         --        --    24.1 21   24.1
(8.0)    (8.0)
4. Transmission System            --      8.6        --      8.6
5. Consulting Services            --       --      2.7 /    2.7
-LZ      (1X
Total                     27.6       8.6    119.9    156.1
*(18.0)      --   (42.0)    (60.0)
C1 Contract value includes taxes and contingencies.
2/ CDmpetitive bidding, based on exception as discussed in pas 4.19421.
31 Selection of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
ICB     _inatonal Competitive Bidding.
NBF    Not Bank financed.
Nor:   Figures in parenthesis indicate Bank financing.
4.19    Since the Bank is expected to play a major catalytic role in mobilizing private sector
financing using limited recourse project financing for the 60 MW diesel plant and the second
combustion turbine plant, it has been decided to pursue the following approach as a test case for a
privately owned subproject and as an exception from the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The
details of the methodology used are given in Annex 4.5. The 60 MW diesel subproject is being
implemented on a limited recourse basis through a competitive process. This process involves
prequalification of developers and the selection of a prequalified developer to implement the
subproject. The request for prequalification was advertised internationally. Although the
prequalification of the developer was conducted through an internationally advertised process, as
an additional measure to increase competition, the list of prequalified developers was published in
the international press so that manufacturers ce diesel plant and equipment could contact them. The
prequalification criteria included the applicant's technical capability, project development
experience with specific reference to diesel plants and in particular privately owned plants, as well
as ability to mobilize financing. Seven developers were prequalified. The prequalified developers
are required to submit proposals to build, own and operate the diesel plant in response to the
bidding documents (request for proposals) approved by the Bank. These documents provide
information regarding the contatual anrangements (para 6.09), plant operating regime, financial
parameters to be included in the proposals and the evaluation methodology which is based on price
of electricity.
4.20    The price of electricity is a function of the operating efficiency and ;ost of the plant, as
well as financing terms and the operating regime. The Power Purchase and the Implementation



-23 -
Agreement which form a part of the bidding documents define the operadng regime. The
developers, in response to the bidding documents, are required to provide for each year of the
concession, a Capacity Purchase Price/kW and an Energy Purchase Price/kWh, based on prices for
equipment, goods and services as of 30 days prior to bid opening and fuel prices given in the
bidding documents (RFP). Based on the plant capacity and annual energy generated as specified in
the bidding docuients, the revenue and generation streams is computed for each year over the life
of the concession as defined in the Implementation Agreement. The revenue and generation stream
are then discounted using a discount rate specified in the bidding documents to arrive at the
"average discounted price" which forms the basis of selection. The investors are also required, in
their proposal, to furnish: (i) details of the cost of equipment; (ii) financing terms; (iii) construction
schedule; (iv) financing plan; (v) terms of financing, and (v) details of the calculation of the price of
electicity. The loan proceeds will be disbursed against equipment supply and construction costs.
The developer is therefore required to provide details of the construction cost, iLe, cost of supply,
civil works and installation, and the calculation for arriving at the Capacity Purchase Price and
Energy Purchase Price. The disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed Bank Loan would be
a proportion of the construction cost in the proposal. Moreover, as a condition of the subloan from
the Fund, the developer is also required to submit a construction contract satisfactory to the Fund.
4.21    While the proposed methodology meets the requirements of equity, economy and
efficiency, it does not strictly comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines, since ICB
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines should be on a cash basis only. Under the
proposed methodology, however, the ability to mobilize equity is considered during
prequalification. The selection of a developer based on the price of electricity offered indirectly
takes into account the cost of financing. As the principal objective of private sector projects is to
maximize private sector financing, it is imperative to consider the ability to mobilize equity and
financing in the selection process. It has therefore been decided that, in view of the above, an
exception to the guidelines is justified as a test case. It is proposed that the second combustion
turbine unit be procured using a similar methodology unless otherwise agreed by the Bank based
on the outcome of the above selection process for the diesel subproject.
4.22   The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan for the first 30 MW combustion turbine would
be disbursed against 100% of the foreign expenditure for equipment and materials (ex-works if
manufactured locally), and 100% of foreign expenditure for civil works, both being subject to
ICB. The Bank Loan would also finance 100% of the cost of consultants. For each of the two
private sector subprojects, proceeds of the Bank loan would finance 35% of the construction costs
which are for equipment, materials, civil works and installation. The RFP issued to the
prequalified developers requires the bidder to provide these costs as they form the basis of the
electricity price quoted. The disbursement of cofinanciers' funds would be in accordance with
their respective guidelines. In case the successful bidder is from a country eligible for financing
under the guidelines of the Bank and IDB, these contracts would be cofinanced. The percentage of
Bank financing may need to be modified for the contracts which are financed by the Bank and
cofinanciers following procurement guidelines compatible with those of the Bank
4.23   Disbursements would be fully documented, except for payments under US$0.5 million.
Such disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the documentation
for which would not be submitted to the Bank but retaincC. for inspection by the supervision
mission. The standard procedures for auditing SOE would apply. In order to facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account would be established in a commercial bank, in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The initial deposit in the Special Account would be
US$4 million. A schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 4.6. The disbursement
schedule covers a 5 year period. The estimated disbursement profile takes into consideration
identified subprojects and the expected composidon of the portfolio to be financed from the
proposed loan. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1997.



-24-
PrRect Mntng and Swervision
4.24   The Bank has recommended that the reporting should comprise, as regards the Fund, a
quarterly progress report on the Fund's operations including a statement on utilization of funds
from each cofinancier, annual financial statements duly audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank and a Project Completion report within six months after the completion of
the proposed Project. In addition, for each of the subprojects, the reporting package would include
a quarterly progress report and annual audited financial statements. A Project Completion Report
(PCR) would be required following the completion of each subproject. In order to faciltate
monitoring of the implementation of the proposed PrEject. GOJ agreed to furnishto the Bank and
thdohe cofinanciers of the Fund: (a) qugartry prores Mreorts in it format satiafacoi to the
Banlc and (b inniual finaca statements auditedtr &VUbkI teBak
no later than six months after the end ofeciancial yer.L In addition. (30J agreed to undertake
a mid-term review of the implementation of the proposed Proiect. jointly with the Bank. by
December 1. 1994
L Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations
4.25    The recently completed PCR for the Third Power Project (Report No. 10252 dated April
30, 1992) articulates many of these lessons, while other pertinent lessons can be drawn from the
ongoing Fourth Power Project. The PCR for the Third Power Project summarized the main
lessons learned from that project were as follows:
(a) Financial viability can be maintained if early action is taken to increase tariffs to
compensate for increasing costs caused by currency depreciation.
(b) Loss of qualified staff, through inadequate compensation, can dilute the
effectiveness of training programs.
(c)  Where there are insufficient local staff to carry out timely procurement and
construction steps, consultants should be engaged to avoid delayed project benefits.
(d) Appria forecasts of the pace of implementation and disbursement were too
optimistic, particularly when the weak situation of JPSCo. is taken into account.
(e) Remedial actions should have been taken early, at appraisal, to address the problem
of salaries adjustment in order to keep the personnel and to avoid negating the
benefits of the training program
4.26   Some of these lessons have already been addressed through the Fourth Power Project,
while measures to mitigate other persistent problems have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed Project. The issues related to staffing and salani.. have been addressed by JPSCo.
through adjustments in the staff grading system which was recommended by consultants financed
by the Bank, and approved by the labor unions. This acdon effecdvely increased salaries, which
enhanced the attractiveness of employment in the company by makdng salaries more competidve
with other public sector endties as well as some private sector companies. The situation is being
re-evaluated by the company, however, following the sharp increases in price levels and the recent
exchange rate depreciation. After two sharp increases in the tariff in 1984 (para 2.12), several
years passed again with no tariff adjustments which eventually led to d significant decline in the
financial performance of the company. In order to avoid this situation in the future, under the
proposed Project, annual reviews of the tariff and adjustments required to sustain the financial
health of the company would be instituted. In regard to the delays in procurement and other
construction related activities, provision is being made under the proposed Project for the use of



-25-
consultants to prepare feasibility studies and assist in procurement to avoid delays in project
implementation. Additionally, under the Fourth Power Project the establishment and subsequent
strengthening of the Project Executon Unit (para 2.23) has improved JPSCo.'s capacity for
project implementation.
4.27   In terms of the private sector component of the proposed Project, while there is no similar
project in Jamaica from which to draw lessons, several lessons can be drawn from the Bank's
experience with similar operations in other countries. In order to minimize the possibilides for
delay in the implementation of privately developed power projects to be financed under the
proposed loan, several steps have been taken. These are: (a) preparation of a well defined security
package within which developers wiU commit their resources to implement the project, which
should reduce the dme required to finalize all the agreements that comprise the secunty package
(para 6.09); (b) selection of developers through an open and competidve process under which
selection would be made on the lowest guaranteed bid price for the supply of electricity, this would
ensure the most competitive bid and also eliminate negotiations on price; and (c) prepaation of the
feasibility studies for the private projects as well as environmental assessments which wiU reduce
the time required for the selected developers to prepare the projects.
V. JPSCo. FINANCES
A. Introduction
5.01   JPSCo.'s financial affairs are govemed by the Electricity Development Act which allows
the company to chlrge a rate that would cover operating costs, including depreciation and debt
service, and to set aside funds for expansions, extensions and other like purposes. Under the
Third Power Project, the Government was required to allow tariffs to be set at levels enabling
JPSCo. to earn rates of return on its average revalued net fixed assets of 5% in 1983, 8% in 1984,
and 8.5% in 1985 and thereafter until 1987; Except for 1983, JPSCo. did not reach the
covenanted rates of return even after the tariff increase that was allowed in 1984. Under the Fourth
Power projec, JPSCo. did not comply with the covenanted rate of return on net revalued assets
except for 1987/88. However, JPSCo. has taken the initial steps to improve its operational
efficiency and financial performance by reorganizing its management structure (para 3.06) and
increasing the tariff (para 5.02). In order to ensure that this process continues in a structured
manner, JPSCo., based on the recommendation of an organization and operations audit, have
prepared a monitorable Corporte Action Plan for the period 1992-97 (para 5.16).
B. Electricity Tariffs
5.02   In order to overcome the deterioration in the financial performance of JPSCo. due to
increases in operaing costs and the devastating impact of Hurricane Gilbert, JPSCo.'s base tariff
was increased by 30% in April 1990. Simultaneously, JPSCo. also changed the tariff structure by
modifying adjustment provisions to recover increases in fuel prices and introducing a provision to
recover dereciaton of the Jamaican dollar. However, the exchange rate assumed did not
materialize and the dereiatn of the Jamaican dollar was substantially more than 11% envisaged
at the time of the revison of the tariff in April 1990. In order to overcome this deficiency, JPSCo.
increased its average base rate by 15% in December 1991. The actual impact of tariff increases on
consumers has been substantially more than the base rate increase, however, primarily because the
liberaliztion of the foreign exchanpe controls in September 1990, led to a major depreciation in the
Jamican dollar and thereby a major incrase in JPSCo.'s investments and operating costs. The
average revenue/kWh increased from J$.67 in FY90 to an estimated J$1.76 in FY92. Details of
electricity pricing are provided in Annex 5.1.



-26-
5.03   Recognizing the continuing complexity of the existing tariff structure stemning from the
current fuel and foreign exchange adjustment clauses, JPSCo. has initiated a study to refine the
existing tariff structure and improve the efficiency of its billing system. JMB & Associates,
consultants, are assisting IPSCo. in developing a tarff structure which will enable: (i) the recovery
of costs through the base tariff which will be based on the current (1992) exchange rate and fuel
cost; (ii) modified fuel cost and foreign exchange adjustment provisions which accurately reflect
the impact of changes in fuel price and exchange rate; and (iii) the greater frequency of price
revisions. The results of the study are expected in July 1992. JPSCo. ar
Bank by Juy 31.1992 the consultants'  o  h         tariff strctr for review.
5.04   A detailed marginal cost study was completed by JPSCo. in 1989 and updated in 1991.
However, JPSCo.'s future capital investment program and operations are currently undergoing
major structural changes reflecting the impact of liblizadon of the foreign exchange as well the
changed role of the utility in the sector, particularly in generation. In order to ensure that these
changes are considered during the next tariff review. JPSCo.. agreed to update by December 1.
1992the  sng manal cost stuies using oli_ts. aceta  to the Ba
C. Past Financial Performance
5.05   Income statements showing JPSCo.'s financial results for the period FY87 (15-month
period2) through FY91 and the estimated results for FY92 are presented in Annex 5.2, and
summarizedin Table 5.1:
Table 5.1: Financial Resl  FY87 -F
(J$ Million)
Actual----           -- Estimated
.S8c<;a  1987/88 1988/89 1989s0  1919091  1221M
Operating Revenues     972      908     846    1045    1620       2989
Opating Expenses       839       22     LU      I3      1485     2
Opating Income          133     129       15      13      135      431
Interest                (72)    (50)    (39)    (68)    (87)    (225)
Income Tax              (19      X      L1               (19)
Net Income             A2 a2                              22  22
RateofReturn(%)         1       hLAz 0                    L        12
GWh Sold              L=      LI21   1.247    IE,6       13      IS
Average Revenue per
kWh Sold (J$)    0                6 0   Q9
The improving trend in net income in 1987/88 was sharply reversed in 1988/89 and 1989/90 when
net losses of J$42 million (4.8% of operating revenue) and J$69 million (6.6% of operating
2 JPSCo. chaged it accou_ing pmod from calondar yea to &c yea in diat yea.



-27-
revenue) respectively, were incurred thereby reducing the rate of return in those years to below
1%. The main reasons for this decline were:
(a)   A 7.3% reduction in units sold in 1988/89 mainly as a direct result of the
damage caused to JPSCo.'s networks by Hurricane Gilbert in September 1988.
(b)   In 1989/90 sales showed a growth of 23% over 1988/89. However, as higher
operating costs, mainly arising from an increase in tie average fuel price of
US$3.00/bbl, were not fuily reflected in the tariff, operating income was
virtually unchanged from the previous year.
(c)   Increased interest costs of J$29 million in 1989/90 contributed to a net loss for
the year of J$69 million.
5.06   Financial performance of JPSCo. improved in 1990/91. The company achieved a rate of
return of 4.3% in that year, considerably above the 0.7% in 1988/89 and 0.5% in 1989/90. The
main reason for this improved performance was the increase in the average revenue per kWh of
49% with the introduction of major tariff increases from April 1, 1990. The average price per kWh
increased from J$.66 (US$.10) to J$.99 (US$.12). This overall increase was the result of a net
increase comprising a J$0.41 increase in the base tariff plus the foreign exchange adjustment and a
J$0.08 decline in the fuel adjustment provision. The decline in the fuel adjustment provision
resulted from a decline in the import price of oil by US$2.7/bbl, or 13%. However, this was more
than offset by a 25% depreciation in the exchange rate. The above effects radically disturbed the
trend in average prices over the previous four years when the average rate per kWh was stable at
approximately J$.66.
5.07   Although JPSCo. is not expected to achieve the covenanted rate of return of 8%, its
financial performance in 1991/92 improved substantially and it is estimated to achieve a rate of
return of 7.2%. Of the 84% growth in revenues, only 4% can be accounted for by growth in
electricity sales. The balance of the increase in revenue is attributable to an increase in the average
sales price. Base tariffs were increased in December 1991 by an overall weighted average of about
15% to stabiLize a deteriorating financial position. ITe base tariff plus the foreign exchange clause
increased by 96% whereas the fuel recovery clause increased by 33%. During the year, the
exchange rate depreciated from J$8.5/US$ to J$24/US$.
EFndia
5.08   JPSCo.'s sources and applications of funds for the period FY87 - FY92 are presented in
Annex 5.3 and summaized below in Table 5.2.



-28- 
Table 52:
(J$-Mififion) 
--- Actua                            -  Estimated
,1986/87 1Q87188 1288/82 1989990 1990/91 1991/l92
SQa
Internallygeneratedfunds  324      312     214      237     422    1187
External borrowings       116      .16      S46      37      63      flZ
Total Sources          jQ       h       2        224     485    1212
ati~aons
Net Debt ServicelI        174      121     120      127     175      720
WoridngCaita Incase
(Decrease)            140      122    (53)      19       33     497
Capital Expenditure       12       14      1        1       22 
Total Applications     440      3       20       274     4L      1212
Closing Cash Balance         96      187      98      105      60      173
% of Capital Program
Financed by Intemal Funds   8%      48%     73%      71%     77%      -4%
1/ After adjustment for income eaned on short-term deposits.
With the exception of 1986/87, when a high level of external borowings financed the capital
expenditure program, the first five years of the peniod under review showed a very healthy level of
internal funding of capital expenditure. For the years 1988-1990, this high level of internal
funding can be reconciled with the poor rate of return performance over the same period by
reference to the availabilit of woring capital as a source of funds - especally a run-down of cash
balances. This pattern was altered in 1991/92 when increased capital expenditures (J$702 million
in 1991/92 vs. J$277 million in 1990/91) were financed through external borrowings. At the same
time, the high level of intemal cash generadon resulting from the tariff increases in 1991/92
(J$1,187 million) was applied both to debt service and in funding the iLcreased worling capital
requirements, of which accounts receivables accounted for J$435 milion.
Fmancial Posidon
5.09   JPSCo.'s statements of financial position for the period FY87-FY92 are presented in
Annex 5.4 and summized below in Table 5.3:



-29-
Table 5.3: Su=Pinancial PositionE EY.2
(I$ Million)
----- -- Actual --Esimated
1986/87 1987/8&  1981/89 1982    19 1921 1221/92
NetixedAsset           2026    2174    2262    2834    3611    8851
Plus: Current Assets    328     416     483      571     601    1260
Less: Current Liabilites    288  255    277      290     400     435
Plus: Woking Capital     40     161    _2X       281    _2
TotalNetAssets         2066    2335    2468    3115    3812    9676
Fmanced by:
Equity                 1271    1453    1666    2214    2661    6572
Long-term Debt          795 882   90    1151   JuM
Total                  2066    2335    2468    3115    3812    9676
Debt/Equity Rado       63%     61%     48%      41%     43%      54%
Current Ratio           1.1     1.6      1.7     2.0     1.5      2.9
5.10   Fixed assets are revalued annually in accordance with the formula agreed with the Bank
under the Fourth Power Project. However, because of the severity in the depreciation of the J$
against the US$ during 1990/91 and 1991/92, growth in the net fixed asset base was largely
influenced by currency devaluation factors. Growth in the net fixed asset base (including work in
progress) of J$572 million or '}5% occurred in 1989/90 continuing at a slighdy higher level in
1990/91 (J$777 million or 27%) followed by a major increase during 1991/92 with the addition to
the total net fixed asset base of J$5240 or an increase of 145%. Worlking capital representing the
excess of current assets ovc- current liabilities also grew during the period 1986/87 - 1990/91 from
J$40 million to J$201 million, with the current ratio flucting between 1.5 and 2.0.
5.11   During this period JPSCo. was able to fund its operations substantially from internal
sources thereby limitng its need to resort to long-term borrowings. Its debt to equity ratio
improved from 63% in 1986/87 to 43% in 1990/91. However, the year 1991/92 represented a
weakening in its balance sheet position due to the company's inability to contribute intemal funds
for capital investment because of a higher level of debt service costs and the large growth in
accounts receivable. The book value of external borrowings consequently grew with major
unreWalized currency losses experienced in foreign loans with the 166% depreciation of the J$
against the US$ over the year. The debt/equity ratio deteriorated from 43% to 54%. While the
current ratio was strong (2.9 times), the large incrase in accounts receivable (J$435 million),
r!elaing to increases in prces, shifted attention to woring capital management and JPSCo.'s short-
term financing requirements.
5.12   Overall, JPSCo.'s financial position has been heavily influenced by the effects of the
exchange rate movements of the Jamaican dolar, Tbis has incUased in absolute terms all the major
variables in its financial stnments With the current stabiliaon in the J$ and improvements in its
commercial operations arising from both its investment program and the implementation of its
Corporate ActionPlan 1993/97, JPSCo. is expoctd to improve its financial position in line with
the projections outline for the next five years. Such an improvement will ensure that JPSCo. can
relieve pressure on tariffs while, at the same time, conformng to all current or future covenants
with the Bank~



-30-
5.13   JPSCo.'s billing system is old and difficult to understand and needs major improvement.
Presently, it operates on the following basis: (i) accounts are billed based on meter readings
obtained every 60 days for rate categones classified as residential (Rate 10) and General Services
(Rate 20); (ii) interim billing based on estimation obtained from average of the last three actual
readings. This is applicable to accounts which register consumption in excess of 250 kWh
monthly (Rate 10 and 20). The meter reading for the scheduled reading date in the following
month is then used to bill the account and the interim charges are deducted; (iii) some accounts are
billed on meter readings obtained every 30 days for Rate 20 (type 2 accounts), industrial/
commercial (Rate 40), large industrial (Rate 50) and street light (Rate 60). The billing system is
computerized except for the categories Rate 40, Rate 50 and Rate 60. The customer account
receivable system allows a period of 21 days after the bill production date for payment.
Disconnection lists for delinquent accounts are produced 17 days after due dates recorded on the
bills. JPSCo. has requested the Bank to assist in modifying this system using funds from the
Fourth Power Project, and the Bank has agreed to finance a study on a new billing system. Based
on the current timetable for this study, it is expected that a new billing system will be implemented
during the current planning period.
5.14   The high level of tariff increases over the past twelve months (driven by the depreciating
J$/US$ exchange rate) have resulted in a significant increase in the absolute level of accounts
receivable. Table 5.4 illusaes the situation:
Tablt 5A.4: Ac  s ae
April  January  Mach   March   March
i99 Lg             1             1984
1. Outstanding Balance   844.9   561.7   292.6   169.3   146.6
(J$ millions)
2. OutstandingDays       63      59       61      56       66
collection (current 30-
day average).
Based on the cunrnt billing data, however, the collection performance of JPSCo. may be seen as
conforming with the historical norm as shown in Table 5.4. Nevertheless, working capital
management should be a primary focus of management attention as any deterioration in the
accounts receivable area will place grat pressure on short term liquidity. It is, therefore, proposed
to repeat the covenant limiting JPSCo.'s short-term brrowings to prudent levels as defined under
the Fourth Power Project.
5.15   The most recent data classifying accounts receivable by customer category is from
January 1992 and shows that, of the J$561.7 million outstanding, 10% is due from the
Govemment of Jamaica, 15% from the National Water Commission and the balance, 75%, from
private customers. Also, encouragingly, of the total outstanding amount, only 15% was due to
arrears over 60 days. Of this amount (J$86.3 million), 64% was due from the National Water
Commission, 19% from th Government of Jamaica and only 17% from the private sector. In
from the National Water                    1992 to a loan to be  paid over 30 months
effective  mSember 1992 w                    rnis a=table to the Bank. In addition, in



.21 .
order tc avoid increases in outstanding receivables. 001 agreed to cause National Water
CoMMission to obtlain th mingarnte of a commercial bank. acceD table to the Bank, guaranteeingC
NUWC's el,ectricty "Gymenits to lPSCo ianmoteqvlntonot less than 90%o of last 3
months billingr. N4WC shall review with JPSCo. the aidequacy of tis amnount on an annual bAsis.
and adjust it if required to an amount necessary to continue to guarantee of NWC's Rayments for
CogoR=t Action Plan
5.16   During FY90 and FY91 after Hurricane Gilbert, JPSCo. was in compliance with all
covenants except with the covenanted rate of return of 8% on revalued assets for which JPSCo.
requested a waiver from the Bank. The Bank granted this waiver on the condition that it prepares a
five year Ciporate Action Plan acceptable to the Bank. The objectives of this Action Plan are: (i)
to identify atnd develop a program to implement measures for the short and medium terms which
are necessjary to improve JPSCo.'s financial performance; (ii) to provide a tool for management to
periodicall evaluate and. monitor progress achieved in implementing these measures against a set
of quantitativc uu ualitative performance standards; and (iOi) to sustain profitability. JPSCo. has
submitted a draft of this Action Plan to the Bank. GOJ and JPSCo. agreed with the Bank on the
final scoe and content of the Cornorate Action Plan (FY93-978. In addition. GJ and JPSCo.
oered to review annual with the-Bank the erfoMance of JPSCO. arainst The aRameters in the
sn and to takecrretuya measures, acceptable to the Bank, to remedy any shortcomingsg in
ce.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
D. Investment Program
Cia" Exienditure
5.17   JPSCo.'s capital expenditure program for FY93 - FY97 Lssumes: (i) all future generation
investments, except hydroelectric power plants, would be undertaken by the private sector, and (ii)
the expansion and improvement of the transmission and distribution systems as well as
rehabilitation of existing plants and implementation of ongoing projects will be carried out by
JPSCo. The program which is based on the projected exchange rates (Annex 5.2) is within the
overall public investment prgram agreed as of March 1992 between GOJ and IRF for 1992/93 to
1994/95, as of March 1992.
5.18   The investment program for the five years is estimated at J$7,090 million or US$236.3
million in constant terms and J$7,701 million (US$257.1 million) in nominal terms. Of this the
foreign component is US$150 million or about 63%. The investment program, which includes
apportioned costs such as administation overheads and interest during construction, is detailed in
Annex 5.5 and summarnd in Table 5.5 and has been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable.



-32-
Table 5.5: nyestm   ntgProg   FY93-Fy97
Toul Cost Total Cost         Foreign
CaeSr          TISSm      Em        IL     Bcae
Production           45.4      1361       19       74
Generon              31.2       934       13       94
Transmission         30.8       925       13       63
Substaion            31.6       947       13       73
Distribution         33.9      1017       15       45
Property             26.3       789       11       24
Energy Conservation   2.7        81        1       74
Other                 34LI 16             -a       fl
Total: (Constant)   236.3      7090      100       63
(Nominal)     257.1      7701
5.19   Production, i.e. rehabilitation, improvement and replacement of major parts, represents
the largest share of the investment program with 19% of total investment followed by distribution
and general projects with 15% each. Generation investments, which include the already signed
contract for two gas turbines at Bogur amounting to US$31.2 million, or 13% of total investment.
Elaancing Plan
5.20   The financing plan for the capital expenditure program is presented in Table 5.6.
Table 5.6: Flnancing Plan FY93 - EY97
J$m    IJS$m 
EundLRS
Capital Investments              7701    257.1      59
Ange in Wogldng Calpit      13125    432.6    100
Total Funds Required132               42.       10
Son     n of Eunds
Goss Fund Generation            14270    470.2    109
Less: IncomeTax and Dividends    (2251)   (72.6)   -17
Net Debt SeviceV/          (II6f   (42.1)   -M
Net lntenal Funding        10903    355.5     82
Plus: Borrowings                 2222              - 
TotalSource.of Funds        13125    432.8    100
1/ Afthr adjusbue for income owned on sborttam deposit.
Some 30% of the total proposed capital expenditure program will be financed by external
boarowings (US$77 million) under exisdng or proposed arrangements with development agencies.
This amount compises 55% of total foreign exchange requirements. Of this amount, 37% of total
foreign exchange requirements is provided by existing arangements and a further 18% of total
foreign exchange qiements is to be met under proposed agrets.



-33 -
5.21   Of the 70% of the total capital programme to be financed by JPSCo. (US$181.6 million
equivalent), 34% (US$61.4 million) is expected to be met by direct conversion of surplus J$
funds. The balance, local J$ expenditure (35% of total) and interest during construction and
apportioned overheads (12% of total) will also be financed by internally generated funds.
E. Future Finances
5.22   A summary of JPSCo.'s forecast operating results for the five years is presented in Table
5.7 and cash flow projections are shown in Annex 5.6.
Table 5.7: Bmjected Financial Results FY93 - FY97
($ Million)
1992/93  199394  1994195  1 6   1996/97
Opering Revenues       5589     6848    7790      8982    10329
Operating Expenses     414       95      2Q      2461     8779
Opeaing Income         1075     1353     1470     1521     1550
Interest                312      144     (136)    (463)    (799)
Income Tax              189       42 A452          60       71
Net Income              574      930     1149     1377     1631
A summary of the key indica  is presented in Table 5.8:
Table 5.8: L IGatamEXY3EFY9
1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97
RateofReturn(%)                  8.9    8.1    8.1    8.1    8.0
GWh Sold                       1,646  1,694  1,747   1,812  1,886
Ave. RevenuekWh sold (J$)       3.40   4.04   4.46   4.96   5.48
Ave. Exchange Rate (J$IIJS$)   26.5   29.6   30.3   31.6   33.1
Fuel Price (US$/bbl.)           17.2   18.7   20.0   22.0   24.0
The above financial projections are based on the set of assumptions contained in Annex 5.8. The
ovenriding aspect of these projections is the annualized growth of 30% per annum in revenues in
nominal terms to enable JPSCo. to meet its funding requirements and to earn an annual 8% return
on assets. This level of revenue growth (driven by an average annualized nominal price increase of
26%) is necessary based on an annual average demand growth of 4%; (b) annual average J$/US$
exchange rate depreciation of 17%; and (c) annual average US$/bbl oil price increase of 9% per
annum. Operating margin over the period averages 18%, and in absolute terms, will finance the
increasing nominal working capital requrements.
5.23   Table 5.9 sets out the projected funding plan for JPSCo. over the period FY93-FY97:



-34-
Table 5.9: IPSo. Projected Funding Plan FY93-FY97
(J$ Million)
1992t93  1223194  1994/95  1995196  1996I97
Sources
Internally geneated
funds                  2005     2449     2488     2510     2566
Extnal borrowing        _68       9       52A 4
Total Sources          2685     3434     3040     2514     2566
AwUQiaUQn
Net debt service1'       769      556      268      (65)    (412)
Working capital incrse   624      405      1196     1507     1691
Capital expendinne      122      29Z_      1575    1D22    1287
Total Applications     2685     3435     3039     2514     2566
Closing Cash Balance      96      514     2049      3486     5029
% of Capital Program
financed by Internal
funds                  47%      60%      65%     100%      100%
VAftet aclusn  for uome earnd on short-in depos.
The above financing plan shows that the high level3 of capital expenditure to be undertaken by
JPSCo. over the next five years will be funded increasingly from intemal resources after meedng
debt service obligations and working capital requirements. New borrowings, as shown in the
above table, are linked direcdy with foreign exchange requirements under agreed programs. The
level of capital expenditurc funded intemally will range from 47% in 1992/93 to 100% in 1995/96
and thereafter. The company will also generate sufficient cash resources to repay J$2.0 billion
(UIS$69 million) outstanding loan principal over the period.
5.24   Detailed projected balance sheets, for the years FY93-FY97, are contained in Annex 5.4
and summaized in Table 5.10.
3 Excludes g8wation which is jopmd go be finacd by de jwv  eco.



-35 -
Table 5.10: Sum=m    Financial Psition FY93-FY97
(J$ million)
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
Net Fixed Assets     16243    19396    19991    20346    20896
Plus: Curent Assets   2229     2743     4179      5902     7780
Less: Current Liabilities    783  893    1132     1348     1535
Plus: Woring Capital    14M    1850     3047      44       6245
Total NetAssets     17689    21246    23038    24900    27141
Fnancedx
Equity               13369    15850    17366    19379    21746
Long-term debt        4320     5397     5672      5521     5395
Total                17689    21247    23038    24900    27141
Debt/Equity Ratio      32%      34%      33%      28%      25%
CurrentRatio            2.8      3.1      3.7      4.4      5.1
The most significant features of the projected balance sheets are the reduction in debt/equity ,
and the growth in liquidity over the projection period. The reduction is driven both by enhanced
profitability and additions to capital reserves arising from fixed asset revaluadons. Liquid cash
reserves are projected to increase by J$4.8 billion (US$153 million) reflecting both lower debt
srice charges and a reduced level of capital expenditure in the later part of the projection period.
However, over the next twelve to eighteen months JPSCo. needs to manage its short term liquidity
position very carefully. The sharp depreciation of the J$/UIS$ exchange rate over the past year and
the correspondingly high price increases have left JPSCo. with a very high nominal level of
accounts receivable which must be carefully managed to avoid short-term liquidity difficulties. The
above projections are based on a tariff adequate to generate net income sufficient to meet the
existing 8% rate of retur covenant. Given the substantial increase in the base tariff in December,
1991 (par 5.02), no base tariff adjustment is required in FY93 to achieve the 8% rate of return.
However, achievement of the 8% return in subsequent years would imply average tariff increases
in nominal terms of 19% for FY94, 10% for FY95, 11% for FY96, and 10% for FY97. JPSCo.
existing financial covenants would be repeted under fth prpsed Project. which provdde fo
JPSCO. acievingim an% rate of -eur onrvlued net fixed assets for each fiscal year as well as
d sv                          A fuil set of key financial indicators is in Annex 5.7.
F. Other Financial Aspects
tin s:=Xtn
5.25   The records of the company are maintained in accordance with the regulations prescribed
for Public Utilities by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission of the United States, in so far as
these regulations allow compliance with the companies Act, the License and directives from the
Minister. In accordance with the License, utility plant and replacements of retirement units of
property are capitaized and include direct labour, materials etc. Depreciation of utility plant is
computed on a staight line basis. Revenue consists of billings rendered to customers monthly or
bi-monthly with an accrual for revenue earned and billed subsequent to the end of the accounting



-36-
period. Assets and liabilities denominated in forign exchange are translated at the rates of
exchange prevailing on the last day of the fiscal year. Any losses on account of depreciation of
local currency not forming part of the revaluation increment are expensed.
Fanil  rato
5.26 The Senior Director of Financ, and Administration has the overall responsibility for
finance and accounts, purchasing, human resources, industrial relations, and support services.
The finance and account acdvities are divided into three Directorships. The Director of Financial
Control is responsible for Budget and Cost Control, Treasury and Financial accounting. These
functions are performed by three departments. The Department of Budgets and Cost Control is
primarily responsible for coordinating the preparation of the corporate budget and the preparation
of corporate reports. A computerized Revenue/Expense budgeting system has been in place for a
number of years. The budget information is fed into a budgetary control system which produces
monthly comparisons of actual versus budget revenues and expenses. The Treasury Department is
in charge of the management of the funds of the company. The Financial Accounting Department
has the responsibility foz the recording and reporting of the financial transactions and the
preparation of accounting reports and of financial statements.
hnLnal Audit
5.27    As a result of the recent operations audit and under the instructions of the Board of
Directors, the internal Audit department has increased its activities in order to monitor the
company's operations more effectively. The department has increased its staff members from 11
to 20 members. District and Parish audits' frequency was increased from twice a year to six times
a ycsr. This has resulted in more samples being audited and the increased vigilance has led to
improvement in r-cord keeping and accountability in the districts. Internal audit also introduced
audits of constrution of projects which entails visit to site locations. Stores are audited daily by a
resident staff member. Internal audit carries out verification proceduw -. to vouch expenditures in
more depardments than in the past. Furthermore audits of financial records are carried out on a
monthly basis. Internal audit has also started to conduct meter audits, verification of current
tansformer metering, audits of transmission line maintenance and sub-station audits.
EXeld A,,^
5.28    JPSCo.'s accounts are audited by a reputable international external audit firm which has
local offices in Jamaica. This firm has audited the company's accounts for the past four years. It
is the opinion of the external auditors that proper accountag records have been maintained by the
JPSCo. and that the financial statements give a fair view of the state of the company's affairs.
Jsn=: mA
5.29   JPSCo. maintains ample insurance coverage of its assets. It has a general policy called
catastrophe aU risks that cover all generaing plants and machinery, transformers buildings, stocks,
spare parts and other materials for a declared value of more than US$1.3 billion. The generation
plant is insured against fire, lightning, hurricane, earthquake, explosion and flood. Other policies
cover the most common risks that can affect the company's assets. JPSCo. also has an insurance
policy for employers liability including insurance against loss of money, securities and a group
policy for personal accidents. The insurance policies contracted by the JPSCo. provide
satisfactory protecdon against the major risks that can affect a public utility. The coverage is on a
yearly basis from August 1 to July 31.



-37 -
VL PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY FUND
A. Institutional and Administrative Arrangements
6.01    The National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ) would act as administrator ana
executing agency of the Fund on behalf of GOJ. A Private Power Unit (PPU), which would be
staffed by a small group of professionals, would be established within NIBJ to administer the
Fund. NIBJ would administer the Fund under an Administration Agreement, which would be
entered into between GOJ and NIBJ. This agreement would specify the duties and authority of
NIBJ including the guidelines and policies for the Fund's operations to be followed by NIBJ.
Agreement was rached with GOJ on the scooe and substance of the Administration AgEreement.
6.02   The selection of private sector subprojects, and approval and finalization of the
contractual arrangements involves extensive intenninisterial coordination. In order to ensure that
the approval of subprojects is handled expeditiously, GOJ has entrusted this responsibility to the
Ministers' Steering Committee (para 4.10). The Steering Committee functions through small
working groups responsible for specific areas. This arrangement has worked efficiently and
effectively over the previous year when the security package and RFP for the first subproject were
being finalized. Subproject approval is also the responsibility of the Minister's Steering
Committee. lPSCo. would assess the technical and environmental acceptability of each project,
and the Private Power Unit would assess the financial viability of proposed subprojects and
consoldate the technical and financial review in an assessment report. JPSCo. and NIBJ would be
assisted by consultants (para 6.05). Based on this report, a recommendation to make a loan would
be forwarded to the Minister's Steering Committee, who would be responsible for subloan
approval. The various agencies which comprise the Committee and their functions through all
phases of the subproject's life, as well as reporting requirements, are shown in Annex 6.1.
Financing of subprojects by the Fund would only be approved when subprojects are found to be
technically, economically, and financially viable, and environmentally acceptable.
6.03   The selected subproject sponsor would be required to submit, based on the parameters
defined in his proposal, a feasibility study to the Steering Committee based on the parameters
defined by the selected sponsor's proposal. The feasibility study would cover project design,
engineeing, cost estimates, implementation angements specifications of equipment and goods,
financing plan, prices financial projections, proposed arrangements for supply of fuels, services
and sale of output, and based on the proposed structure of the elements of the contractual
arrangements (security package) provided in the bidding documents (RFP). The sponsors would
also be required to submit an environmental impact assessment, including resettlement plans, when
applicable, which would follow Bank guidelines in assessing environmental impacts and
compliance with occupational, safety and health standards (para 4.17). In its technical assessment
JPSCo. would intcLia  review: (i) suitability of the project site; (ii) availability of inputs; (iii)
appropriateness of, and proven experience with technology offered; (iv) project design; (v)
arrangements for detailed engineering; (vi) construction strategy; (vii) cost estimates; (viii)
procurement arrangements (ix) arrangements forproject opaion and maintenance; (x) compliance
with Bank's environmental guidelines and resettlement requirements. Following this review,
JPSCo. would prepar a comprehensive assessment of the technical feasibility of the subproject
The PPU would review: (i) adequacy of the financing package; (ii) financial viability of the project
under various tariff scenarios; (iii) adequacy and appropriateness of SP; and (iv) corporate
structure of the subproject company. In order to ensure that the subprojects meet the Bank's
requirements reardig quality and viability, agreements would be obtained from GOJ ageed (i}
to eleibiitv    a ftr snma of  mmist noe unis(su b ubmit an asssment reMo  o
each subpmject and (iii} subloans would be subject to pior review and annroval by the Ban
6.04   Once the recommendation to make a loan is accepted, the Unit would be responsible for
loan documentation and negotiation, as well as supervision and monitoring and fulfillment of



- 38 -
reporing and auditing requirements. A Procedures Manual for subloan approval, supervision and
monitoring is under preparation. Subloan disbursements would be handled by the Finance
Department within NIBJ. The loan approval process including the agencies involved, are shown
in Annex 6.2.
6.05   The PPU would be staffed by three professionals, including a manager, a financial
analyst and a technical specialist in power projects. These three staff would form the core of the
unit, which would be supported by short term consultants to assist in legal, technical and financial
aspects as needed. It is envisaged that the PPU would be established for a period of five years, by
which time the two subprojects (para 4.05) to be financed by the Fund would have commenced
operations. After this penod, loan administration which would primarily involve collections,
would be handled by the Finance Departnent within NIBJ. Based on a review of the existing
capabilities and experience within NIBJ, performed by Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte in March
1992, and taking into account the resources required to perform NIBTs current mandate to
implement the Government's privatization program, it will be necessary to recuit these staff from
outside. GOJ has already selected the manager of the PPU, who is acceptable to the BankL iurind
negotiations.  OJ would agree on the organizaltion and reanigsaffing of the unit,
Additionally. NTBJ will be requird to appoint consultants. satisfactor to the Bank by October 1.
1992. to assist in subproiect assessment. preparation.of loan documentation. negotiations. and
jupervigion and Moniti- o h sub=jnects.
6.06   The Fund would be financed from the proposed loans from the Bank and IDB made to
GOJ amounting to US$81 million, of which the Bank would provide US$40.5 million and the
IDB US$40.5 million. The maturity and grace period of IDB's loan would be the same as the
Bank's. Loans from the Bank and IDB would be made to the Government. The on-lending of
funds to private companies would be governed through a subloan agreement between NIBJ and the
private company. The Funds on-lending to subprojects would be denominated in US dollars, but
would be repaid in equivalent Jamaican Dollars. Movements in the J$/US$ exchange rate would
be assumed by the private sector borrowers, the cost of which would be reflected in the sale price
of power, through an indexation provision, and passed on to the consumers. The Fund's on-
lending interest rate would be variable and determined annually. The benchmark rate for the Fund
would be a risk free long-term benchmark borrowing rate such as the yield on long-term maturity
US Treasury bonds. A risk premium would be added to this benchmark rate to cover cross-
currency risks to GOJ and a guarantee fee. The premium would also include the cost of managing
and administering the Fund. This risk premium has been set initiadly at 3%. Considering the cost
of similar extemad financing and the risk premium over the benchmark, the initial onlending rate for
the first subproject has been set at 11% per annum. The on-lending rate would be adjusted
annually according to the yield on long-term maturity US Treaswuy bonds. IOJ agreed to review
with theBank byApril1of each yarbeginning withl1993. the FundA's onlelndingfinte-re-t rate and
to make any-necessar adjustments in the onlenig aein accordan-ce with the agreed
methodology. It i also proposed to provide the Project Company incentive to refinance the debt
from the Fund by bornowings on better terms from private foreign (or domestic) sources and
relieve GOJ of its debt. Under this arrangement, subproject companies who borrow from the
Fund and subsequendy refinance would be allowed to retain 50% of the savings in debt service. It
is this potential savings to the subproject company which is expected to provide the incentive to
refinance.
6.07   The repayment period for onlending the Fund's resources to subprojects, including the
resources received from the Bank, would be no greater than the terms of Bank loans to Jamaica,
i.e., up to 17 years including a grace period of up to 4/5 years. However, the exact terms would
vary depending on the subproject under considration. These repayment terms would correspond
with the economic life of power projects, thus alleviating one of the constraints to increased
involvement of the private sector in power development (para 2.20). The grace period will
facilitate completion of construction reflecting the gestation periods characteristics of power



-39 -
projects. It is expected that subloans from the Fund would cover up to 70% of the financing
required for the subproject with the remaining 30% being equity. However, in order to provide an
incentive for sponsors to miimize borrowing from the Fund, there would be a reduction in equity
contdbutions based on the amount of commercial loans mobilized. If the project sponsor is able to
mobilize at least 20% of the total financing required in the form of non-Fund debt without direct
001 guarantees, an equity of not less than, 25% of the financing required would be accepted. If
thc sponsor is able 'u3ise at least 40% of the total financing required in non-Fund debt, an equity
leve of not less than 20% would be accepted. Additionally, as an incentive for private sponsors
to mobilize non-GOJ guaranteed commercial sources of off-shore debt, subloans from the Fund
would be fully subordinated to commercial loans made to subproject.
NIBka Ctad EM
6.08   NIBJ would be paid for its cost to administer the Fund plus a management fee. The costs
to NEBJ as administrator of the Fund would include the cost of staff, including salaries, transport,
insurance, etc. The Fund would charge the subproject companies a loan application fee
(US$2,000), a loan documentation fee to be paid by project sponsors at financial closure
(US$20,000), and a project monitoring fee from financial closure until final loan repayment of
0.25% for the frst five years, with a maximum of US$150,000. After the first five years, it will
be 0.125% per annum with a maximum of US$75,000. These fees, including the ceiling, will be
subject to escalation at US inflation rates. Subloans would also carry a commitment fee. A five-
year projection for the operation of the PPU is presented in Annex 6.3.
B. Operational Framework for Private Sector Subprojects
6.09   In order to encourage private investments in the energy sector, there is a need for a clearly
defined process for review, selecdon and approval of subprojects. This would give the investors
cfidence in investing in developing the subprojects. As private investoms and commercial lenders
would be required to take project specific risks withoat direct government guarantees, GOJ would
also need to take measures to eliminate sovereign risk and provide a clear definition of the
responsibilities and obligatons of each party. In response to GOJ's request, the Bank is assisting
in tie design and implementation of a fmework for the operation of pnvately owned subprojects.
The framewvork would include: (i) eligibility criteria for subprojects; (ii) measures to attract private
investments; and (iii) a security package consisting of a set of agreements between GOJ, lenders,
investors and the project company. These elements are described below and detailed in Annex 6.4.
(a)   igihkjJi  (CrieiafoSuj    : Subprojects should form a part of the least cost
investment program for the energy sector and be competitive in price. They would
also be required to be technically, financially, economically viable, and
envirommentally acceptable. Subprojects should be implemented by private
companies (i.e., 51% of shares held by private parties) incorporated in Jamaica.
Repayment of debt, including repayment to the Fund, and retums on equity should
not require direct GOJ guarantees.
(b)   MOM= ta         aPrvae I_      : These would include long-term debt from
the Fund which would be subordinated to commercial lenders, and an agreed
purchase price of energy based on internationally accepted operating norms,
sufficient to cover the opeting costs, debt servioe and returns on equity for private
investors, with an agreed adjustment provisions for changes in costs beyond the
investor's controL The prices paid would not be based on a cost plus formula. In
additon, investors would be fiee to repatriate profits and the Government would
guarantee the obligatons of JPSCo. These measures would be incorporated in the
Power Purchase Agreement and the Implementation Agreement.



-40.
(C)       S      :  Each subproject would require a set of agreements between the
subproject company, G0J, JPSCo., and the lenders which define responsibilides
and obligations of each of the parties to the agreements. These agreements would
also incrprate measures to attract private sector investments. The Implementation
Agreement (IA) would be entered into between GOJ and the subproject company
and would outline the rights and obligations of each party for the life of the
agreement which would be expected to be the life of the subproject. The Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) would be entered into between the subproject company
and JPSCo. It would define the price of energy purchased, performance standards,
obligations to purchase and arrangements for liquidated damages and dispute
resolution. The Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) would be entered into between the
entity supplying the fuel and the subproject company, which would specify, i1
alia, the quantity, quality delivery schedule and liquidated damages. These
agreements for the first subproject have been finalized under Bank guidance and
would form the basis of the security package for future subprojects. In the event
the operation and maintenance of a subproject is contracted out, an Operations and
Maintenance Agreement, would be executed between the subproject company and
the O&M contractor. Other agreements comprising the SP would include a
Construction Contract, Shareholders Agreement for the subproject company, and
Escrow Agreements. GOJ ageed to: (f execute an In Agment
with the suboroiect company: and (ii) cause the subpoje  to enter ino a
Power Purchase Agm=CosrutonAma=Qcf n-  anteac
^ ;xeemet. and an othier aremn    ire foIWead   &Io
o the suboroject satisfactoril.   OJ alsogd   guarane the payment
obligation of JSCo. in the PowerPurchase&A Peunt
VIL  PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM FOR THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Power Subsector
7.01   GOJ has adopted a two-pronged approach to increase private sector participation in the
power sector. The first part involves GOJ's solicitation of private investors to develop new
generation capacity on a BOO basis. These projects would be regulated through the contracts
entered into by the private sponsor, the Government and JPSCo. In parallel, GO would initiate
the establishment of a regulatory framework for the operation and the privatization of JPSCo.,
including investment planning, tariff setting mechanism, environmental standards, etc. The
objectives of the regulatory framework would be to ensure economic and efficient operations,
reliable power supply to the consumer, and consistent and independent tariff policy. Independent
regulatory oversight will give private investors' confidence and, therefore, help to increase private
investment. At the same time, the elmination of the direct link between JPSCo. and GO will
require effective oversight to protect Jamaican consumers and investors (para 2.15).
7.02   In an effort to further the initial steps taken by GO, the proposed Project would support
GO's privatization program through technical assistance. Consultants with intemational
experience in power sector privatization and reguladon will assist GOJ in formulating a
pnvatdzation program and an appropnate regulatory regime. Terms of reference for the
consultants' study are detailed in Annex 7.1. The objecdve of the study would be threefold: (a)
recommend an institutional structure for a privately-owned power sector and regulatory regime,
which would promote: (i) the investment of foreigp and local capital in the sectr and broaden local
ownership; (ii) efficient and reliable lectnicity supply at least cost; (iii) e ntally acceptable
operation of the power sector, (b) define ownership of constituent utility(ies) as well as a
regulatory framework consistent with the recommended ownership structure; and (c) propose a



-41 .
strategy to implement the institutional, regulatory and ownership changes recommended. This
study would be financed from the Japanese Grant Facility administered by the Bank, and is
expected to becompleted by Febnury, 1993.
7.03   The proposed study would be a complex and time-consuming undertaking. It is,
therefore, critical that the study is well planned and proceeds accoreing to a schedule, lest the
process be delayed and the momentum achieved so far for the Govern! -mes privatization program
eroded. GOJ has submitted a letter of policy oudining its policy for pri- ..z sector participation in
the power sector, deregulation and privatization. This letter has been reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable.    would be            to the   k for     
for the orivatization and dereguIaton of the power subsector includi  the ownershi
grgInigation of all pwer sector entities. as wenl as a plan for its impeetton accepabl to fte
Bank within three months of the subbmison of the consultant's reprt and shall implement the
strategy as agreed with the Bank. Based on this, the privatization strategy would be put into effect
in line with the agred timetable for implementation.
B. Petroleum Subsector
7.04   Like the power subsector, GOJ has also adopted a two-pronged approach to increase
private sector participation in the petroleum subsector. The first step involved GOJ liberalization
and deregulaton of distribution and retail margins which allows marketing companies to set their
own wholesale and retail prices, although Petrojam still sets these ex-refinery prices (para 2.11).
While the current ex-refinery pricing system represents a step towards opening Jamaica's
petroleum market to compedtion, this needs further refinement to eliminate entry barriers. In
paraleL the second step involves the privatization of Petrojam oil refinery and the establishment of
a regulatory framework to foster cometition for petroleum product implrts as well as downstream
acdvities, i.e, storage/tankage, tanspon, wholesale and retail distribution. PCU and Petrojam
continue to enjoy a de facto monopoly of petleum products' imports. Under the present regime,
while Petrojam enjoys exemptions from import duties, all other importers are subject to prohibidve
duties (para 2.16). Ihe objective of the regulatory framework would be to eliminate Petrojam's
imports monopoly.
7.05   The proposed Project would support GOAs liberalization, deregulation and privatization
program through technical assistance. Consultants with the necessary intemational experience in
petroleum deregulation and legislation and privatization of national oil companies and publicly
owned refineres would assist GOJ in formulating a libealizaion strategy for the petroleum sector
and a progam for the privaization of the Petrojam refiney. The consultancy assignment would
have the fllowing objectives: (a) to determine the steps necessary to eliminate Petrojam's import
monopoly and establish a competitve, non-protected petroleum products sectr at the impo,
refining, transport, distribution, wholesale and retailing stages; (b) to determine appropnate,
transparent marcet-based pricing principles which do not compromise GOrs current fiscal
objectives; and (c) to develop a privatization strategy for Perjam consistent with its efficient
operation in a competitive envionment. Terms of reference for the consultancy assignment are
presented in Annex 7.2.
7.06   This study would also be commissioned by GOJ and funded by the Japan Grant Facility,
administerd by the Bank and would take about 6 months to be completed. Proposals to undertake
this study have been received and evaluated and an intrationally reputable firm has ben selected.
12.



-42 -
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
8.01    Currently long-term non-recourse financing for private sector energy projects in Jamaica
is lacking. The Fund to be established under the proposed Project would fill this gap and establish
a vehicle to channe long-term financing to private sector projects. The Bank would also play a
significant role in mobilizing cofinancing resources for the Fund to provide addidonal long-term
financing for subprojects, as well as private sources to finance subprojects. The Bank's role in
establishing the regulatory framework and institutional capability for the intrduction of private
sector into the energy sector through new investments and privatization is also critical. Given the
Bank's previous experience in developing private sector involvement in the energy sector, the
transfer of this knowledge would expedite the establishment of privately owned generation capacity
and privatization of lPSCo.
B. Project Benefits
8.02   The proposed Project would provide urgently needed capacity in the pcwer sector and
mobilize significant cofinancing resources to provide long-term financing to private sector energy
projects. It would establish a framework for the opeation of privately owned energy projects and
assist in mobilizing private debt and equity capital for these subprojects. It would also support
GiOl's program of deregulation and privadzation in the energy sector by establishing a regulatory
framework to enhance operating efficiency and attact pnvate investment thereby reducing public
^ctr investment.
C. Project Risks
8.03   There are four major risks associated with the proposed Project: (a) inadequate capability
to appraise the two private sector subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan, negotiate the
agreements required for the lenders' and investors' security and supervise and monitor the
subprojects. This risk would be addressed through technical assistance being provided under the
Japanese Grant Facility and also a consultant to be financed under the proposed Project; (b)
unsatsfactory proposals being submitted by private sector to develop and finance the two
subprojects. In order to mininnze this risk, potential investors are being prequalified to ensure that
only qualified and capable sponsors bid on each subproject; (c) financial closure may not be
achieved i a timely manner and consequently new investments would be delayed. In order to
minimize this risk and in recognition that private power projects financed under limited recourse
arrangements is a untested approach in Jamaica, provision would be made for the Fund to finance
up to 100% of the debt financmg required for each subproject, while incentives would be given to
the potential sponsors to mobilize debt from other commercial sources on a limited recourse basis
(pam 6.07); (d) privadzation of JPSCo. and Petrojam could be delayed or hindered because of the
limited capacity of the local capital markot and the inability to raise the relatively large amounts of
capital required. Phased approaches to divestiture and incentives to attract foreign investors would
be explored in the privatization studies to mitigate against this riskl-
D. Economic Justification
ld  ED   ity An
8.04   JPSCo.'s electricity sales increased at an average annual rate of 5.6% during the period
1981-92. Growth in consumption has been strongest in the residential and large industral sectors
during that period. The forecast sales of electricity for the period 1993-2011 are 3.7% per year.
Details on the forecast demand are given in Annex 8.1. The drp in the growth rate is based on the
assumption that JPSCo. would adjust tariffs in order to maintain the average tariff constant at its



-43-
1992 level in real terms, which takes account of the 'Arge tariff adjustment implemented by the
company in December, 1991. Also, the moderate sales growth reflects the long-term effects of a
slowdown in GDP growth in 1990 and 1991.
Least Opst Altmtie
8.05   The least cost expansion plan has been prepared by the Swedish consultants SWECO for
JPSCo. under Swedish bilateral financing. The least cost plan developed by SWECO was
reviewed as part of the ESMAP study (para 2.11). This plan was modified slightly by JPSCo.,
and was reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. This least cost plan shows the first 30 MW
combustion turbine unit coming on line in 1993, the 60 MW low speed diesel plant coming on line
in 1995, and the second 30 MW combustion turbine unit coming on line in 1996.
Fconomic InRnal Rate of Retum
8.06   An analysis of the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is contained in Annex 8.1.
The EIRR calculation and the details related to the assumptions used are shown in Annex 8.2. The
EIRR for the proposed Project is about 26%, based on the measurable costs and benefits. The
measurable costs include: (a) the capital costs of the two power plants to be financed under the
proposed Project, i.e., the 60 MW combusdon turbine plant, the first 30 MW unit of which would
be implemented by lPSCo., while the second 30 MW unit is implemented by the private sector,
and the 60 MW low speed diesel plant to be implemented by the private sector, (b) operation and
mnaintenance csts for each plant over their expected useful life; and (c) the fuel costs associated
with the two plants, which were expressed at their respective border prices. Local costs were
expressed at their border prices by using a standard conversion factor of 0.8. The measurable
econoic benefits to be derived from the proect are JPSCo.'s incremental sales associated with the
two plants over the useful life of these facilities. Sales were valued at JPSCo.'s average revenue
per kilowatt hour, expressed in constant in 1992 US dollars, which was estimated at
US$.1 17/kWh.
8.07   As an alternative measure of project benefits, incremental sales were valued using
consumers' willingness to pay. As a proxy for consumers' willingness to pay, the cost of existing
autogeneration facilities for three categories of consumers was calculated. For residential
consumers, the capital, operating and fuel costs of small gas generators were estimated; for small
commercial and industral consumers, similar cost were estimated for medium sized diesel
generators; and for large commercial and industral consumers, tie cost of large diesel generators
were esdmated. Based on these cost estimates, a weighted average consumers' willingness to pay
was estimated at US$.15/kWh. If the project benefits are valued at willingness to pay as
estimated, the project's estimated EIRR increases significandy to about 38%. Detail on the
willingness to pay calculations are presented in Annex 8.3.
8.08    A sensitivity analysis was caiTied out for the project to test the project's rate of return
under various scenarios. The main risks to the project can be divided into the following categories:
t Risk:Development risk for the private projects represents a delay in financial
closure. This would result in a delay in commismg,which would cause an increase in
capital cost, reflecting increased IDC and increased development cost incurred by the
developers. The analogous risk for the public sector project is a delay in the start of
construction, which would also cause an increase the caital cost through increases in MDC
For both the public and private sector projecs, a delay m commissioning would also result
in a delay in revenuegeneed by the plant.
:ana~an.2jaka: Constrcdon risks are absorbdo  by the private developer trough an
erosion in the retmn to equity shareholdes, as the developer is required to base his taiff on



-44-
fixed equipment supply and construction cost. In the public sector, construction risk is
bome by the Government.
Operaing iRsks: Operating risk can be divided into the risk of deficient operation of the
plant which would result in higher O&M costs, and for private sector projects given their
limited recourse natire, the risk of non-payment for electricity supply. This latter risk is
mitigated through GOJ's guarantee of JPSCo.'s payments.
8.09    The main quantifiable risks are delays in commissioning resulting from development
risks, which cause increases in capital c.asts and delay revenues, and operating risks which
increase O&M costs. Several scenarios were tested to determine the sensitivity of the project to
various degrees of capital cost increases and O&M cost increases, combined with a delay in the
revenues from the plants under the proposed Project. The maximum feasible delay for the private
sector projects was taken as one year. A prolonged delay in financial closure beyond one year
would likcely result in abandonment or bankruptcy of the private sector projects. Hence, for the
purposes of sensitvit analysis, the implementation of the projects were delayed one year with the
consequent one yeardelay nm revenue inflows. A range of capital cost increases were tested along
with a delay in revenues for one year, to determine the impact of such delays on the proposed
Project's rate of return. Annex 8.2 contains a table which details the various combinations of
capital and O&M cost increases tested and their effect on the rate of return. With capital cost
increases of 50% and no O&M cost increase, the project's rate of return falls from 26%k to 18%.
Increasing O&M costs along with increasing the capital cost revealed that the project was
somewhat more sensitive to increases in O&M costs. With only a small increase in capital cost of
10%, resulting from the delay in commissioning, and an increase of 40% in operating costs, the
project's rate of return falls from 26% to 12%. These results indicate that the project's rate of
return is robust given the conceivable iisk faced by the project.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01   During negotiations GOJ agred:
(a) to the outline mitigation plan for Hunts Bay (par 4.16);
(b) to fumish to the Bank and the other cofinanciers of the Fund: (i) quarterly progress
reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) annual financial statements
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, no later dtan six months
after the end of each financial year (para 4.24);
(c)  to undertake a mid-term review of the implementation -of the proposed Project,
jointly with the Bank, by December 1, 1994 (para 4.24);
(d) to cause National Water Commission to obtain the guarantee of a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank, guarnteeing NWC's electricity payments to JPSCo. in an
amount equivalent to not less than 90% of the last 3 months billing. NWC shaU
review with JPSco. the adequacy of this letter of credit on an annual basis and
adjust it if required to an amount necessary to condnue to guarantee NWC's
payments for eectricity (para 5.15);
(e) on the final scope and content of JPSCo.'s Corporate Action Plan (FY93-97). In
additon, GOI and JPSCo. agreed to review annually with the Bank JPSCo.'s
performance against the parameters agreed in the plan and to take corrective



4
*45-
measures acceptable to the Bank to remeLy any shortcomings in performance (para
5.16);
(f)  that JPSCo.'s existing financial covenants would be repeated under the proposed
Project, which provide for JPSCo. achieving an 8% rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets for each fiscal year, as well as debt service and liquidity covenants
(para 5.24);
(g) on the scope and substance of the Administration Agreement between GOJ and
NIBJ (para 6.01);
(h) (i) to eligibility criteria for approval of private power subprojects; (ii) to submit an
assessment report for each subproject; and (iii) that subloans would be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank (para 6.03);
(i)  on the organization and staffing of the private power unit in NIBJ. Addtionally,
NIBJ will be required to appoint consultants, satisfactory to the Bank by October 1,
1992, to assist in subproject assessment, preparation of loan documentation,
negotiations, and supervision and monitoring of the subprjects (pam 6.05);
0j)  to review with the Bank by April 1 of each yeaw beginning with 1993, the Fund's
onlending interest rate and to make any adjustments in the lending rate in
accodance with the agreed methodology (pam 6.06);
(k) (i) execute an Implementation Agreement with the subproject company; and (ii)
cause the subproject company to enter into a Power Purchase Agreement,
Construction Agreement, Operation and Maintenance Agreement, and any other
agreement required for the implementation and operation of the subproject
satisactorily (pam 6.09(c));
(1)  to guarantee the payment obligation of JPSCD. in the Power Purchase Agreement
(para 6.09 (c));
(m) to submit to the Bank for review and approval a strategy for the privatization and
deregulaton of the power subsector consultant's report, including the ownership
and organization of all power sector entities, as well as a plan for its implementation
acceptable to the Ba  within three months of the consultant's report, and shall
implement the strategy as agreed with the Bank (pam 7.03); and
(n) to review the conclusions and recommendadons of the petroleum subsector study
by January 1993 (pam 7.06).
9.02   During negotiations GOJ confirmied:
(a) that no additional environmental approval is required from any of its agencies (para
4.16); and
(b) that the loan agreement between the Fund and the subproject companies would
include specific provisions regarding compLiance with environmental guidelines,
satsfactory to the Bank (par 4.17);



-46-
9.03   During negotiations, JPSCo. agreed:
(a) to submit to the Bank by July 31, 1992 the consultants' report on the modified tariff
structure for review am comment (para 5.03);
(b) to update by December 1, 1992 the existing marginal cost studies using consultants
acceptable to the Bank (para 5.04); and
(c) to convert all accounts receivable from National Water Commission as of May 31,
1992 to a loan to be repaid over 30 months effective September 1992, with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.15).
9.03   The following actions will be the conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Project:
(a) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOJ and JPSCo. satisfactory to
the Bank (para 4.07);
(b) GOJ would be required to have made arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
cofinanciers for cofinancing of the proposed Project. (para 4.07);
(c) Reciept of responsive proposals by JPSCo. for the installation of the first
combustion turbine (pam 4.13);
(d) Submission of an environmental mitigation plan for the Hunts Bay site whose
timing, scope and execution strategy are acceptable to the Bank (para 4.16); and
(e) Execution of the Administration Agreement between GOJ and NIBJ (para 6.01)



*    11i111111h%    a
2           1W
Wg : : g 1
fflAH
LLEf    0~~~~
LX>7- jli
SE}0   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
XtW_"x""""x"x6xx^g~~~~~~
l'Z xoWV   |   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
ot~~~~~~~~~~~



- 48 -
Annex 2.2
F1KJIr
o~~~



ENERGY BALANCE 1991
('000 Barrel Fuel Oil Equivalent)
Crude    Refined    Total    Electric
Oil    Products  Petroleum    Power      Coal   Blomsss(2)  Total
Energy Supplis
Primary Energy
Production                                  192(l)                2,026      2,218
Impons    6,622    11,130    17,752                    272                18,024
Exports               (260)      (260)                                     (260)
Bunkers                                                                    (781)
Slockl -Ct        54       478        632                   2041                328
Conversion
Refining    (6,417)    6,417        0                                          0
Power Generaion             (4,108)   (4,108)    4,108                                0
Chacoal                             0                             (103)     (103)
Conversion                            0     (3.040)                (657)   (3,697)
Own Use               (276)      (276)        (4)                           (280)                                     1
Trans. & DieL Loses                           0       (230)                           (230)                                     4
Other LAW"e     (259)               J2591       (341                            (93)q
Consumption
by Economic Sector
Baudxt Alum. Ind.             7,469     7,469                                      7,469
Aviation (bc.)              461        461                                       461
Transport               2,442     2,442                                      2,442
Cemnwt Ind.               503       503                    68                  571
Sugar hd.               298        298         1                   607        906
011w Menu?. Sector              328        328       170                              498
Cormercial Sector                                    419                             419
Government                128        128        76                             204
Households                556       556       323                   659      1,538
Olhers                415       415          3                             418
(1) HydpM
(2) kichd tielood ad bga
Source: Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy



ENW ER DEREOULATION AND PRlVATIZAlION RlC
Grow&hRdt.(*)
156      361       ISP      ISP       1554      1565     155       156      196       155      155       1591         15 5           19151(1)          l5641()
A     __(pRom=(XAW                  021       026       027      029       054      069       Q3        0.66      .5       067      Q70       1.06           22%                6%               15%
Am w ainRedTm                       0.21      024       O2m       021      029      030       02        0.21     Ol.       Q17      0.14      014             6%              -11%               -3%
(ISMBQ       W
AVm.R(WSAW                          0.12      0.15.    0.1       0.15      Q.14     0.12      0.11     0.12      0.12      0.12     0.10      0606            is               4%                -3%
M                                  A160.0    1M0.0    IOD      173.5    341.1    379.2    380.0    346.3    3464         3825     444.7                      5%                3%                9%
LPG                                 93.9    101.5    114A       111.9    190.6    221.6    222.0    265.2    265.2    265.7    285A                          15%                4%               10%
iaFued                              81.5      88.0     77.7      81.1    128.    152.8    155.1    154.8    155.0    155.9         200A                      10%                5%                7%
bd Oil                              44.3      61.5     6Q0       57.2    130.1    1468        85.4    104.8      79.4     89.4    128.7                      22%               -2%                9%
Dicsl                               97.4      99.1     99.1    107.4    226.9    2623        2719     271.8    271.8      73.4     393.                      18%                7%               12%
Real Pk (I9t Ron Yew)
G lae                              160D.0    148.1     35.6    126.6    184.4    162.7    138.7    112.8         97.6     94.9      893                       0%              -10%               -5%
LPG                                 93.9      94.0       7DO     81.7    10L.       95.1      81.0     86.4      74.7     65.9      57.3                      0%               4%                -4%
JP.ed                               88.5      81.5     658       59.2      69S      65.6      56.6     50.4      43.7     38.I      40.2                     -5%               4%                -6%
Fd OR                               44.3      57.0     50.8      41.7      70.3     63.0      31.2     34.1      22.4     22.2      25.8                      6%              -14%              .4%
Did                                 97.4      91.8     84.0      7a4      122.7    1126       992      885       76.6     67.8      789                       2%               46%               -2%
OmIt.                                9.9      89.9  t 9.9        89.9      56.      6a2       693      63.1      63.1     665       61.9                     .4%               -2%               -3%
W0                                  523       57.1     643       58.0      48.4     39.9      40.5     483       483      46.2      39.8                     -5%                0%               -2%
Ji%Pod                              49.7      49.4     43A       42,C    32.7       27.5      283      282       282      27.1      27S                      -9S                0%               -5%
NedOi                               24.9      34.      33.7      29A       33.0     264       15.6     19.1      14.5     15        17.9                      1%               .6%               -3%
Dind                                54.7      55.7     55.7      55.7     57A       47.2     49.6      49.5      49.5     47.5      54.7                     .2%                3%               0%
Jmat     l ca'1980m  100                       100        III;     137      1385      233      274       307      355       403      498       750
Aw._RmW AJ3)                         L73       1.78      1.71     1.93      3.94     5.56      5S.      5.49      5.49     5.75      7.18     13.00
(1)d pmkmpricebVowmd                             drepuiods 1985S9md 1980
Pell_Cwwwdofmk
Scnes   kmuydftblc Uda.r4mym i m
wP3SOu



- 51 -
Annex 3. 1
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROaC
Jamaica Public Service Convay Limited
Installed Generating Caoacitv as of March 31. 1992
Nominal  Nominal                                      Total
Manutacturer             Date of   Plate     MCR    Heat Rate         Difference       Nominal
Station      Unit  Type  Bdler               Turbine            Comm.    MW         MW      BTUrkWh           Due to           MCR
Old Harbour   #1    OFS   Francotosi         Francotosi          1968       33.00     33.00    16,600
#2    OFS   Hiachi              Hltachi            1970       60.00     60.00    13,300
#3    OFS   Foster Wheeler      General Eectric    1972       68.50     55.00    12960   Boller Defidency
#4    OFS   Foster Wheeler      General Electc     1973       68.50     68.50    12,500
HuntsBay     #1    OFS   Baboock&Wilcox                          1953       12.50     10.00    13,500
#2    OFS                                          1955       12.50                       Retired
33    OFS                       Parsons            1958       15.00               13,000  Bollerusedwith#4
#4    OFS                                          1960       15.00     13.00             #3 Boler used
#5    OFS                       Acc Elect. Ind.    1962       20.00     20.00    14,750
#6    OFS   Foster Wheeler      GneralB ctrIc      1976       68.50     68.50    12,363                             11tSO
Eninre             Generator
Rocktort     #1    8D       tAsubishl        Medinsha            1985       20.00     20.00     3.200
#2    SS    Mitsubishi          M@dhsha            1985       20.00     20.00      9,200
Bogue        #11   D      Gneral Motors                          1946        1.50
HuntsBayGT  #1    GT    GeneralElecc                             1968       16.50     14.00    18,500  Pealdngforshort
priods only
Hunts Bay GT  #2    GT    General Electric                       1969       16.50     14.00    1,00
HuntsSayGT  #4    GT    John Brown                               1974       22.80     20.00    18,403
HuntsBayGT  #5    GT    JohnBrown                                1974       22.60     20.00    18.403
Bogue        #3    OT    John Brown                              1973       22.80     20.00    18,403
Bogue        #6    GT    GTCorporaion                            1990       18.50     15.00    12,700
Bogue        #7    GT    GTCcrporapmon                           1990       18.50     15.00    12,700
Bogue        #8    GT    GTCer,orarlon                           1992       16.50     16.50    12,700
Bogue        #9    GT    GTCor,oration                           1992       24.00     24.00    12,700 D,
Nagotty             HYD                      Harland Engineering  1959       6.40      6.40             Hydrooulputvares
LWhlle River        HYD                      Harl%nd Engineedng  1952        4.60      4.70             wfthwater fbw
Roaring River       HYD                      Hariand Engineering  1949       4.50      4.50
U.White River       HYD                      Harlmnd Engins@rlg  1945        3.60      Z60
Rio Bueno           HYD                      Har"nd Engineering  1966        2.50      250
Constant Spring     HYD                                          1989        0.80      0.80
Rio Buno B          HYD                                          1989        1.10      1.10
Rams Horn           HYD                                          1959        OA0       0.40            (Firm cap)                 ILQQ
Total System Generation Capaadty         544.50
Lgnd:        OFS   il Fired Steam
SSD   Slow Speed Dissl
GT   Gas Turbine
D     Dies



LAMAICA
ENERGY SECOR DEVEUATON ADPRIVTZTON
JPSCo. Ke  Pfo lanehdcatols
Acduab vs. Fourth Power T*ueb                                                                        Forecast
198                19l8             199               1990             1991             1992             1993    1994    1999    196    1997
PERFORMANCEAREWA                            I Md  AlM  laMd ATdMud A1  Is= AMdaM Td Zt  11
L MARKET PENSTRAMON
Peak DnmdMW)                              271        255      297     262      305     268       323     275      329     283     344      290     331      365     365      365     365
Net OGmam (Wb)                           1916       1560    1710    1623    1651    1651        1934    1681    2005    1711    2100    1724    2032    2092    2157    2237    2328
Tota Sas (GWh)                           1542       1264    1370    1315    1271    1354        1569    1395    1632    1437    1697    1465    1646    1694    1747    1812    1886
AveAbofmaoud       (WO                    260        258      271     261      281     271       294     273      310     283     330      289     337      343     350      357     364
2. EWICIENCY
No. PamanEmplWby                         1650       1740    1604    1725   I17        1750      1617    1800    1763    I850    1850    1851850    1850    1850    1850    1850
C    bEJno, Pam Empo1y                    158        148      169     153      179     155       182     154      148     153      178     156     182      186     189      193     197
MWb SddNo Pameflnp                       0.935      0726   0854   0.762   09   0.773            097   0.775   0.926       m77   0.917   0.792    0.89   0.916   Q944   0.979   1.019
Lomes(5nu gnian)                          19%        19%     20%      19%     23%     18%       19%     17%      18%      16%     19%     15%      19%     19%      19%     19%      19%
Load  Fflem (a    pat)                                                                                                                            70%      70%     70%      70%     70%
Ave. Heat Rae (BTUIKWh)                 11616      12400   11953   12250   12512   12250    13306   12750   13240   12400   13315   12550   13082   13082   13X0    13000   13000
3 QUALITY OF SERVICE
Pint Availailty (S)
HumsBaySmu=)-UnitB6              1/                                                                                                                 60      85      85       85       85
H   s Bay (Sea)                            82         82      82       82     S       81        76      76    74.2       81       85      81       85      85       85       S5      85
Old Hubor                                  82         82    83.3    83.3    82.8    82.6        82.7    82.7    92.8    82.4       81      81      S       SO       SO      80       80
RoS mSC 88                                            86                C 86   88      86        88       86     100      87       87      87       90      90       90      90       90
GasTubine                                  88         88      88       8       88      S8        87      87    90.3       85    90.3       85       85      S5       85      S5       85
4 LOSS REDUCllON
System  Power Facr                                    92               95               95                Q5       85      95      85               90       90      90       90      90        D
bsiDuiendO                                          9000            20500             4000              500   11100    5000   11100               9DOD    5000    50D0    5000    5000
Capaio  (KVAR)
& FINANCIAL
RoedRofetm (%)                          1.15%      5.70%   6.45%   5.00%   7.40%   6.00%    Q52%   8.0D%   432%   8.00%   7.15%   8.00%   8.30%   830%   8.10%   8.10%   8.10%
DdeW/Eqiy (%)                             0.71       0.59    0.68    056    0.55    0.58        0.46    0.77    0.50    0.66    0.60    0.79    034    0.34    0.31    028          0.28
Det Seavic  CovaeRato                     1.72       1.40    2.18     1.90    1.46    2.00      1.75    230    2.36    2.10       1.30    1.90     1.65    1.87    2.00    2.3    4.02
Colecuton Peiod (days)                     43         59       46      67       68      67        68      67      66       67      125      67      99       78      75       74      74
11 Unt #B6 shown  perly to reflect its rehabiliaum.



- 53 -
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
Sect Descrvtio
1.   The proposed Project would consist of: (a) the installation of about 120 MW of power
generation capacity consisting of a 60 MW low-speed diesel plant in the private sector and a 60
MW combustion turbine plant of which the first 30 MW would be in the public sector and the
second 30 MW unit would be in the private sector, (b) the installation of associated transmission
lines and substations; (c) establishment and operation of a Private Sector Energy Fund to provide
long term financing for private investment in the power sector, and (d) consulting services to assist
JPSCo. and GOJ in implementing the project.
A. RofteslrP lat
2.   This component consists of a complete 60 MW low speed diesel power facility to be built,
owned and operated by a private sector project company established in Jamaica solely for this
purpose. It is expected that three low speed diesel generator units of 20 MW each will be provided
and these units would be capable of continuous base load operation on heavy fuel oil at a capacity
factor of 80 percent.
3.   The diesel engines will be low speed, stationary, standard manufacturer's design and will
be direcdy coupled to the generator. The air cooled generators will be rated each at 20 MW (net
output), 0.80pf (lagging), 13,800 volts, 50Hz, 3 phase and sized to match the output of the diesel
engine. Auxiliary systems will include fuel oil storage and unloading facilities for a minimum 21
days storage, lubrication system, diesel engine cooling water system, plant fire protection system,
black start generator, etc. along with standard electrical and control systems to operate the diesel
generator units. The plant site facilities will include an administration building, a
workshop/warehouse building, a cooling water pumphouse with piping, a security gate house and
site improvements such as parking, lighting, fencing, etc. to complete the power station.
4.   The associated switchyard work consists of step-up transformers rated at 37.5 MVA, 60
kV-SF6 type circuit breakers and high voltage protective relaying and instrumentation, along with
the necessary bus work, insulators, and supporting structures to connect the new plant into the
existing Rockfort substation.
B.  ansmnission System/Interconnection
5.   This component consists of new 69 kV overhead transmission lines including related
substation modifications to connect existing substations at Hunts Bay, Cane River, West Kings
House Road, and Greenwich Road in order to provide the additional transmission and distribution
capacity required to handle the new Rockfort 60 MW low speed diesel units and the new Hunts
Bay gas turbines.
6.   The scope of work shall include design, supply, erection, testing, inspection, and
commissioning of 69 kV double circuit transmission lines on lattice steel towers along with
additional substation switching and relay work as required to provide a complete system.



- 54 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
C.   Hunts Bay Combustion Turbine Plant
7.    This component consists of an oil fired gas turbine, electrical generating plant composed of
two units with a capacity each of 30-35 MW nominal. The gas turbine units will be purchased and
installed in two phases, the first unit being commissioned in 1994 and the second unit in 1996.
The first gas turbine will be in the public sector and transferred to private investors for operation
under arrangements to be worked out at a later stage. This gas turbine generation unit is capable of
peaking/imtermediate service in simple cycle operation on No. 2 fuel oil. Provision will be made
for future combined cycle conversion for potential base load operation.
8.    The combustion gas turbines will be a simple cycle machine complete with intake filters,
control cab and exhaust stack. Auxiliary equipment on a separate skid will include diesel engine
starter, lube oil pumps, reservoir and coolers; fuel oil system, hydraulic control oil system, cooling
water pump and fuel atomizing air system. This fuel oil system will include two storage tanks for
18 days of operation. The air cooled generator will be rated at 30-35 MW electrical power at 3
phase, 13.8 kV, 40 Hz. The additional plant site facilities will include control room, electrical
switchgear room, waster water treatment plant, fire pumphouse, and fuel oil storage, treatment,
and transfer facilities.
9.    The generated power from the gas turbines will be converted to 69 kV at the main power
transformer. The gas turbine generators will be connected via an underground cable system to the
extended existing 69 kV bus system of the Hunts Bay substation "B."
D. Consultancy Services
10.   Consultancy services would be required to: (i) assist in the management of a Private Sector
Energy Fund to be established under the proposed Project which would provide long term
financing for private investments in the power subsector, (ii) prepare the 60 MW diesel power
station and the second 30 MW combustion turbine unit for solicitation of private sponsors; (iii)
assist GOJ in the solicitation, evaluation, appraisal, negotiation and supervision of the diesel power
subpwroject; (iv) develop a contractual framework for the BOO projects and a regulatory framework
for the operation of the power subsector, and (v) develop and implement a privadzation strategy for
JPSCo. and Petrojam.



JAMAICA
ENERGY SECrOR DEGUA'llION AND PRIVATIZAnlN PROJECr
(% Tota)
(is Miion)                         (USS Milon)
%Poig
Cont Emomt                               Local    Foreitn       Totia         Locd     Foreign      Total      Exchanse  Bae Coss
A. 3-2D MWE DisIdEgia                   410.8      1313.2     1724.0          18.3        58.6       77.0          76.2        59.3
B. Comnbustion Turbine
1. CombustionTwbine-Unitl            113.5      421.7      535.3            5.1       18.8       23.9          78.8        18.4
2. CombustionTuwbine-Unit 2           79.5      349.4      426.9            3.5       15.6       19.1          81.5        14.8
Sub-Totd                                193.0       771.2      964.2           8.6        34.4       43.0          80.0        33.2
C. Transmission Lines                    39.0       118.0      157.0           1.7         5.3        7.0          75.1         5.4       1
D. Pivatse Emgy Fund &                    0.0        60.5       60.5           0.0        2.7         2.7         100.0        2.1
Envronmtal Mitigation
TotalBASECCOSTS                         642.9      2262.8     2905.7          28.7       101.0      129.7          77.9       100.0
E. Physical Contingencies                49.2       126.6      175.7           2.2        5.6         7.8           7.2         6.0
F. Price Contingencies                  471.9       886.7     1358.6          10.0        8.6        18.6          46.1        14.3
To4a P'ROJECrCOSTrS                     1164.0     3276.0     4440.0          40.9       115.2      156.1          73.8       120.4
May 20.1992
{D X
_ 



JAMACA
ENERGY SECR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Summary Account by ProfjWct Comonent
fJ$ Million)
Pvt                   Physical           Price
3-20  Combus Combus            Energy                  C    ondc;
MWE    -tion    -tion  Transmi  Fnd &
Diesel  Turbine  Turbine  -ssion    Env
Cost Elements                           Engine  Unit 1   Unit 2   Lines   Mtig     Total         Amount      %   Amount
I. INVESICOSI
A. Equipunst                         1229.9   364.3   347.e   97.8    0.0  2039.3        5.2   106.9   44.8   913.7
B. Civil Wor                          397.8    92.7    52.9   38.9    0.0   582.3    10.0    58.2    62.9   366.4
C. GrowndigLighting                     0.0     0.0     0.0     3.7    0.0       3.7    10.0     0.4    26.4     1.0
D. EngineainglAdmin.                   82.9    70.4    18.5    16.7    0.0   188.5       5.4    10.3    30.8    58.1
F. Technicd Assstnce                   13.4     7.8    10.1     0.0   60.5    91.8       0.0     0.0    21.2    19.5
Total BASECOSTS                          1724.0   535.3   428.9   157.0   60.5  2905.7      6.0   175.7    46.8  1358.6               1
Physial Contingencies                 105.4    31.0    23.6    15.7    0.0   175.7                                               Ln
Price Contingencies                   863.1   142.3   279.5    61.9   11.7  1358.6       6.0    81.2                             0"
Total PROJBCTCOSrS                       2692.5   708.6   732.0  234.6   72.2  4440.0       5.8   256.9    30.6  1358.6
Tuaes                                  78.4    20.0    24A      6.1    0.0   128.9       5.0     6.4
Forign Exchange                      1939.8   531.2   568.0   164.8   72.2  3276.0       5.3   173.7
May 20, 1992
I')
0. :
N



ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Project's Implementation Schedule
ACTIVI1Y                       lnl     2          I H0A3
DKSCRIPTION                     ANAHJIJAISIOINODJ rNA               AsioNO[JIFIKAKNJIJIASIDNHDlJlrNANJJiAiSIDIDIJ
UNITI 30-33MW GAS TURBINE POWER PLANT-HUNTS BAY
FIASILITY STUDY
ROM - TEINDER
MCROUE GAS TURBINE
COiSTRuCTIO
DESI11/11OBILIZATION                     r -
CIVIL VARKS
F        =/DEL. GAS T'INE
INSTALL t STORT-UP                                  |.
UNIT2 30-33MW GAS TURBINE POWER PLANT-HUNTS BAY
LIEPER NE                                                                             C=
CASR TEINE
ESNfBLI AT
CL 1035
fAIDEL, GAS TURBINE
INSTALL t STIAT-UP        ___
3x2OMW LOW SPEED DIESEL POWER PROJECT - ROCKFOR
PRE-EASIaILITY s511Y
WRP N ENT
SELECT PROPONENT
FINANCIAL CLOSURE
CONSIRUCIOIN - UNIT No. I
CONSTRUCTION - UNIT No. 2
7OJISTRUCTION - UNIT Yo 3                                           __                    _
TRANSDI5SION SY5TEM/IN RCONNECTION
TR1191OIISI FOR HUNSBAY
PREPMRE TENDiER       _
PR~ IIOCU-IEN-T       _         r
CONISTRUCTION
TRRASIISSION FIR RKORT                      _
FREW  Tf.DS      --.  
PROCUREIDNTX
CONSTRUCToll
I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Xl, h n  nis 2     . O,  - >WS43nor kildly        JAMAICA POWER SUPPLT COMPn          "'
0/P   11=18, IqftIs,
Prjt finis 31 *"                                 HUNTSBAY/ROCKFORT/INIERCON. PROJECTS
HILESTONE SCHEDULE
ic I Pr.".vra 5Zsteas, Inc



- 58 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 8
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECIR DERE-GULATION AND ERIVATIZATON PROJECT
Environmental Assessment - Summary
I. Introduction
1.    The proposed Project consists of:
(a)   The installation of about 120 MW of power generation capacity, consisting
of a 60 MW low speed diesel plant and a 60 MW combustion turbine plant.
The diesel plant would be developed on a build-own-operate basis by
private sector developers. The first 30 MW unit for the combustion turbine
plant would be constructed, and owned by Jamaica Public Service
Company (JPSCo.), but operated by private operators, while the second 30
MW unit of the combustion turbine plant would be constructed, owned and
operated by private developers;
(b)   The installation of required interconnection and transmission facilities; and
(c)   Consulting services to: (i) assist in the management of a Fund which would
provide long term financing for private investments in the power sector; (ii)
prepare the 60 MW diesel plant and the 60 MW combustion turbine plant;
(iii) assist the Government of Jamaica in the solicitation, evaluation,
appraisal, negotiation and supervision of the diesel project; (iv) develop a
contractual framework for the private sector build-own-operate project and a
regulatory framework for the operation of the power sector; and (v)
formulate a privatization strategy and program for JPSCo. and Petrojamn.
2.    Feasibility studies and preliminary design have been prepared by JPSCo's
consultant's financed through the Japanese Grant Facility, for the proposed diesel and
combustion turbine plants. The responsibility for implementation of the diesel plant and the
second unit of the combustion turbine plant, including technical design and feasibility,
environmental acceptability and financing arrangements would be solely that of the
developer selected to implement these projects. JPSCo. would be responsible for
implementing the first combustion turbine unit. The environmental assessments of both
proposed plants, based on the likely environmental impacts of the two plants, were
prepared by JPSCo's consultants KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences, Inc. of the
U.S., who were also financed through the Japanese Grant Facility. Some of the impacts
from the diesel plant could not be comprehensively evaluated until the private developer
specifies the equipment that is to be used in the plant following the selection of the
developer expected in August, 1992, although minimal functional specifications, detailed
by JPSCo. and communicated to the potential developers, will have to be met by the private
developer.
II. Rockfort 60 MW Low Speed Diesel Power Plant
A. Current Status
3.    The Rockfort site was selected from a short list of four potential sites based on
engineering, environmental, and economic criteria. An environmental screening was
undertaken in July, 1991 which evaluated the suitability for the siting a power plant of 60



- 59 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 8
MW based on expected environmental impacts of four sites: Hunts Bay and Rockfort,
which are both located in Kingston, Old Harbour, which is approximately 60 kilometers
west of Kingston, and Bogue which is located near Montego Bay on the north coast of the
island. The screening study ranked Rockfort second out of the four sites behind Hunts
Bay, which was selected for the 60 MW combustion turbine plant to be financed under the
proposed Project (see para 21 below). JPSCo. currently operates the Rockfort Power
Barge near the site, which consists of a 40 MW low speed diesel plant which has been
operating since 1984. The site of the existing barge facility was constructed by filling in
the bay to accommodate the barge. Two 69-kV transmission lines serve the existing diesel
barge plant and run from the plant to the Greenwich Road substation (4.8 miles) and the
Cane River substation (5.1 miles). These substations feed commercial and industrial
installations nearby such as the flour mill and petroleum related installations owned by
Shell and Texaco. The lines serving the existing barge plant are, however, overloaded. In
order to address this overloading and to accommodate the additional generating capacity
from the proposed 60 MW diesel plant, two additional lines will be constructed by JPSCo.
one to the existing Hunts Bay station (6.5 miles) and one to West Kings House substation
(9.6 miles). In addition, the existing transmission feeder from Rockfort to the Cane River
substation will be upgraded.
B. ibo1ect Description
4.    The project consists of a fuel oil fired low speed diesel generating plant totalling 60
MW which would be capable of continuous base load operation. The private developer of
the plant would be free to select any unit configuration which totals 60 MW of capacity.
The plant would be fueled with No. 6 fuel oil. The fuel supply for the plant, including the
transportation of fuel to the plant, would be the responsibility of the private developer.
Currently, fuel is supplied to the existing diesel barge unit at Rockfort by truck from the
Petrojam refinery located in Kingston. Fuel for the proposed plant would most likely be
supplied in the same manner, although the feasibility of alternative fuel supply
arrangements, such as pipeline and unloading from a jetty in Kingston Harbor, are being
investigated. The diesel engine cooling water system would be supplied cooling water via
an intake pipe from Kingston Harbor.
C. The Site
5.    The site for the proposed 60 MW plant comprises the area northwest of the existing
facility where the aggregate mixing facility currently exists. The site is located on the
northeastern side of Kingston Harbour on the south side of Windward Road. The area is
characterized as light to heavy industry, with residential areas north of Windward Road.
Vacant lots border the site to the north and east, an aggregate mixing facility occupies an
area to the northwest, and unofficial residents (squatters) have established a small fishing
village to the west. A 20-foot wide corridor is proposed from the southeast corner of plant
site southward to the waterfront to provide access for the cooling water intake and
discharge pipes.
D. 1,ts and Mitigation
6.    The most significant impacts resulting from the proposed facility are to air quality
resulting from NOx and SO2 emissions and impacts from transportation of the fuel to the
site.



- 60 -
Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 8
AirQuali
7.    An impact analysis of the project indicated that the proposed project, without
considering the impacts of the existing facility, does not exceed "World Bank Guidelines for
NOx, S02, or particulate matter. However the combined impacts of the proposed and
existing facilities exceed World Bank guidelines for S02 on an annual and 24-hour basis
and NOx on an annual basis. Nevertheless, the S02 standards will be achieved through the
use of lower sulfur fuels (2.2%). Reduction of NOx emissions will be achieved through
the engine modifications recommended in the EA. Emissions of C02, a greenhouse gas,
will also occur. While C02 is always emitted as a byproduct of the combustion of fossil
fuel, the increase from the 60 MW diesel plants contributes only slightly to Jamaica's
overall C02 emissions, and the island's abundant vegetation will reduce overall C02
impacts. Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from fuel handling and storage will
be minimal and well under levels that would cause concern for public health and welfare.
Noise Itngpacts,
8.    While the project minimally exceeds Ldn standards for noise, the increase to noise
caused by the proposed 60 MW diesel plant is considered insignificant in light of the
proposed superhighway. Nevertheless, a retainer wall will be built similar to that at the
existing facility. The wall will have positive effects on noise contributions from the
proposed facility. In addition, noise levels will be used as; a criteria for equipment
selection.
I    Water Resources.
9.   in general, impacts to water and land resources are minimal and can be reduced by
applying appropriate mitigation measures as part of project design, construction, and
operation. The potential impacts are as follows:
(a)   Temporary and localized impacts will occur in turbidity and suspended solid
loading in Kings.on Harbour near the site during construction. The
potential also exists for contamination from stormwater runoff that may
include waste oil and other undetermined contaminants already present at the
site. Corn zamination from stormwater runoff will be mitigated through
hydraulic segregation of fuel oil and lubricant transfer points to decrease
impacts to surface water bodies (i.e., lined and elevated fuel transfer and
handling areas). In addition stormwater runoff from building roofs,
parking areas, and other impervious surfaces will be routed away from
contact areas of potential contamination (i.e., stormwater pond). These
impacts will be mitigated by treating liquids collected in a centralized sump
consisting of an oil-water separation system and proper disposal of
recovered oil.
(b)   The potential exists for hydrocarbon contamination to water resources,
particularly to Kingston Harbour, as a result of stormwater runoff being
contaminated in the post-construction phase at the fuel transfer and storage
sites.
(c)   Thermal discharge impacts to water quality, based on the most recent
discharge pipe configuration--including dissolved oxygen, temperature
increase, and chlorinadon-will not be significant. Also, based on the intake
pipe configuration, the possibility of entrainment of the discharge from the
exisdng barge unit and/or recirculation of the proposed facility's thermal



- 61 -
Annex 4.4
Page 4 of 8
discharge is unlikely. There are no expected impacts to potable water supply
wells or other wells located in the Rockfort area, and no hazardous waste
are expected to be generated by the proposed project.
(d)   The potential exists for contamination from past land uses at or near the site,
from the abandoned gasoline station near the site, the former fuel tank farm
at the site, spillage from tanker truck deliveries on route to the existing barge
unit, or operations related to the aggregate mixing facility. In order to
address these issues, an audit of the proposed site would be undertaken by a
qualified contractor and site remidiation would be conducted if necessary,
before construction on the new diesel plant is initiated.
Ecology
10.   The removal of vegetation and wildlife habitat from the site is not considered to be
of major ecological consequence. The site has been previously disturbed and is populated
by ruderal opportunistic species. Therefore, impacts to terrestrial ecology are not
significant. The effects of the thermal plume on the benthic infaunal communities would be
negligible given their present depauperate condition. Highly localized impacts will occur
from the use of chlorine for anti-fouling protection of the cooling water piping. However,
biological impacts are expected to be insignificant given the low diversity and numbers of
organisms in the area and the ability of fish to avoid the offending chlorine plume. While
entrainment/impingement of aquatic organisms, both vegetation and fishes, will occur to
some degree with the proposed intake structure, the best evidence concerning impingement
potential is presumed to be the operating experience of the existing barge unit. Fish and
vegetation entrainment/impingement has never been an operational (run or shutdown) factor
at that unit. The risks for adverse aquatic impacts related to potential oil spills and site
runoff will be minimized by developing an oil spill prevention plan and implementing basic
mitigation measures to reduce the degree of runoff during fuel transfer and storage. No
endangered, protected, or otherwise biologically significant species were identified during
the site surveys.
Socioeconoics dand  Use
11.  The project does not require displacement of populations and has no significant
impact on indigenous populations. There are no cultural or historical resources at the site.
Temporary land use impacts include increases in temporary residents and street vendors
during construction and squatters who may be attracted to the project area. Once in
operation, the land use impacts to the area are anticipated to be minimal and cons: ;tent with
the industrial character of the Windward Road area near the site. The proposed project is
not anticipated to have any impact on historical or archaeological resources due to the
disturbed nature of the site.
12.   The residents of the unofficial fishing village west of the site will be impacted
during construction of the proposed facility; temporary interruptions to the immediate
access road are anticipated, and long-term accommodations for access will be necessary.
The economic patterns of the Kingston area are anticipated to be positively impacted by the
increased demand for goods and services by the construction workers and permanent plant
employees. These positive impacts also include expenditure of funds for construction
related supplies and services as well as a minimal increase in labor related to plant operation
and maintenance. The impacts on transportation related to personnel and others accessing
the project are expected to be localized and temporary during construction and minimal
during operation.



- 62 -
Annes 4.4
Page 5 of 8
Natural Hmazad
13.   There is significant risk from natural hazards since Kingston has experienced flood
surges as the result of hurricanes and other tropical storms. Therefore, mitigation for
natural hazards will include design criteria for construction to withstand a 100-year
hurricane event and raising of floor elevations. Also, the potential for a damaging
earthquake in the Rockfort area is a concern; therefore, before construction a series of soil
borings will be conducted to analyze load bearing capacity, compaction, and susceptibility
of the site to liquefaction. In addition, structures will be designed to withstand a large
magnitude earthquake and a 100-year hurricane event.
Fuel Transport and Handling
14.   The private owner and operator of the proposed 60 MW plant, regardless of the fuel
oil transport mode adop.d, would be responsible for meeting environmental and
occupational health and safety guidelines as regards fuel oil transport and handling. If the
fuel is transported by truck from Petrojam, during the plant's operation, the proposed
facility will require the daily transport and delivery of approximately 75,000 gallons of
fuel, resulting in approximately 12 round trips or 24 separate truck trips during a twelve
hour work day (one truck every 30 minutes). These truck trips are compounded by the fuel
requirements of the existing barge unit at the adjacent site which requires 8 to 9 tanker truck
deliveries each weekday. Considering the most likely route of delivery (the most direct
route is from the Petrojam refinery on the west side of Kingston to the proposed site), the
following potential impacts may occur (a) increased potential automobile and pedestrian
accidents involving trucks; (b) increased potential for small leaks or spills for tanker trucks
in transit; (c) increased potential for a major fuel spill within the urban area; (d) increased
potential for fuel spillage during loading and unloading processes; and (e) increased noise,
caused by truck travel in the urban area. IDB currently is financing a study to consider
alternative measures for fuel transport. If trur:k transfer is considered the most likely fuel
transport scenario after completion of the report, JPSCo. will implement mitigation
measures to reduce the impacts from truck transfer, including planning the time and route
of delivery to minimize impacts from fuel transport and designing and constructing access
roads to the facility, including turning ianes off Windward Road. If an alternative mode of
fuel delivery to the plant is chosen by the private plant owner, an environmental assessment
of the chosen mode would be undertaken.
Fuel Spill Hazard Prevenion
15.   To minimize the risk of oil spill contamination, oil spill containment equipment will
be available at the site. In addition, JPSCo. staff, in coordination with the Office of
Disaster Preparedness will develop of an oil and hazardous material spill contingency plan.
Secondary containment berms will also be located around fuel oil and lubricant storage
tanks capable of holding 150 percent of the storage tank volumes.
m. Hunts Bay 60 MW Combustion Turbine PQwer Plant
A. Current Status
16. The existing Hunts Bay Station is JPSCo's oldest station and has the second largest
generating capacity (183 MW) in JPSCo.'s system. The station has four operational steam



- 63 -
Annex 4.4
Page 6 of 8
units, with a combined capacity of 116 MW, and four operational combustion turbines,
with a combined capacity of 67 MW. Other significant facilities at the site include a water
purification unit, water assay laboratory, sevei fuel storage tanks, administration
buildings, and lockers for plant personnel. Fuel for the existing generating units is
supplied from Petrojam, via pipeline covering a distance of abou. .5 mile. The
environmental screening undertaken in July, 1991 (para 3), ranked Hunts Bay as the
preferred site for a plant of the size envisaged. The proposed plant would consist of two
30 MW combustion turbine units, which will provide additional generating capabilities in
line with the least cost expansion plan for the power sector. The proposed combustion
turbines will offset the reliance on older units during peak loads and increase the overall
efficiency at which the Hunts Bay Station produces electricity. Some of the older units at
Hunts Bay are scheduled to be retired after the combustion turbines come on line, and IDB
is financing the rehabilitation of other older units at the site under its ongoing Electricity
System Rehabilitation and Improvement Project. Two steam units totalling about 20 MW
of capacity are being retired in 1995, while another steam unit of about 15 MW of capacity
would be retired in 1996.
B. prMject Description
17.   The combustion turbine plant will consist of two frame 6 units. The plant's two
units will burn No. 2 fuel oil. The fuel will be transported by truck approximately .5 mile
from the Petrojam refinery to two fuel storage tanks with an 18-day storage capacity for
fuel. The fuel will then be transported through an underground pipeline approximately 500
yards to the combustion turbine units. The proposed combustion turbines utilize air cooled
technology and therefore require no significant cooling water. A small quantity of water
will be utilized for general facility maintenance and will be supplied by the municipal water
system.
C. The Site
18.   The proposed site is located adjacent ;o Kingston Harbour in a heavily
industrialized area to the west of Kingston. The areas immediately adjacent to the site are
characterized by light to heavy industry. There are no surface water bodies or wedands
present at the site and no threatened or endangered species in the project area. Biological
diversity offshore from the proposed facility is low, due mainly to past and current
discharge practices off-site which have resulted in a continual deterioration in the overall
water quality of Kingston Harbour. The proposed site is currently owned by JPSCo,
therefore no populations will be displaced as a result of the proposed project. While the EA
did not include an environmental audit of the site for JPSCo's existing facilities, or the site
for the proposed 60 MW combination turbine, it did raise some concerns regarding the
previous activities at the sites and potential contamination. Currently, an environmental
audit of the existing site is being carried Jut under IDB financing and an audit of the site for
the proposed facilities is recommendee (para 28).
D. acbm
19.  In general, the impacts from the proposed units contribute only minimally to the
overall environmental impacts of the Hunts Bay facility. To the extent electricity generated
by the new, more efficient combustion turbines substitutes for that generated by the highly
inefficient steam units currently in operation, the proposed units would have a beneficial
impact on the environment.



- 64 -
Annex 4.4
Page 7 of 8
AirOualiq
20.   The proposed units satisfy World Bank guidelines for all air emissions, including
nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter. While the sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions of
the proposed units contribute only slightly to the impacts to air quality in the project area,
the combined impacts to air quality from the proposed and existing facilities exceed World
Bank guidelines for S02. However, guidelines for S02 will be achieved when JPSCo.
retires the older steam units as planned. JPSCo.'s current schedule for retirement of the
units wiUl result in compliance with World Bank guidelines by 1996. In the interim, S02
emission can be reduced significantly, although not below Bank guidelines, by using 2.5%
sulfur fuel oil for the steam units, which currently use 2.8% fuel oil, at a reasonable cost.
In order for the existing units to meet Bank guidelines, fuel oil with 0.5% sulfur would be
required which is considered impractical given the prohibitive cost and the fact that three of
the units wiUl be retired within four years. While C02 is always emitted as a byproduct of
the combustion of fossil fuel, the increase from the combustion turbine units contributes
only slightly to amaica's overall C02 emissions, and the island's abundant vegetation will
reduce overall C02 impacts. 1i terms of monitoring arrangements at Hunts Bay, JPSCo.
will establish an air monitoring system which includes an air monitoring tower.
Noise Enpacts
21.   Noise levels in the project area, from sources on the existing JPSCo. facility and
those off-site, already exceed those specified in World Bank guidelines for Ldn; however, a
retainer wall will be constructed around the proposed units to minimize their contribution to
noise levels. Also, retirement of some existing steam units (para 16), will lessen noise
impacts in the future and noise levels will be used as a crieteria for equipment selection.
WYazerQuality
22.   Water quantities used for the proposed gas turbines will be relatively small;
therefore no impacts to water quality from thermal discharge or chemical treatment of
cooling water is anticipated. The appropriate mitigation measures, as specified in the
environmental assessment will be undertaken to minimize the potendal for water quality
impacts from stormwater runoff. Temporary and localized impacts will occur, however, in
turbidity and suspended solid loading in Kingston Harbour near the site during
construction. The potential also exists for contamination from stormwater runoff that may
include waste oil and other undetermined contaminants already present at the site.
Contamination from stormwater runoff will be mitigated through hydraulic segregation of
fuel oil and lubricant transfer points to decrease impacts to surface water bodies (i.e., lined
and elevated fuel transfer and handling areas). In addidon stormwater runoff from building
roofs, parking areas, and other impervious surfaces will be routed away from contact areas
of potential contaminatdon (i.e., stormwater pond). These impacts will be mitigated by
treatng liquids collected in a centralized sump consisting of an oil-water separation system
and proper disposal of recovered oil. If potnetial formation of chloramines is projected,
then associated environmental impacts need to be identified and, if necessary, mitigative
measures need to be taken.
Eclg
23.   The site has been previously disturbed and is populated by ruderal opportunistic
species. Therefore, impacts to terrestrial ecology are not significant. The low biological
diversity off shore of the site also results in low impacts to aquatic organisms.



- 65 -
Anne4x 4
Page 8 of 8
Socioecononics and Land Use
24.   The project does not require displacement of populations and has no significant
impact on indigenous populations. There are no cultural or historical resources at the site.
Transportation impacts will occur only slightly during construction, and impacts to
employment and the local economy will b.- slightly positive through increased employment
and support services during construction and operation of the new units.
Natural Hazards
25.   There is significant risk from natural hazards since Kingston has experienced flood
surges as the result of hurricanes and other tropical storms. Therefore, as in the case of the
diesel unit at Rockfort, mitigation for natural hazards will include construction of a surge
pond, design criteria for construction to withstand a 100-year hurricane event,
strengthening of the shoreline, and raising of floor elevations. In additior., the risk of
structural damage caused from potential earthquakes will be minimized by designing
structures to withstand earthquakes and installing a strong motion accelograph connected to
an automatic shut-off switching system.
Fuel Spill Hazard Prevention
26.   To minimize the risk of oil spill contamination, oil spill containment equipment will
be available at the site. In addition, JPSCo. staff, in coordination with the Office of
Disaster Preparedness will develop of an oil and hazardous material spill contingency plan.
Secondary containment berms will also be located around fuel oil and lubricant storage
tanks capable of holding 150 percent of the storage tank volumes.
Trnsissio Fas.ite
27.   IDB has conducted an environmental assessment of the additional required
transmission facilities and environmental concerns related to the system are currently being
addressed. The low capacity and short distances required for transmission of the electricity
generated from the proposed units minimizes the potential for impacts during construction
and operation of the system.
Mitigation at the Existing Hunts Bay Facility and Proposed Site
28.   Given the current condition of the existing site and facilities at Hunts Bay and
environmental concerns identified in the environmental assessment regarding the proposed
site for the proposed 60 MW combustion turbine plant (para 18), a Phase I and Phase II
environmental audit is being conducted for the existing facility and the proposed site for the
combustion turbine plant under IDB's rehabilitation project. This audit will identify
mitigation measures and associated costs with reducing air and water quality impacts in the
project area and clean up of contamination at the Hunts Bay site (including the site of the
existing facilities and the site for the proposed facility). The audit will include soil
sampling to determine likely contaminants present in the soil from previous activities to
determine the appropriate mitigation measures required to minimize contamination from
stormwater runoff. The audit will also examine basic operating procedures at the older
units and recommend measures to reduce occupational health risks to plant operators.
Based on this audit, a detailed and comprehensive mitigation plan would be developed to
mitigate the environmental impacts of the existing Hints Bay facility and clean up of the
Hunts Bay site. Under the proposed Project, the Government would be required to agree
to a detailed and monitorable mitigation plan and its timetable and implementation.



_ 66 -
Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION AND PRIATIZATION PROJECT
Selection of Subproject Developers
1.    The selection of private sector developers would be carried out to encourage efficient
operation of the power plants. In order to ensure transparency, GOJ has decided that the selection
of private sponsors for subprojects would be carried out through an open and competitive process.
Selection of developers would be on the basis of electricity price. As the selection based on price
of electricity involves operational and financial issues not usually faced in procurement of goods
and therefore requires considerable effort from the developers as well as the Government prior to
selection, it was decided to follow a two stage process involving prequalification and selection
from the prequalified bidders. Although the selection of developers using competitive solicitation
is common in developed countries, particularly in the U.S., it has not been carried out under Baik
guidelines. The process is, therefore, being carried out for the 60 MW diesel subproject as a test
case.
2.    Etualification: This involves the solicitation of interested private developers to construct,
own and operate the subproject. Solicitation was through an announcement published in the
inernational and local Jamaican press and also distributed to local embassies of member countries
of the Bank. Interested developers submitted prequalification statements based on a
prequalification document which set out the information required from the developers and the
evaluation criteria which is based on the developers': (i) ability to raise equity and implement the
project; (ii) the developers' financial condition, capacity to borrow and experience in raising equity,
(iii) technical qualifications, including key personnel and experience with similar technology; and
(iv) project development experience, which includes development of projects of a similar nature
and experience with private sector projects in developing countries. In their response, developers
outlined their experience and qualifications as they relate to developing the specified subproject.
The prequalification statements wv,- evaluated using a point system based on the criteria set out,
and ranked to anive at a short lisL
3.    Selectin: The prequalified developers are required to respond to a Request for Proposals
(RFP) (bidding documents). The list of prequalified developers was also published in the
international press to ensure that qualifid manufacturers are aware of the subproject. The RFP is
structured under the following headings:
1.   Invitation to Prequalified Applicants
2.   Information for Applicants
3.   Instruction to Applicants
4.    Security Package and Financing Structure
5.    Applicants' Proposal and Supporting Data
6.    Mandatoiy Performance Requirements & Drawings
It also contains drafts of the Implementation Agreement, Power Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply
Agreement, Prefeasibility Study, Environmental Assessment and data for the proposed site. The
RFP clearly defines the operating requirements, evaluation methodology, technical requirements,
capital structure conditions for obtaining resources from the Private Sector Energy Fund, etc. The
developers would submit their bid to develop the project based on the RFP. A pre-bid meeting of
the prequalified deveopers for the 60 MW diesel subproject wrs held to elicit their comments on
the RR. Clarifications based on the issues raised during the pre-bid meeting have been issued.
Bids for the project would be evaluated and ranked based on the tariff offered. The responsive
proposals with the lowest evaluated tariff would be selected and given an exclusive right for a



_ 67 -
Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 2
limited time to develop the project. The selected sponsor would be required to finalize the project
agreements with the Government. The second and third ranked candidates would, however, be
requested to keep their bids valid in the event the selected candidate does not fulfill an agreement
with the Government. The RFP stipulates a projected implementation schedule which the selected
sponsor would be required to adhere to and will be enforced through liquidated damages contained
in the project agreements. The RFP also contains incentives for the bidders to minimize the level
of borrowing from the Fund. A minimum level of equity financing from developers is required,
ranging from 30% of the total financing if the Fund finances 70% of the total financing
requirements of the subproject to a minimum of 20% if the Fund provides only 30% or less of the
total financing required for a subproject.
4.     Evaluation Melhodologv: The price of electricity is a function of the operating efficiency
and cost of the plant, as well as financing terms and the operating regime. The Power Purchase
and the Implementation Agreement define the operating regime. The developers, in response to the
RFP, are required to provide for each year of the concession, a Capacity Purchase Price/kW and an
Energy Purchase Price/kWh, based on prices for equipment, goods and services as of 30 days
prior to bid opening and fuel prices given in the RFP. Based on the plant capacity and annual
energy generated as specified in the bidding documents, and the bidder's Capacity Purchase Price
& Energy Purchase Price, the revenue stream is computed for each year over the life of the
concession. The revenue and generation streams are then discounted using a discount rate
specified in the bidding documents to arrive at the "average discounted price" which forms the
basis of selection. The investors are also required, in their proposal, to furnish: (i) details of the
cost of equipment; (ii) financing terms; (iii) construction schedule; (iv) financing plan; (v) terms of
financing; and (v) details of the calculation of the price of electricity. The loan proceeds will be
disbursed against construction costs. The developer is, therefore, required to provide details of the
construction cost, i.e, cost of supply, civil works and installation, and the calculation for arriving
at the Capacity Purchase Price and Energy Purchase Price. Moreover, as a condition of the
subloan from the Fund, the developer is also required to submit a construction corntract satisfactory
o the Fund.



- 68 -
Annex 4.6
JAMAC
ENERGY SECrOR DEREGLIJATIO  AND PRIVAIABO  PROQ
tmatadfDh aknzuo
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year          Disbursements       Cumuladve
and Semester              in Semester         Disbursements      Cumulative %
1993
December31, 1992              4                   4                  6.7
June 30, 1993                 6                  10                 16.7
1994
December 31, 1993             7                  17                 28.3
June30, 1994                  8                  25                 41.7
,1995
December31, 1994              8                  33                 55.0
June 30, 1995                 8                  41                 68.3
1 996
December31, 1995              8                  49                 81.7
June 30, 1996                 5                  54                 90.0
1997
December31, 1996              4                  58                 96.7
June 30, 1997                 2                  60                100.0



- 69 -
Alnex 5.1
Page 1 of 3
JAMAWA
EN3ERGY SECIO  DERE1]ULATION ANDPRVTZIO
FEk=idW dd
1.          The outdated structures of electricity tariffs in Jamaica, coupled with the
high level to which electricity prices had risen since they were increased in 1984, led to the
completion in October 1986 of a tariff study by EBASCO based on marginal cost
principles. Implementation of the recommendations of this study was made a condition of
effectiveness of Loan 2869-JM under the Fourth Power Project. The primary objective of
the study was to provide JPSCo. with a critical evaluation of the structure and level of the
base tariff, and of the fuel adjustment clause, that was being applied on a flat basis to
achieve recovery of fuel costs within specific operating efficiency standards set for the
company--a system heat rate of 13,500 BTU/kWh and a cap on system losses of 15%.
2 .         The study concluded that an overall revenue increase of about 9% (J$60m)
was needed to meet the revenue requirements under marginal cost pricing principles. As
regards the individual customer categories, this would have meant significant tariff
increases for some categories and reductions in others. Adjustments were proposed which
limited class incrases to more acceptable levels and revised rates were designed to generate
category revenues that were considered to be more equitable than those generated by the
existing rates. In addition, major changes of sructture within customer categories were also
proposed. A number of new feature were developed:
e     A foreign exchange clause was introduced to generate the cash required to
service foreign debt in line with exchange rate movements of the J$ and
US$.
*     The fuel clause was retained but with a reduction in the heat rate from
13,500 to 11,800 BTU/kWh to reflect the improved efficiency of the slow
speed diesel units.
*     The fuel cost incorporated in the base rates was increased to J$17.36 per
million BTU based on fuel costs of US$19.61 per banrel of heavy fuel oil.
3.          The recommendations were not implemented because of GOJ's concern
both over the complexity of the proposals and the high levels of the price increases
contemplated. This left JPSCo. in a position of default of a condition of effectiveness of
Loan 2869-JM under the Fourth Power Project. However, in acknowledging GOJ's
expressed preference for a simpler tariff structure than that recommended by EBASCO,
appreciating the major damage and dislocation of JPSCo.'s networks that had been caused
by Hurricane Gilbert in 1989, and the fact that the basic field work and technical data of the
1986 EBASCO study was now out of date, the Bank waived this condition of
effectiveness. The Bank also agreed with GOJ that a further tariff study would be
undertaken by JPSCo., with the assistance of consultants acceptable to the Bank, under
agreed terms of reference.



- 70 -
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
1989 Tariff Study
4.          In June 1989, JPSCo. retained RCG/Hagler Bailly to carry out this study.
The overall objectives of this new study were to update the EBASCO study and to provide
JPSCo. with new rate structures and decision-making criteria and computer-based
analytical technology to facilitate the structuring of future tariff adjustments. This would
assist JPSCo. in promoting optimal consumption patterns taking account of both economic
and social policies within the financial and operating constraints of JPSCo..
Recommendations were implemented by JPSCo. in April 1990. Overall average tariffs
were increased by about 30% or Jc 20 per kWh to achieve an average system-wide tariff
rate of about Jc 85 per kWh. Based on the assumptions applied in the study, this left
average tariffs about 12% below long run marginal cost.
1991 Tariff Adjustment Study
5.          With the deterioration in the major technical, economic and financial
variables that were applied in the 1989 RCG/Hagler Bailly tariff study which led to the
30% average tariff increases applied in April 1990, JPSCo.'s operating costs increased
substantially during 1990/91 and early 1991/92. Despite the revised tariff structures and
increased prices, and a 4% growth in electricity sales in 1990/91, the company achieved a
rate of return of only 4.3%--well below the 8% rate of return covenanted with the Bank.
Jamaican inflation substantially exceeded the 11% assumed in the RCG/Hagler Bailly study
of 1989. The steady rate of exchange between the Jamaican and US dollar, also assumed
in that study did not materialize. The Jamaican dollar depreciated continuously especially in
early 1991/92. From an analysis undertaken by JPSCo., assisted by RCG/Hagler Bailly,
in July 1991, it was found that the fuel and foreign exchange clauses introduced in the
April 1990 tariff restructuring were not responding sufficiently to recover the increased
costs involved. JPSCo.'s financial position was deteriorating and if it was not corrected a
small loss was predicted as the outturn for 1991/92. Of greater significance, however, was
the prediction of substantial losses in the years thereafter.
6.          A tariff adjustment study was immediately carried out by JPSCo., assisted
by RCG/Hagler Bailly with the objective of restoring JPSCo.'s ability to achieve its
covenanted 8% rate of return for the next three years. Recommendations of the study were
finalized in July 1991. Tariff increases were implemented by JPSCo. in December 1991
and involved a weighted average increase of about 15%. In addition, the foreign exchange
clause was supplemented with an additional clause to include an index multiplier geared to
adjust base tariffs to respond to further currency depreciation, The effect of these tariff
revisions enabled JPSCo. to improve its rate of return in 1991/92 to an estimated 7.2% but
still below its 8% covenanted return. Of concern, however, is the fact that the gap between
the average tariff level and long run marginal cost continues to widen because of continuing
currency depreciaton, inefficiencies in heat rate and high system losses. According to the
July 1991 RCG/Hagler Bailly study, average prices in 1991/92 could have been as high as
29% below long run marginal cost, applying an average exchange rate of J$12.40.
Consequently, an updated marginal cost pricing study would be undertaken to assess the
relativities of current prices to revised marginal costs.
Tar*ff Management Study
7.          Recognizing (a) the complexity of both the revised fuel and foreign
exchange clauses; (b) the need for accuracy and timeliness in achieving substantial cost
recovery by having both a higher base tariff structure, and more frequent tariff revisions;
and (c) the benefits, both to JPSCo. and its customers, of introducing greater simplicity,
stability and transparency in tariff rates and electricity bills, JPSCo., as part of its Action



- 71 -
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 3
Plan 1992/93-1996/97, has established an internal task force, assisted by consultants, JMB
and Associates of Florida, to carry out a complete review of all existing tariff formulations
and structures and develop proposals that will respond to all of these needs. This study
should make an important contribution to future tariff design and management in JPSCo.
and will also have important implications for the new management information systems
currently under development by a JPSCo. Steering Committee. Its findings and
recommendations are scheduled to be available in July 1992 and would be submitted to the
Bank for review.



JAMAICA
9ERGFY SECTOR DEREQUIADW AND PRIVATIZATION PRWECT
JAMAICA PURLIC SFRVIC- COMPAN-Y.UMTrJ
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS 1986187-1996/97
<...          Historical........................> Estimate   <- ..-------........ Projected------------------------>
iJS Li4rion)              86187   87188   88/89   89/90   s0191  91/92  9293   93194   94/95   95/96   96197
Opwating revenues          972    908    846   1,045   1,620   2,989   5,589   6,848   7,790   8,982  10,329
Energy charge              437    393      382     445   1,139   2,323   4,260   5.120   5,725   6,441   7,251
Fuelcdause                 533    513      463     599    481      664   1,327   1,727   2,064   2,539   3,076
Other                       2        2       1       1       0       2       2       2       2        2       2
Operating expense.         839    779    831   1,032   1,485   2,558   4,514   5,495   6,320   7,461   8,779
Operation and maintenance  201     185     191     258     406     708   1,023   1,200   1,290   1,413   1,554
Fuel                       440    428      458     550    779   1,261   2,378   2,950   3,310   3,907   4,617
Purchased power              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      276     575     904
Taxes (other than income)    1       1       0       0       0       2       2       2       2        2       2
Depreciation               197     166     182     224    299      588   1,111   1,343   1,442   1,564   1,702
lopwatna Income             133    129       16      13    135    430   1,075   1,353   1,471   1,521   1,550
Intrert charged to ops.     72      50       39      68      87    225      312     144   (1371   (463)  (799)                         I
Interest on debt           79      52      41       68      88     279     376     420     438     450     441
Interest during construction  (9)   (3)     (4)     (2)     (5)    (24)    (86)   (180)   (171)   (222)   (241)
InterestandSOtherlncome     0       0        0       0       0     (35)      0    (103)   (410)   (697)  (1,006)
Other Debt Charges           2       1       1        1       4       5      21       6       6       6       6
Incometax                  19      26      18       14      19      33     189     279    457      607    718
Net Income                  41       52     (41)    (69)    29      172     573    930   1,151   1,377   1,631
Lesodivdends                  0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0
Trans. of lncremtal dep'n    55      47      59      60      86       0       0        0       0       0       0
Rotalned Eamings bit        185    281      380     398    389      504     676   1,249   2,179   3,330   4,706
|Retained Eaminis cif       281    380      398     389    504    676   1,249   2,179   3,330   4,706   6,337
1/ EJectrcity sales (GWh)  1542    1371    1247    1569    1632    1697    1646    1694    1747    1812    1886
(% growth)     34.4%   19.5%    8.7%   36.8%   42.2%   47.9%   43.5%   47.7%   52.3%   57.9%   64.4%
Average Sales Price (Jc/kWh)    63.0    66.2    67.9    66.6    99.3   176.1   339.5   404.2   445.9   495.8   547.7
Unit Base Tdriff (JctkWh)  28.3    28.7    30.7    28.4    69.8   136.9   258.8   302.1   327.7   355.6   384.5
UnitFuelClause(JckWh)     34.6    37.4    37.2    38.2    29.5    39.1    80.6   101.9   118.1   140.1   163.1
Unit Other (JchWh)         0.1    0.1      0.1     0.0     0.0     0.1    0.1       0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Exchange Rate JS/US$       5.5     5.5     5.5      6.3     7.9    14.9    26.5    29.6    30.3    31.6    33.1
System Heat Rate (BtulKwh)   11668   11946   12168   13175   13243   13315   13083   13083   13000   13000   13000
Losses Indg Co Use (YO)  18.90%  19.50%  20.10%  19.29%  19.16%  19.20%  19.00%  19.00%  19.00%  19.00%  19.00%
Fuel Cost (Weighted Ave - $U    14.4    19.3    17.8    20.8    18.1    20.0    22.3    24.1    27.7    32.0    36.2



JAMA
ENERGY     i A=2R FEMMN ANDTAT PR&     RJCT
JAMAICA PURLIC SERVICE COMPANY LlMiTFD
ACUL& FOREST SOURCE & APPLICATIONu, OF FUNDS
<     -------- Historical -------------------------> Estimate  <--- -------- Projected ------------------------>
ijg MilliOnl868    87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93194   94/95   95196   96197
TOTALSOURCES                266    268    140      147    309   1,199   1,916   2,879   2,773   2,579   2.978
Grow fund generatIon       332    295    198    238    435   1,218   2,192   2,726   2,942   3,115   3,282
Income beore interest     133    129       16      13    135    430   1,075   1,353   1,471   1.521   1,550
Deprecation               197    166    182    224    299    588   1,111   1,343   1,442   1,564   1,702
Other                       2       1       1       1       1       0       7      30      30      30      30
Equity ervie                19      27      18      14      19      34    190    279    457    607    718
Incom tax                  19      26      18      14      19      33     189    279    457       607     718
DIkiends                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Det  rvice                 174    121      120    127    175    720    769    556    268    (65)   (412)
Repayment                 102      71      81      59      88    495    457    412    405         398     387
Interest on debt           79      52      41      68      88    279    376    420    438    450    441                    w
Interest charged to constructio    (9)    (3)    (4)  (2)    (5)   (24)    (86)   (180)   (171)   (222)   (241)
Interest  Other Income      0       0       0       0       0     (35)      0    (103)   (410)   (697) (1,006)
Other Dsbt Charges           2       1       1       1      4       5      21       6       6       6       6
Net itemal funding         139    148       60      97    241    465   1,234   1,891   2,218   2,572   2,976
Increase Ire  ustomer Deposfts &  8  10     10      12      19       3       3       3       3       3       3
Equlty contributons          4      33       4       2     (13)      0       0       0       0       0       0
Proceeds frorn Property Ins. Claim          20       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Non-borrowed funding       150    191       94    110    247    467   1,237   1,893   2,220   2,575   2,978
Borrowings                 11E      76      46      37      63    732    680    985    552          4       0
TOTALAPPLICAllONS          266    268    140    147    309   1,199   1.916   2,879   2,773   2,579   2 978
Investments                126    145    194    129    277    702   1,292   2,474   1,575   1,072   1,287
Incl(dec) In working cap.  139    123    (54)    18         33    496    625    405   1,197   1,506   1,691



AAMAIrA
ENERGY IElD  EELA  NADPMTZTC PROJECT
,1AUMAIrAU3 SERVCrE COMPANY LtAffED
A CTLUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
<-----        Hstodcal                   Esd----------- - Estimate  ----------------- Proected ------
ISJ URkfnt 86187                      87/88   88/89    89/90    9Dl91    2J1/2    92/93    93194   94195   95/1 6   96/97
ITOTALASSETS              2.354   2,590   2.746    3.406    4,213   10,111   18.472   22,140  24,170  26,248  28,675
Rxed assets               2,024   2,172   2,261    2,833    3,609    8,850   16,242   19,395  19,989  20.344  20,894
Plaflneservke            4,178   4,581   5,067    6,825    9,099   21,939   32,813   38,634  41,099  44,153  47,611
Accumulted dredaion     (2,241) (2,531) (2.928)  (4,084)  (5,603)  (13,439) (17,298)  (20,665) (22.595) (25,129) (28,024)
NetplantInsesvlc        1,938   2,050   2,139    2,741    3.495    8.500   15,515   17.969  18,504  19,024  19.587
WrkIlnprogress             87      122     122       92      114      349      726    1,425   1,485   1,320   1,307
Rnauca Investments           2        2       2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2       2
Curennt *suet*             319    408    377         408      550    1,208    2,177    2,692   4,128   5,851   7,729
Cashandbaifs                96     187      98      105       60      173        0       514   2,049   3.486   5,029
AccounsRecelvaMe           115     114     158      195      294      729    1,C^ 3    1.644   1,564   1,793   2.061
UriUedRev                   27      37      61       45       73      182      411      411      391     448     515
Inventodes                 63      70      60        63      123      123      123      123     123     123      123
Other curert assts         17       0       0         0        0        0        0        0       0       0        0
Dferred Expndutre 10                8     107      164       51       51       51       51      51      51       51
EQUYMANDUABILMiES         2,354   2,590   2,746    3.406    4,213   10,111   18,472   22,140  24,170  26,248  28,675
Equity                    1,215   1,381   1,581    2,116    2,557    6,161   13,256   15,734  17,248  19,258  21,622
Sharecapbii&Premium       141      168     168      168      232      432      432      461     491     521     551
Caplta leen               793      833   1,015    1,558    1,820    5.054   11.575   13,093  13.427  14,031  14,734
Rstaned eandngs           281    380       398      389      504      676    1,249    2,179   3,330   4,706   6,337
Spet  doblgaUoo             56      72      8S       99       105      111      113      116     118    121      123
Eqult advances              9       15      18       20        6       10       10       10      10      10       10
CusWnMeadvances             8       10      15       20       30       30       30       30      30      30      30
Cusmoer depos              39      47      52        59       68       71       73       76      78      81      83
Long-term debt             795    882    802        901    1,151    3,404    4,320    5,397   5,672   5,521   5,395
Curren lIaiItes            288    255      277      290      400       435      783      893   1,132   1,348   1,535
Short-term poron of debt   68      59      67       76      124                                                                  1
D.mnd lruos and wrdatts     0       0       0         0        0        0       96        0       0       0       0
Acounts payaMs            124     130     149       141      243      335      415      523     582     644    715
lnerst Payame              97      57      55       61       27        66       82       91      93      97     102
Other cunent lablOWes       0       8       6       11        7       33       189      279     457     607    718
Rate of Retum (Wold Bank) -    1.1%    6.4%    0.7%  0.5%   4.3%     7.2%     8.9%     8.1%    8.1%    8.1%    8.0%
Debt Servic Coverage       1.7     2.2     1.5      1.8      2.4       1.3     2.4       3.0     3.4     3.7     4.3
Total DeW Equity - %    71.0%   68.1%   55.0%    46.2%    49.9%    55.2%    33.3%    34.3%   32.9%   28.7%   25.0%
Curreir Rado               1.1     1.6     1.7      2.0      1.5      2.9      2.8       3.1     3.7     4.4    5.1



Annex 5.5
J^AMAICA
E YSECTOR DIEFULATKON AND PRbTZAlO PROJECT
JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY LIMflED
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1 992/197 - SOURCES OF FINANCE
Not USS investment
Total
USSm                92193    9324      94/95    95/96   9f97       92/97
IDB 605/OC            12.3      11.8     10.6      0.1      0.0      34.8
DB New                 0.0      2.1       5.5      0.0      0.0       7.6
WB 2869                3.5       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       3.7
WB New                 0.0      18.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      18.0
Mech/Fin-Ansaldo      10.4      0.5       0.5      0.0      0.0      11.5
JpOc                   8.6       8.7     11.1     14.9     18.1      61.4
Us$ Total             34.8     41.2     27.8      15.0     18.1     136.91
IJrn Eaulvalent        922     1220      841      475       599      405-6
Plus:
Loca J$ Expenditure    284     1051      515      375       447      2673
J$IDBNow                         23       48                           71
Interest During
Construction and
Admin. Overhoads J$     86      180      171      222       241       900
IJ$ Total Value       1292     2474     1575      1072     1287      77011
iUSS Aulvalent          49       84        52       34       39      257.11



- 76 -
Annex 5.6
JAMAICA
,ENE,RGY SECTOR DEREGULATION ,AND PRFVATIZATION PROJIECT
JAMAICA PUBUC SERVICE COMPANY LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1992/93 - 1996/97
JgS1 Mdillion)
92/93    93/94    94/95    Q5/96    96/97
C.ASH SOURCES
Operating revenues                       4,438.5  6,836.9  7,879.2  8,682.9  9,980.0
Customer Deposits                           2.5       2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
Other Operating Revenues                     3.9     31.2     31.2     31.2     31.2
Non-Operating Income                        0.0    102.7    409.9    697.2  1,005.8
Proceeds from Ins. Claims                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
US$ Loan Drawdown                          679.6    985.4    552.4      4.1      0.u
J$ Loan Drawdown                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
ITOTALCASH SOURCES:                        5,129.'S  7,958.7  8,875.2  9,417.9 11,019.5
CASH DlSBURSUlENI
Fuel                                     2,297.9  2,920.3  3,296.7  3,883.9  4,590.8
Purchased power                             0.0       0.0    273.0    572.1    900.3
Operating & maintenance                  1,042.5  1,210.2  1,287.9  1,399.2  1,539.8
Long-term debt - interest                 364.6    411.4    436.1    446.0    436.4
* principal                        457.0    412.2    404.5    3Q8.2    387.3
US$CapitalExpenditure                      921.6  1,219.5    840.9    474.9    599.1
J$ Captal Expenditure                      258.4    977.8    512.5    341.7    407.0
Restoration Work                            0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Unamortised debt discount and expense       2.0       2.0      2.5      2.5      2.5
Income Taxes                                33.4    189.5    279.1    456.5    607.0
Taxes other than Inoome Taxes                1.9      2.0      2.2      2.3      2.5
Interest on Customer Deposits               3.4      3.8       3.8      3.8      3.8
Dividends payable                           0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2
CASH DISBURSEMENTS:                       Z. ,2.9  7,349.0  7,339.3  7,981.3  9,476.7
ICASH FLOWBEFOREOVERDRAFIlEREST            (253.4)   609.7  1,535.9  1,436.6  1,542.8
Overdraft Interest                         (16.0)     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
OPEiNlN CASH BALANCE                       173.2    (96.2)   513.5  2,049.4  3,486.0
ICLOSING CASH BALANCE                       (96.2)   513.5  2,049.4  3,486.0  5,028.6



JAMACA
ENERGYSzZ     LTtAND PFVATIATION PFKUECr
FINANCIAL INDICATORS 10 18B7 -199197
Sf 7Bt   )>R    991SA    8g/90    90/91    91/92    9212_    93194   94/95   95/96   96/97
[REfLhlNON34VESTMENT    I
PRAU ofROn                  1.1%    6.4%     0.7%      0.5%     4.3%      7.2%     8.9%      8.1%    8.1%     8.1%     8.0%
COPer* atMbu9              13.7%   14.2%     1.8%     1.2%      8.3%    14.4%     19.2%     19.8%   18.9%    16.9%    15.0%
PkrlTuwsrr                         11.4%    10.1%    10.7%     13.0%    12.5%     11.6%    10.2%   10.7%    12.0%    13.4%
Return on Eaftf                      4.0%    -2.8%     -3.7%     1.3%     4.0%      5.9%      6.4%    7.0%     7.5%    8.0%
LEVERAGE                I  tO0%1
Owner CaptiSindon           61.5%   62.2%   67.5%     71.1%     69.8%    64.8%    75.6%      74.6%   75.4%    77.8%   80.1%
bxihdSdm"$                  38.5%   37.8%   32.5%     26.9%     30.2%    35.2%     24.4%     25.4%   24.6%    22.2%    19.9%
blON"R Cconrafi (MM@s)        1.8      2.6     0.4       0.2      1.6       1.9      3.4       9.4   .10.8    -3.3    -1.9
DebStuvl CCorngs, o(lnes)     1.8      2.2     1.5       1.8      2.4       1.6      2.6       4.4     9.3   -38.7    -6.2
Aveage Itrest                9.9%    5.9%    5.1%      7.5%      7.6%     8.2%      8.7%      7.8%    7.7%     8.2%    8.2%
lCurif mawf   m)              13.5    156.0    12.0     i 1.8     15.t     27.6
WORKIGCAPIAL            I
Coleoon PewId (days)         43.1    46.0    68.1       68.1     66.2      89.1    107.3      87.6    73.3    72.9    72.8
lmenrton as % of Pui         1.5%    1.5%    1.2%      0.9%      1.4%     0.6%      C 4%      0.3%    0.3%    0.3%     0.3%
PaymentPrdo dFud (das)      102.7   111.1   118.8      93.7    113.9       97.0     63.7      64.7    64.2    60.2    56.5
paynt Peiod - OUur (day)    113.5   135.3   145.9    106.8    125.7        94.2     70.9      75.0    70.6    66.2    62.7
Curren Redo (fmes)            1.1      1.6     1.7       2.0      1.5       2.9      2.8       3.1     3.7      4.4      5.1
CPEROT  REVENUE          I  100%1
Opern m andM*1nwm           20.7%b  20.4%   22.6%     24.7%     25.1%    23.7%     18.3%     '7.5%    16.6%    15.7%    15.0%
Fud                         45.3%   47.1%   54.1%     52.6%     48.1%    42.2%    42.6%     43.1%   46.0%   49.9%    53.4%
Taxe Oh   mn inhme          0.1%    0.1%    0.0%      0.0%      0.0%     0.1%      0.0%      0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%
Deprclnod                   20.3%    18.3%   21.5%    21.4%     18.5%    19.7%     19.9%    19.6%    18.5%    17.4%    16.5%
kernshf Icome               13.7%   14.2%     1.8%     1.2%      8.3%    14.4%    19.2%      19.8%   18.9%   16.9%    15.0%
FUlJMX                  I  100%I
Net etrna  Fung             52.1%   65.3%   50.1%     65.9%     77.9%    38.8%     64.4%    6S.7%   80.0%   99.7%   99.9%
icusin  Advanes              3.0%    37%    8.3%       8.0%      6.2%     0.2%      0.1%      0.1%    0.1%    0.1%     0.1%
Eqity Conultbons             1.3%   12.4%    3.1%      1.0%     .4.3%     0.0%      0.0%      0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     0.0%
ISanrons                    43.5%   28.5%   38.5%     25.1%     20.2%    61.0%     36.5%    34.2%    19.9%    0.2%     0.0%
ASSETrWSmON                 100%
Fied Asses                  86.0%   83.9%   82.3%     83.2%     85.7%    87.5%     87.9%    87.6%   82.7%    77.5%    72.9
Fiaia Inve _t                0.1%    0.1%     0.1%     0.1%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%
Cuwrent Assets              13.5%   15.8%   13.7%     12.0%     13.1%    12.0%     11.8%    12.2%   17.1%   22.3%    27.0%
EUNfTY AND UABW1ES       I  100%I
Equty                       51.6%   53.3%   57.6%     62.1%     60.7%    60.9%     71.8%    71.1%    71.4%    73.4%    75.4%
Spedi Oblgaus                2.4%    2.8%    3.1%      2.9%      2.5%     1.1%      0.6%      0.5%    0.5%    0.5%     0.4%
Long-term Debt              33.8%   34.1%   29.2%     26.5%     27.3%    33.7%     23.4%    24.4%    23.5%   21.0%    18.8%
Currnt UaIlies              12.2%    9.8%o   10.1%     8.5%      9.5%     4.3%      4.2%     4.0%    4.7%     5.1%     5.4%



- 78 -
Annex 5.8
JALAAICA                            Page 1 of 2
gERGY SECTO DERWU.A,3 AND PRiVATIZATiONPROJr-CT
Jamaica Public Service Companv Limited
KWey Asumotinns Underlying Financial Proledions
(1) Prolected Demand IGWh)
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   25/96   96/97
Residentbi Bimonthly        260.0   265.5   257.6   265.1   273.4   283.5   295.1
Residential Monthly         260.0   265.5   257.6   265.1   273.4   283.5   295.1
Commercia - Small           730.1   833.9   808.8   832.6   858.4   890.1   926.6
Commercdal - Large          227.1   299.3   290.3   298.8   308.1   319.5   332.6
Other                        154.7    32.8    31.8    32.7    33.8    35.0    36.4
Total                      1631.9  1697.0  1646.0  1694.4  1746.9  1811.5  1885.8
Effective Annual Growth     4.00%   3.99%   -3.01%   2.94%   3.10%    3.70%   4.10%
(2) System Losses Rlus Comnanv Usage
,0l    91/9    929    93/94   94/95   95/9B   96/97
19.2%    19.2%    19.0%    19.0%    19.0%   19.0%   19.0%
(3) Prolected Exchange Ratga
90/Q    912    92293   93/94   94195   95/96   96/97
$Jpr$US       8.8    14.9    26.5    29.6    30.3    31.6    33.1
22.0 m-m-->  US$ Capital Expendiure
& US$ Loan Cash Flows
(4) Contribution of Station to Total L ad
90/98
STEAM- Old Harbour                          46.36%
STEAM- Hunre Bay                            26.80%
GAS TURBINES - Bogue (nevw                   2.44%
GAS TURBINES - Hunts Bay (old)               8.57%
;IYDR                                        6.08%
SLOW SPEED DIESEL - Roddout                  9.77%
100.00%
(5) Staion Most Rate Faetors IkETtJ ier GWh)
STEAM- OidHaebour                   13300   12300
STEAM- Hunra Bay                    13300   14470
GAS TURBINES - Bogue (new)          15000   16500
GAS TURBINES - Hunts Bay (okI        18000   17000
SLOWSPEED IESEL                      8900    8700
SYSTEM HEAT RATE                    13.315  13.083
FUELCLAUSEPERMITTEDHiRATE             13.5    13.5
(6) Fuel coL iLBfLM,
92/93   93/94   94/95   95/9    9617
CiudeOl                       17.2    18.7      20       22      24
Bunker C                      0.87 X Crde
Diesl                          1.3 XCrude
(7) mSTU/ImRL
Steam / Slow Speed Diel            6.28446
Go                                   5.804



- 79 -
Annex 5.8
Page 2 of 2
(8) Purchased Power                       a4/95   as/98     fi97
GWh                    130      260      390
$US/GWh                0.07    0.07     0.07
(9) Revenue Collection
Year 1         0.6      0.7      0.8
Year 2         0.4      0.3      0.2
(10) Collection of ORening A/Ce Receivable
76.65%   80.00%   76.65%
(11) Bed Debt Write Cff
92/97
0.12% of Revenues
(12) Payment of Fuel Costs
Year 1      97.5%    99.0%
Year2        2.5%     1.0%
(13) SourcIng of Flxed Asset Exanditure
Lis    70%
Jamaica    30%
(14) Transfer. to Plant (CaCRlallatlon Rate)
Year 1        60%  Current year capital expenditure
Yea 2         40% Opening work In progress
(15) Capetal Expenditure Payments
Jamaica   Yearl        93%
Year 2        2%
IS       Year         100%
(16) O&iL COst
1991             2.12              aZLa             aaiz
409         590+20%          91/2+20%           92/3+5%
+Jam Inflat      +Jam inflat
u1/92    92a93   93/4   9419 95a98              7
US$ Portion of
O&M Expenditure              73.6%    63.0%    64.3%    65.4%    6S.4%    67.3%
(17) O&M paSnnip
1/97
Year 1        92%
Yew 2          8%



_ 80 -
Annex 6.1
nstitutional Rsosibilities for SWubgjecs
Project Stagcs                              Mnistes Steering CMMMittee
Ea                 MPUI
1. Select Subproject                       X
2. Sponsor Selection
Prequalification                     X
Preparation of RFP                       X
Issue of RFP                             X
Proposal Evaluation                      X
3. Negotiation & Execution
of Security Package
Agreements
IA                                                          X
PPA                                 X
FSA                                        X
4. Subproject Financing                                   X
Plan Review
5. Procurement Rtview                                     X
6. Loan Documentation &
Negodation                                         X
7. Recommendation to
Approve Loan                                        X
8. Financial Close                                        X
9. Disbursement of Funds                                  X
10. Construction Monitoring                              X
11. Start Operations                                      X
12. Sub-Loan Repayment                                   X
13. Operation Monitoring                                 X
NOTES:  1.  JPSCo. performs functions 1 & 2 on behalf of MPUTE.
2.  Routine issues would be raised by the responsible agencies to an
Implementation Sub-Group of the Minister's Steering Committee, which
would consist of representatives from: MPUTE, MOF, BOJ, NIBJ, JPS,
AGO.
3.  Sub-Loan Agreement between NIBJ and the project company would require
the aipproval of the Ministets Steering Committee.
4.  From stage 8 to 13 NIBJ would be required to inform MPUTE.
5.  Obligations and responsibilities of agencies such as JPSCo. under the
agieements executed by the project company, as well as the approvals
required by the lending agencies, are not included in the agove list.



- 81 -Ane62
Sub Loan Anproal Process Flow Char
NNN~~~NNNN.~~NN~~\    .'~~NN'N'~~~.'~~          .              ....'N ~W'             gm.........
'NONN.AoNNa   -                                                                                                               F (A,' -
NAN                        I                 FANNwd                                  :N*LAN" "N'"' N.'N'
JPSCO.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                       EM'.'
fl~395j   NNN~.'R)mmend Sti I n AWC N'C.val.N
toNIB Board - M"C~
ROW~~~~.NNNC                              N
""  C'..  N'C.. . 'AN(NN ~   ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ Pdmwe oc
NC.N..                                         ..~~~~~~~~~0  o   ai BoN..NardNC                       .
N.N...SN.  1a..  ......  N N.NOrd Sncon.                            N '        "C     $       N
Lo"NN'''A  "NN'.u...
ANN..-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
selected Developer ~iLa~  ~     N.'N.0N':..CN.).n
IDB           JrNNA,0NW 8. NM8W ank                                                              gremen  -.
NN N    U  - .   fs   Power Lk* NNN  NIBJ NA. .N..arm~                                                           -
SC      -~en Signdv  Letro                                         on      icbn*.N..                                   balneoiton  i
VU              o   Barn*n             . N('.
N..'.N.NN..\4N.              N~~~N.      0 ' "                                        NN:.:Da  ,N N.aMA SSARDGE2CS
ddned in    pmp  NsNbCN an  O" Nw N'N r wNN.,,..



- 82 -
Annex 6.3
IAMAICA
Five Year Pjcdtion for NIBJ Private Power Unit
1992/9 1993/9 1994/9 199S/9 1996/9
3        4         5         6        7
(thousands of constant 1992 U.S. dolar)
INCOME
Fees charged to projects:
Loan application fees                              2         2         -        -         -
Loan documentation fees                           20       20          -        -         -
Project monitoring fees (1)                       37      160       192       192      192
Subtotal:                                           59       182      192       192       192
Administration fees charged to GOJ (2)             .18        78        90        90       90
Total Income:                                       77      260       282       282       282
EXPENSES
Compensation:
Unit Director                                     50        50       50        50        50
Financial Analyst                                 13        18       18        18        18
Technical Manager                                 13        18       18        18        18
Secretary                                          a   5       a                5         5
Subtotal:                                           81        91        93       93        93
Occupancy (office rental, utilities,
maintenance,supplies, telephone, etc.)               13       18        18        18       18
Motor vehicle                                        20       27        27       27        27
Foregin travel                                       15       20        20        20       20
Computer PC                                           7        9         9         9        9
Audit                                                 4        5         5         5        5
Fidelity Insurance                                    7       10        10        10        10
Consultancy costs                                               -        -         -         -
Contingency                                           7       1010                10        10
TOTAL COSTS                                       154   192   192   192   192
LESS: Funding Agencies' contribution
to first year personnel costs               (81) .              .           .        -
NET COSTS                                           73   192    192   192   192
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                              4    68    90    90    90
Notes: (1) A project monitoing fee of 0.025% per anum of the total amount commined for five yeas from financial close
(maximum USS150,0W0 per ammn). After five yeas the fee will faU to 0.125% with a maximum of USS75,000 per annum.
(2) This fee is assevd at 0.10% of the total mnt comitted to ',pply from financial close to commencement. and 0.1%
o, the balance outstanding thereafter.



- 83 -
Annex 6.4
Page 1 of 3
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECT'OR DEiREGLULATION AND PRIVATIZ-ATION PROJIECT
Operational Framework for Private Sector Subgrojet
Eligbilty Criteria fo Consideration of Private Sector Propsals
All proposals from private investors, whether solicited or unsolicited, should be consistent
with Jamaica's national priorities. In order to ensure this, the private sector proposals should
fulfill the following criteria:
(a)   Least Cost Alternative: Public and private sector investments should form an
integral part of the least cost development plan for the power subsector. This
would also ensure that public and private investments are complementary.
Therefore, private sector projects should be part of the least cost plan. The least
cost plan maximizes the benefits to the economy of projects, keeping in view their
technology, size and implementation schedules and energy requirements, and is
based on economic prices.
(b)   Use of Proven Technologies: The technologies proposed by private investors
should be proven, that is, they should have a successful track record in countries at
a similar level of technological development and support infrastructure as in
Jamaica.
(c)   Cmpetitiveness: Competitiveness would be ensured by considering proposals that
offer prices for electricity which would be less than the unit cost of generation that
JPSCo. would have incurred for the same generation, adjusted for financing
available to the private sector.
(d)   Viability: Sponsors should be creditworthy to undertake th'.- investments and
possess the capability to develop the project. To ensure commitment to
subprojects, minimum equity contributions should be required as a part of the
financial plan which would result in viable capital structure and an acceptable debt
service coverage ratio.
(e)   Limited Recourse Financing: Privat  investors and lenders should not require direct
sovereign guarantees. Institutions providing these fjnde should be prepared to
assume project specific risks. In the event of occurrence of these risk(s), the
recourse of lenders would be limited to the provisions outlined in the project's
Security Package.
Contractual Arrag=nents for Private Sector Sub=rjects
The two subprojects would be undertaken on the build-own-operate (BOO) model and is to
be financed on a limited recourse basis in order to promote private investment in Jamaica. Under
this arrangement, the investors (or their contractors) will assume full completion and operational
risks, but the lenders will look primarily to the expected cash flow of the subprojects for security.
The cash flow, in turn, is dependent upon the strength of the agreements comprising the
contractual arrangements (security package). The contractual  ingements consist of the
following agreements and other documents:



- 84 -
Page 2 of 3
1.     lementtio Agrement (IA
This agreement will be executed by the GOJ and the Project Company and will govern their
relationship for a 20 year term. Under the terms of the IA, GOJ will grant the Project
Company the exclusive right to design, build, own and operate the Project and will offer
various forms of assistance to facilitate construcdon and operation. GOJ will commit,
among other things: (a) not impede the Project Company's ability to purchase foreign
currency on the open market, transfer such foreign currency abroad and maintain foreign
currency bank accounts in Jamaica; (b) to grant applications for certain specified regulatory
approvals required for the Project; (c) to grant work permits and visas to the persons
involved in the Project; (d) to grant a 7-year income tax holiday; and (e) to guarantee
JPSCo's payment obligations to the Project Company under the Power Purchase
Agreement. In return, the Lnitial shareholders will promise to commit the majority of the
equity required to finance the Project and to hold their shares for a minimum period of time,
and the Project Company will commit to design, build, own and operate the Projected in
accordance with the Power Purchase Agreement.
2.   Poer Purchase Agrment (PA
The PPA defines the terms of the purchase and sale of power, which is the principle source
of revenue to the Project Company. This agreement will be signed by JPSCo and the
Projected Company for a term of 20 years, and may be renewed upon agreement of the
parties. For the first subproject, under the PPA, the Project Company is obligated to build
a fully-dispatchable, low-speed diesel power plant that is capable of generating 60 MW.
The plant must be constructed according to a specified schedule and may be maintained at
approved intervals. To ensure continuity of revenue, the Project Company will receive a
fixed capacity payment sufficient to cover debt service, fixed operation and maintenance
costs and a return on equity each month whether or not the plant is operated by JPSCo.
This capacity payment will be indexed for inflation, exchange rate fluctuadons, and interest
rate variations. In addition, when the plant generates energy, the Project Company will be
compensated for fuel burned and for variable operation and maintenance expenses and will
be indexed for inflation and for fuel price variations. JPSCo will post a revolving letter of
credit to ensure timely payment of these amounts.
On the other hand, JPSCo will ensure proper performance by the Project Company by
means c f the following requirements: (a) the capacity payment will only be paid for tested
capacity; (b) the energy payment will only be paid for kWh generated; (c) the Project
Company must post security deposits beginning with :he signing of the PPA until its
expiration; (d) liquidated damages will be imposed on the Projected Company if it delivers
the plant late, with insufficient capacity, or is unable to meet designated operating levels;
and (e) JPSCo may terminate the PPA if the Project Company defaults and may purchase
the Project under specified conditions.
3.   Fuel SuyAgmet lffA
Although the Project Company is free to purchase fuel oil from the various fuel marketers
in Jamaica or directly from overseas suppliers, the Project Company may opt to procure
fuel oil from Petrojam, Inc. If the Project Company chooses to ente. into the FSA with
Petrojam, the Project Company may purchase fuel oil up to certain daily maximum volumes
upon proper notice at a price determined from GOJ from time to time. The Project
Company must post a letter of credit, however, to ensure payment of amounts owed to
Petrojam. For its part, Petrojam will commit to supply fuel oil within certain specifications,
but the Project Company will be responsible for the inland transportation of the fuel.



- 85 -
Annex 6.4
Page 3 of 3
4. Abrnkev Construction Contract (TKC)
If the Project Company so desires, it may delegate the responsibility for constructing and
commissioning the plant to a c )ntractor through TKC. The TKC will provide detailed
specifications for the plant, e detailed timetable for implementation, and detailed
arrangements for equipment pr(curemnint and construction management. The contractor
must complete the work on a fixed price basis and will be subjected to liquidated damages
for late completion or bonuses for early completion. Similarly, the contractor must pay
liquidated damages if it fails to meet certain plant output and heat rate levels. To ensure
payment of these liquidated damages, the contractor must post a performance bond and
provide an unlimited completion guarantee.
5.   QOpeon and Maintenance Agrement (O & N
The Project Company may also choose to enter into an 0 & MA with a contractor it the
Project Company is not capable of operating the plant itself. The 0 & MA would provide
for the operation and maintenance of the Projects. More specifically, the O&MA would
specify the procedures for operation and maintenance and the staffing of these functions.
The contractor would be paid a fee relating to the compensation received under the PPA and
would share liability for any liquidated damages imposed under the PPA. Ordinarily, the
contractor would be asked to post a bond to ensure performance.
6.    Site Lease Agreement (SLA)
JPSCo will acquire the site and lease it to the Project Company for a period of time
commensurate with the term of the PPA. Any lease payments required of the Project
Company will be passed through in the tariff paid by JPSCo. The Project Company may
only use the site for the purposes of the Project and must maintain it in an orderly
condition.
7. Shareholders' Agreement (SM
This agreement will establish the Project Company under the Jamaican Companies Act for
the Purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining the Project. Under the SA, the
shareholders will be obligated to commit certain sums of money and will be entitled to
corresponding shares of revenues and liabilities. The SA will also provide f )r the
management of the Project Company.
8.   Escrow Aemeat ffAL
A number of entities, including the Project Company, the lenders, the contractors, JPSCo,
Petrojam and GOJ, will execute an EA for the Project. Ihe EA will establish one or more
escrow accounts into which all Project revenues will be deposited and from which all
Project revenues will be distributed. Principle among these escrow accounts will be a debt
service reserve and an operation and maintenance reserve.



86
Annex 7.1
Page 1 of 8
JAMICA
ENERGY SECTIOR DEREGLULATION AND PRIVAT17-ATION P-ROJECT
Consultancy Services for Power Sector Regulalry Framework and Ptivatization of JPSC(o.
Terms of Reference
I.    Background
1.    Public supply of power in Jamaica is dominated by the Jamaica Public Service Company,
Ltd. (JPS). The bauxite, cement and sugar industries all have installed generation capacity for self-
consumption, and although some of these units are connected to the transmission grid, JPS
purchases only minimal amounts from these units. With the exception of this private generation
capacity, JPS' monopoly is complete with respect to generation, transmission and' distribution
systems. The total generating capacity of JPS amounts to 523 MW; including four thermal power
stations, with a total capacity of 499 MW (96%), and nine hydro stations, with a total capacity of
24 MW (4%), with minor contributions made by bagasse, peat and fuel wood. In 1990, JPS' net
generation and purchases amounted to 1,944 GWh, of which sales were 1,569 GWh. Residential
customers accounted for 32% of JPS' total sales, small commercial and industrial consumers
accounted for 48%, large commercial and industrial consumers accounted for 11% and other
consumers 9%. Losses were approximately 19%, of which non-technical losses ("unaccounted
for") were about 9%. Technical losses include losses in transmission lines, substations,
distribution and distribution transformers. Non-technical losses include defective meters, incorrect
metering, and unregistered consumption. JPS has recently initiated programs to reduce both
technical and non-technical losses.
2.   JPS was incorporated by foreign investors as a private company in 1923. In 1971, the
Government of Jamaica (GOJ) acquired a controlling interest in JPS, and subsequently completed
the acquisition of 99% of the issued ordinary capital in 1975. The basic legislation governing the
power sector consists of the Electric Lighting Act of 1890 and the Electricity Development Act of
1974. The Electric Lighting Act empowers the Minister to license any authority or company to
supply electricity under the Act's provisions within any area on the island, subject to the terms of
the license and regulations made under the Act. The Electricity Development Act established ahe
Electricity Authority which under the Act, would function as the authority responsible for power
sector development. In addition, the Electricity Authority is authorized to regulate the licence-
holding utilities. Under the Electric Lighting Act GOJ granted to JPS, in 1978, a 39-year "All
Island Electric Licen.se", which gives JPS exclusive rights to provide electricity publicly and
obligates JPS to supply electricity to all parts of the island.
3.    Originally, JPS was reguiated by an independent Public Utility Commission. That
Commission was superseded by the Electricity Authority in 1975 following enactment of the
Electricity Development Act and the acquisition of the Company by GOJ. Althoulgh the Electricity
Authority technically still has jurisdiction over JPS, in practice the Company reports directly to
GOJ, through the Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy (MPUTE). JPS provides
monthly financial reports tc the Ministry, and it is closely involved in financial and investment
planning for JPS. JPS files a request for a rate adjustment with MPIJTE which then analyzes the
request and submits it to the full Cabinet for approval. From 1984-1990, however, there were no
tariff increases. This, combined with increasing inflation and devaluation of the Jamaican dollar,,
resulted in a d   'on of JPS' financial condition by 1989 and in 1989/90, the company had a
negative rate i     The situation improved in 1990/91 following a in  rate increi



- 87 -
Annex71~
Page 2 of 8
37% in April of 1990 and the rate of returli increased to about 6%, while the debt service cover
ratio also improved from 1.75 to 2.10. Recently, another rate increase of about 17% was
approved in December 1991.
4.    Over the next 20 years, electricity demand in Jamaica is expected to increase at an average
annual rate of approximately 4% per year. In order to meet that demand, sabstantial investment in
the power sector will be required. The public sector, however, cannot meet these expansion
needs. Accordingly, GOJ has opted to encourage the introduction of the private sector into the
provision of electricity, and in 1990, GOJ established a Steering Committee for Private Sector
Participation in the Energy Sector in order to coordinate and promote private sector participation in
energy development. In the short term, GOJ has already undertaken steps to promote the
development of private power plants in Jamaica on a build-own-operate ("BOO") basis. Private
investors would establish a project company in Jamaica which would own, finance and operate
these projects, and enter into a long-term power purchase agreement with JPS for the supply of
power. The purchase of power would be based on a two-part tariff, including a capacity charge
and an energy charge, the details of which would be oudined in the power purchase agreement. In
order to attract investors, a prequalification notice for the developer of the first such plant, a 60
MW slow-speed diesel plant, was issued in May 1991, and a short list of qualified investors has
been finalized. A Request for Proposals will be issued to the pre-qualified investors shortly and
the selection of the developer is expected to be completed by April 1992, and the plant to come on
line by 1994. GOJ expects to conduct similar solicitation for a 60 MW combustion turbine plant
and a 180 MW coal-fired plant during 1992 and 1993.
5 .   In parallel with GOJ's solicitadon of private investors to develop additional capacity, GOJ
has declared its intention to privatize JPS. The proposed privatization of JPS, and induction of
private power production would require regulation of the sector to ensure economic and efficient
operadon of the sector, reliable power supply to the consumer, and consistent and independent
tariff policy. Independent regulatory oversight will give private investors' confidence and,
therefore, help to increase vrivate investment. At the same time, the elimination of the direct link
between JPS and GOT will require effective regulation to protect Jamaican consumers and
investors.
6.   In an effort to further the initial steps taken by GOJ, this study, consisting of three phases,
would be commissioned by GOJ and administered by the World Bank. The first phase of the
study would recommend the broad structure and ownership of the power sector and an appropriate
regulatory framework for the privatized power sector. The second phase of the study would
address the detailed implications of the recommended structure, including the organizations
required for the new structure, including the regulatory institutions(s) allocation of assets in the
sector, required tariff adjustment mechanism, etc. The third phase of the study would address the
implementation program, including the required legislative and regulatory changes, and a detailed
strategy, program, and implementation schedule for the privatization.



- 88 -
Annex 7.1
Page 3 of 8
II.   Objectives
7.    The objectives of this study are:
(i)  recommend an institutional structure for privately-owned power sector and
regulatory regime, which would promote the following objectives:
1.    attract foreign and local private capital and broaden local ownership
2.    provide efficient and reliable supply of electricity at least cost
3.    promote enviromnentally acceptable operation of the power sector
(ii)  define ownership of constituent utility(ies) as well as a. regulatory framework
consistent with the recommended ownership structure and required institutions to
regulate the sector.
(iii)  prepare a privatization strategy to implement the institutional, regulatory and
ownership changes recommended.
MI.  Scop)e of Work
Phase I - Broad Structure and Ownership of Power Sector
8.    For Phase I of the study, the consultant(s) will be expected to perform the following tasks:
(i)   Review existing studies and any other information sources required to analyze the
power sector, including the following aspects:
1.    Functions and operational performance of JPS, including its legal status and
organization.
2.    Financial position and performance of JPS, including condition of the
company's assets.
3.    Human resources and management of JPS.
4.    The current laws and institutional arrangements for regulation and operation
of the power sector.
(ii)   Undertake an environmental screening of the existing generation transmission and
distribution facilities of JPS to determine potential problem areas, and provide cost
estimates associated with the most critical pollution mitigation and clean up
activities. The recommendations should be based on World Bank environmental
guidelines and should take into account studies being carried out under ongoing
Inter-American Development Bank loans which will be available for reference upon
completion.
(iii)   Analyze and evaluate thc experience of other countries for altenative organizational
structures and regulation of privately owned power sectors. Particular emphasis



- 89 -
Annex 7.1.
Page 4 of 8
should be placed on the models and experiences of developing countries with
power sectors of similar size and economies at similar levels of developmer.. The
following aspects should be investigated:
1.    extent of vertical and horizontal integration.
2.    feasibility and naturc of potential competition in generation and supply.
3.    ownership options for generation, transmission and distribution.
4.    broad regulatory arrangements required for each altemative institutional and
ownership structure.
(iv)   Recommend an organizational and ownership structure for the power sector and
propose options and recommend an appropriate regulatory framework for the
recommended structure.
Phase H - Detailed Organizational Structure and Regulatory Framework
9.    For Phase II of the study, the consultant(s) will be required to perform the following tasks:
(i)   Based on the rccommended structure proposed in Phase I, if more than one entity is
considered in the recommended structure, develop a plan for creating the new
corporate entities with public ownership, and define the following aspects:
1.   the organizational structure and functions of the entities in the power sector.
2.   the allocation of existing physical assets and liabilites to each entity and the
need for addidonal physical assets.
3.   the separation of finances and accounts and the need for additional financial
resources.
4.    develop detailed specifications for new commercial arrangements for the
sector.
5.   the allocation of existing human resources to each entity. Idewify issues
arising in respect of human resources (e.g., pay and conditions, pension
arrangements, redundancy provisions, union representation) and make
appropriate recommendations.
(ii)   Based oi. the recommended stracture for the power sector, provide a detailed
outline of tie. required regulatory regime. In doing so, the following should be
addressed
1.   Identify the instdtution(s) and insdtutional structure necessary to administer
the recommended regulatory framework.
2.    Define the functions of the regulatory institution(s), including its role in
ratemakdng, system and least cost investment planning, licensing, dispatch,



- 90
Annex 7.1
Page 5 of 8
maintenance of quality of service- safety, protecdon of the environment, and
dispute resolution.
3.    Explain the relationship of the regulatory institution(s) and existing
governmental endties, and power sector entities including BOO projects.
4.    Define the rights and obligadons of the power sector or portions thereof
(e.g., generating companies, transmission companies, and distribution
companies) vis-a-vis the new regulatory institution(s), and other
governmental entities, to BOO projects, and to the public.
5.    Determine detailed guidelines and procedures for performing each of the
functions of the regulatory institution(s). In particular, identify the criteria,
periodicity, participants and procedures to be ir,volved in ratemaking and
investment approvals.
(iii)   Determine the need for and propose modifications to existing legislation and
procedures to implement the recommended regulatory framework.
(iv)   Prepare detailed 10 year finar.cial projections for the entities included in the
recommended structure. Include the following:
1.    detailed calculation of revenues expected from each source based on
historical data and all available load growth studies, least cost plans and
tariff studies
2.    projections of required investment in existing and new facilities based on
historical data and all available planning studies for generation, transmission
and distribution.
3.    projections of operating and maintenance costs based on historical data and
planning studies.
4.    projected balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements.
5.    financing strategy to meet resources required.
(v)   undertake an operational efficiency review to identify the scope for improvements,
e.g., dispatching, fuel procurement, plant maintenance, local management and
conservation, etc.
(vi)  review tariff levels to identify the extent of variation from efficiency levels, and the
nature of any tariff adjustment measures.
Phase M - Impenentation Progr,m
10.   For Phase m of the study, the consultant(s) would be required to perform the following
tasks:



- 91 -
Annex 7.
Page 6 of 8
(i   Identify the steps that must be taken to implement the recommended structure,
including any changes to existing laws and regulations, other than those included in
Phase II of the study, which concerns the regulatory framework. Assist in the
drafting of new legislation and regulations.
(ii)  Evaluate briefly the feasibility of the different methods of implementing the
recommended alternative for privatization of JPSCo.(e.g., sale of shares to the
public, ESOP, trade sale of companies or assets, or a combination.) and
recommend one or more methods. This should include preliminary estimations of
the value of the entity.
(iii) Identify the required permanent regulatory staff and prepare the job description for
professional staff.
(iv)  In the event more than one entity is proposed for the sector, prepare a development
plan for each new entity, including transfer of assets, liabilities and employees,
contractual arrangements or other commercial arrangements, management
development/training needs, etc.
IV.  OrganUatoon
11.   The lead firm should have access to the following areas of substantive expertise either in-
house or through sub-contractors or associates:
-     power sector regulation
-     utility accounting and auditing
-     power engineering
-     utility operation and maintenance
-     environmental assessment of power systems
-     personnel management
-     udlity forecasting
-     economists with experience in privatization of the power sector
-     legal counsel with experience in private power and privatization
-     investment bankers with experience in private power and privatization
-     local accounting and legal requirements
12.  It is expected that the consultants will work closely with the Permanent Secretary, MME.
The Permanent Secretary will be asked to provide a local team consisting of representatives of the
National Investment Bank of Jamaica, JPS, the Attorney General's Office, and other relevant GOJ
agencies which will be responsible for implementing the strategy adopted by GOJ.
C',



- 92 -
Aex 7.1
Page 7 of 8
13.  Throughout the study, the consultant should report to Mr. David Baughman of the World
Bank, Tel.: (202) 473-2085. The coordinadon of the activities in Jamaica will be carried out by
Dr. Arthur Geddes, Ministry of Public Utilides, Transport and Energy, 36 Trafalgar Road,
Kingston 10, Jamaica, Tel.: (809) 926-9170-9; Fax: (809) 926-2835.
V.   Deliverables and Time Table
14.  The study should be performed in the following stages:
(i)  The consultant(s) should prepare a report that analyzes the current status of the
power sector, the models and experience in other countries and recommend an
nstitutional and ownership structure and an appropriate regulatory framework for
the power sector. The report should include an executive summary of not more
than 10 pages. -iihis report should be completed within the following number of
days from the date of appointment:
-   Submit draft report with recommendations on an
organization structure and regulatory framework for
the power sector.                               45 days
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank.               60 days
-   Submit final report on recommendations.         75 days
-   Approval by GOJ of recommendations in study,
review by World Bank.                           90 days
Phase II
(ii)  The consultant(s) should prepare a detailed report that examines the functions,
organization guidelines and procedures necessary to implement the framework
recommended in Phase I. This report should be about 50 pages in length, not
including attachments and include an executive summary of not more than 10
pages. Organizational charts and tables summarizing the material should be
included. Any financial models used for financial projections would be subject to
review by GOJ and the Bank. This report should be completed within the
following number of days from the date of appointment
-   Submit draft report on the detailed institutional,
organizational requirements for the recommended
power sector structure and the appropriate regulatory    120 days
regime.
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank.               135 days



- 93 -
Annex 7.1
Page 8 of 8
Submit final report on detailed requirements for
proposed structure.                              150 days
Approval by GOJ of detailed requirements and
regulatory regime for recommended structure.
Review by World Bank.                           165 days
Phase m
(iii)  The consultant(s) should prepare a report on the detailed privatization strategy and
implementation strategy including idendfying the required staffing and assisting in
the drafting of the legislation to implement the proposed structure. The report
should include an executive summary of not more than 10 pages. The report
should be completed within the following number of days from the date of
appointment:
-   Submit draft report on proposed privatization strategy
and a detailed institutional, strategy and
implementation program to implement privatization,
including staffing required and necessary legislation.  180 days
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank.                 195 days
-   Submit final report on strategy and implementation
program for the privatization.                   210 days
Consultants should submit fifteen (15) copies of the draft report and thirty (30)
copies of the final report to GOJ and five (5) copies of the draft report and ten (10)
copies of the final report to the World Bank.
VI.  Budget an  Eees
15.  The consultants should provide a firm fee quote. Details should be provided for each grade
of staff, of the hours and rates on which the quote is based. -he split between the local Jamaican
and foreign components should also be given. The proposal should include international travel;
preparation of interim presentations and reports; legal documents, and the final report; equipment;
insurance; office supplies; subsistence allowances; tranwsportation in Jamaica (beyond that provided
by JPSCo. or the Government); and related expenses.



- 94 -
Annex 7.2
Page 1 of 8
ENERGY SECrO  DREGLTO  AND PRIVA3IZATION PROJ13Cr
Consultancy Services
Deregulation of the Petroleum Subsectoi and Privatization of Petrojam
Terms of Reference
I.   BackgrovLnd.
1.  The petroleum sector in Jamaica is divided at present between private marketing
companies (affiliates of multinational oil companies) and the government-owned Petroleum
Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ). The marketing companies own a number of storage and
distribution facilities and domestic retail sales of petroleum products. PCJ, through its
subsidiary Petrojam Limited, owns and operates the sole refinery and has a dM fact
monopoly on the import of crude oil, while PCJ has a d& fat monopoly on the import of
refined petroleum products. This monopoly is due to prohibitive import tariffs applicable
only to private importers (i.e., marketing companies) while imports of Petrojam ane exempt.
2.  Petrojam operates a 36,000 barrels per day refinery located adjacent to Kingston
Harbour. It was established in 1982, when the refinery was acquired from Esso by the
Government. Petrojam, while 100% Government owned, operates as an independent
organization, itself having several subsidiaries and operating and service divisions. It is a
simple hydro-skimming unit built in 1963 in Kingston.
3.   As part of its ongoing liberalization and privatization programs, the Govenmment has
decided to further deregulate the sector and has approved Petrojarn as an entity to be
privatized. The proposed privatization of Petrojam and deregulation of the petroleum
subsector are consistent with the energy sector strategy of the Government, which promotes
a greater role for the private sector, effective management of energy sector entities and
deregulation of the sector. The objective of the Consultants' work is to help define the
specifics of this strategy and organize the preparatory steps towards its implementaion.
4.  Privatization. The Government of Jamaica has sustained a successful privatization
program since the early 1980s. Privatization of the remaining public entities and assets has a
high priority in the Manley Government's agenda. In early 1990, the Government
announced its decision to undertake a far reaching accelerated privatization program to (i)
reduce the size and role of the public sector, particularly in commercially oriented activities;
(ii) increase private sector participation and competition in the economy; (iii) improve
efficiency; (iv) reduce the financial drain on the budget; (v) encourage foreign capital and
technology inflow; (vi) ensure high quality of service and (vii) widen the base of private
ownership. The Prime Minister Paper issued in July 1991, spelled out the strategy,
objectives, and institutional arrangements to implement the new privatization program. The
Ministry Paper also contains a list of 67 public entities/assets, approved by Cabinet for
privatization over the next few years. Petrojam has been specifically identified by the
Govemment as one of the public sector entities to be privatized.



- 95 -
Annex ,22
Page 2 of 8
5    In the new privatization process, the Cabinet has overall responsibility for the approval
and review of the privatization program and policy. A committee of the Cabinet, called the
"Privatization Committee" has been established to propose modalities to be employed for
privatization and final acceptance of rejection of offers. The National Investment Bank of
Jamaica (NIBJ) is delegated as the central implementing agency for privatization by a cabinet
decision. New procedures also allow for the establishment of "special enterprise teams"
involving concerned ministries to work on large and complex privatization cases. In the case
of Petrojam, there is a special steering committee established which coordinates energy
sector strategy. The committee is called the Minister's Steering Committee and is comprised
of representatives from the Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy (MPUTE),
NIBJ, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, Planning Institute of Jamaica, Bank of Jamaica,
Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of the Attorney General, PCJ, Petrojam and Jamaica
Public Service Co., and chaired by the Minister of MPUTE.
6.   D eregulatignLberalization in the Petroleum Subsec   Parallel with its privatization
program the Government has been deregulating the economy to create an environment
conducive to private sector development and increase competition. The Government has
already taken a number of significant steps to dismantle import monopolies, remove price,
investment and import controls and reduce import duties and taxes. In the petroleum
subsector previous steps included the deregulation of distribution and retail margins,
allowing distribution companies to set their own wholesale and retail prices. However,
Petrojam continues to fix ex-refinery prices.
7.   The monopoly position of the PCJ derives from legislationl which provides PCJ and
Petrojam certain privileges and tax exemptions. Under the present regime, while Petrojam
enjoys exemptions from import taxes and duties, all other importers are subject to prohibitive
taxes and duties. Petrojam sets ex-refinery prices on all products using pricing formulae
based on USGC prices, which are at present adjusted on a weekly basis.
8.   Moreover, despite the deregulation of domestic margins, there may still be other
regulatory and legal barriers to entry and competition downstream i.e., tankage/storage,
transportation and distribution wholesale and retailing stages. Increased competition among
suppliers is an important aspect of the deregulation process.
9.   Another important issue to be considered in thc context of deregulation/privatization is
an assessment of benefits from existing San Jose Accords for crude oil refined products
imported from Venezuela and Mexico and the potential for the continuation of such benefits
after taking into account alternative supply sources in the intenadtional market.
10. ESSIPS Study and Other Background Information. A recently completed Energy
Sector Strategy and Investment Planning Study (ESSIPS - September 1991), commissioned
by the Government to the World Bank's ESMAP group should serve as reference and
provide substantial background material for the present study. Moreover, audited financial
statements of Petrojam for past years and other relevant documents will be made available to
the consultants for the privatization strategy part of this work.
1 Including the Petroleum Act of 1979, the Petroleum Refining Industry (Encouragement)
Act of 1963 and the Petroleum Refining and Industry (Recognized Refiner, Petrojam Ltd.)
Order of 1991, which is made under the 1963 Act.



- 96 -
Annex 7.2
Page 3 of 8
II.  ObjectivM  snd Scope of the Study.
11. Objectives. In response to the Government's request, the present study will be
undertaken with the support of the Bank in preparation of the privatization of Petrojam and
liberalization/deregulation of the petroleum sector. The results of the study will also serve as
input for two proposed Bank operation (Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project
and the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan), both of which will be presented to the
Board mid-1992.
12.  There are three main objectives for the study. First, to determine the steps necessary to
eliminate Petrojam's import monopoly and establish a competitive, non-protected petroleum
products sector at the import, refining, transport, distribution, wholesale and retailing stages.
Second, to determine appropriate, transparent market-based pricing principles which do not
compromise GOrs current fiscal objectives. Third, to develop a privatization strategy for
Petrojam consistent with its efficient operation in a competitive environment.
13. The study will consist of two parts (which require different types of skills), dealing
respectively with: (I) the Regulatory Framework for the petroleum sector and Pricing Policv
and (II) Privatizaton Strategy for the refinery. Since there is some degree of interdependence
between Part I and Part II of the study, while the preparations could begin simultaneously,
the results will have to be integrated (a) to assess alternative privatization strategies in the
deregulation context and (b) to review specific deregulation steps in light of their impact on
the privadzation process.
Regulatory Framework: The objective is to promote competition in the
petroleum sector by establishing a sound regulatory framework and avoiding
any ftfa= or d ium import monopolies, prior to the privatization of Petrojam.
This is important so that the privatzaion takes place within the new regulatory
framework and thus avoids creating a protected private monopoly.
Transparency in the policy, legal and regulatory environment in the petroleum
sector is essential to avoid a loss of benefits to the economy. A clear, well-
defined legal/regulatory environment as well as pricing principles, are also
needed to provide assurance both to the new owners of Petrojam and the private
distribution companies that their future investments will not be subject to
discretionary treatment in the future.
Privatization Strategy: The objective is to develop within the reformed
regulatory framework a strategy for the privatization of the refinery including the
necessary preparatory work (e.g., valuation and preparation of a draft
prospectus) and exploring various options with respect to the modalities and
methods of privatization, as well as an implementation schedule for the
privatization.
14.       Sc=: The actual transaction of offering the refinery for sale through a bidding
process will not be a part of this assignment, but will be managed by consultant(s) selected
through a competitive, transparent process supervised by the Bank. In addition, an
environmental Audit will be done in parallel as preparatory work for privatization under
separate TOR, which will be finalized by March 15, 1992.



- 97 _
Annex 7.2
Page 4 of 8
PArt l: Regulatory Framework
Task A:  Concerning the imngrt and pricing regime for crude oil and
petroleum products, the consultants will:
(a) analyze the existing regulations and legislation and other agreements (such as
San Jose, and CARICOM - Common External Tariff, CET) concerning imports
of crude oil and petroleum products to identify the existing regulatory provisions
which led -i the d; fat monopoly of Petrojam, and other impediments to free
imports of petroleum products and crude oil on the competitive basis.
(b) determine steps/modifications/amendments needed to implement the
following import policy: modifying existing import taxes and duties such that all
petroleum products and crude oil are subject to a single uniform import tariff
(say, within the range of 5%-20%) while all other restrictions to petroleum
imports are eliminated and all potential impurters including Petrojam become
subject to the same import tarit; level, eliminating any room for discretion.
Examine the impact of such a tariff structure and import regime on the
competitiveness of a privatized refinery, consumer prices and the level of
competition in the importing and distribution stages of petroleum products. Also
determine adjustments needed in other domestic excise and other special taxes to
secure revenues for the GOJ as consistent with its fiscal objectives.
(c) review existing pricing formulae for determining ex-refinery prices of
petroleum products and the implications of introducing a fully-market
determined price regime in line with international markets. Based on this review,
establish and propose the basic principles for a new pricing mechanism.
(d) assess the likelihood and possibility of dumping of petroleum produzts,
by reviewing trade practices in the petroleum subsector and legal safety-net
provided by the Anti-Dumping Act.
e)   draft new regulations/modifications to existing legislation to implement the
new liberalized import (and export) policies applying to petroleum products and
to revise pricing principles.
(f)  examine in detail the San Jose Agreements and to assess their benefits for
the GOJ and the economy as a whole and potential for continuation of such
benefits and formulate specific arrangements for the Government to maintain
access to the advantages offered while maintaining a competitive import regime
and pricing policy.
Task B: Concerning the review of other deregulation isse, the
consultants will:
(i) review legislation/regulations and other factors (such as capacity of
existing racks/docks, transport and other facilities and market structure) which
may cause barriers to competition in the industry at the transport, production,
storage, distribution and wholesale and retail marketing stages.



- 98 -
Annex 7,2
Page 5 of 8
cii) in particular. assess the possibility of unfair competition practices (price
collusion) in do,mestic distribution under a free import regime, examining the
market structure and provisions under the new proposed Competition Act.
(iii) draft regulations and modifications to the relevant legislati )n to eliminate
other remaining barriers to competition at all stages mentioned above.
Part Ih Privatization Strategy
Concerning the priyatizaflon strategv of the refinery, the consultants will:
(a)  analyze options, privatization strategies and modalides for pcivati-adon
(public share offers, sale as a going concern, ESOPs etc.) of Petrojam. Among
other things, the consultants should consider the advantages and disadvantages
of selling Petrojam as a unit or in parts (e.g., separating the refinery from other
assets such as storage facilities), a public offering of shares vs. sale to a single
buyer, and sale through negotiation vs sale through auction;
(b) in particular, study the merits of the following opdon and compare it to other
privatization alternatives from the point of view of (i) increased competition in
the sector, (ii) efficient use of existing facilities; (iii) prospects for privatization;
(iv) expected sale proceeds: Establishment of an independent storage company
assets which would serve all new entrants in the suppliers market (similar to a
common carrier status'.
(c) based on Petrojam's financial and other relevant audits prepare a valuation of
Petrojam. The valuation should assume a completely liberalized trade regime,
no new investments by the Government before privatization, and no specific
conditions placed on the new owners other than meeting environmental and
other regulatory standards. Valuation should be done employing various
methods, including future business potential (future income streams), liquidation
and recent sales of similar facilities. Results of the valuation exercise will be
used solely as a "reference" in setting bidding parameters.
(d) In addition, again assuming a deregulated environment as in (c), assess
the net value (if any) of the upgrading scenarios considered for the refinery
under the ESMAP study (using future income streams method), which the
private investors may find worthwhile. Results should be provided in a form
that can be used by GOJ to advertise as appropriate in the sale prospectus.
(e)  on the basis of this analysis, recommend the most appropriate strategy,
among the available options, for proceeding wih the privatization program;
(f)  recommend a timetable, specifying all required activities to be completed
and policy decisions that need to be taken to bring the refinery to the point of
sale and prepare a draft prospectus as well as draft Renuest For Proposal (RFP)
and a bid document that would include criteria for evaluation.
III. Qrganizaton



- 99 -
Annex72
Page 6 of 8
15.       The study should be conducted by a major accounting/management consulting
firm with extensive, practical experience in the regulation of the petroleum subsector, and the
privatization of state-owned enterprises, including oil rePlning companies. If the firm does
not have all the relevant experience and/or expertise to satisfactorily complete either Part I or
Part II of dk.e study, the firm could associate with one or more firms and/or individuals who
have the relevant expetience and expertise to undertake the assignment. The lead firm should
have access to, inter aia the following areas of substantive expertise either in-house or
through sub-contractors or associate:
-    petroleum sector regulationi
-    petroleum accounting and auditing
-    refinery and process engineering
-    petroleum refining operations and maintenance
-    refining optimization models
-    personnel management
-    environmental assessment of oil refinery operations
-    economics and financial and valuation modeling in petroleum
and refining operatons
-    organization, management and restructuring
-    legal counsel with experience in private refinery operations and
privadzation
-    local accounting and legal requirements.
16.       Consultants should indicate how they plan to organize the work in orde,r to reach
the objectives and to complete the tasks listed in section 2. In particular, an organization
chart, indicating the basic structure, the permanent and temporary staff required and the
extemal technical, legal and financial support needed from the firm or from other firms or
consultants will be required.
17.       In the process, consultant should submit a master timetable for the privatization
process indicating key steps to be taken by the Govenmment and concerned entities. In the
process, consultants shall assemble copies of all documents evidencing:
-    Right of a tenure to the property occupied
-    Trade Union Agreements
-    Legislation applicable to the subsector
-    Supply contract
-    Loan agreements
-    Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation
-    Licenses
-    Documents related to existing tax status of the entity
-    Ex-refinery pricing formulae.
18.       In performing these tasks, GOJ, PCI and Petrojam would provide the
consultants as much information as possible concerning the legal ownership of Petrojam,
quality and types of services currently provided and the characteristics of the work force.
19.      Ik is expected that the consultants would work closely with the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Energy (MPUTE) or its designated
person. The Permanent Secretary will be asked to provide a local team consisting of
representatives of the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NEBJ), Petroleum Corporation



- 100 -
Page 7 of 8
of Jamaica PCJ/Petrojam, the Attorney General's Office, and other relevent GOJ agencies
which will be responsible for implementing the energy strategy adopted by GOJ.
20.      Throughout the study, the consultant should report to Mr. Abderrahmane
Megateli of the World Bank in Washington, D.C., U.S.A., Tel. (202) 473-8631. The
coordination of the activities in Jamaica wi-l be carried out by Dr. Arthur Geddes, Technical
Director, MPUTE, 36 Trafalgar Road, Kingston 10, Jamaica. Tel: (809) 926-9170-9, Fax:
(809) 926-2835.
21.      During the consultant's visit to Jamaica, MPUTE will provide all the required
information to undertake the study and will also provide office space and secretarial support
IV.      Deliverables and Timetable
Part I
22.      The study should be performed in the following stages:
(i)   The consultant(s) should prepare a report that addresses Part I Task A
conct;.Aing the import and pricing regime for crude oil and petroleum
products and its recommendations. This report should be approximately
40 to 50 pages in length, not including attachments, but include an
executive summary of not more than 10 pages. This report should be
completed within the following number of days from the date of
appointment:
-   Submit draft report with recommendations           20 days
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank                   35 days
-   Submit final report on recommendations             45 days
-   Approval by G03 of recommendations
in the study and review by 'World Bank             60 days
-   Approval by 00OJof detailed requirements
and deregulation scheme and review by
World Bank                                         80 days
(ii)   The consultant(') snould prepare a report that addresses PaW L Task
concerning the review of other deregulation issues and draft iegulation
and modifications to the relevant legislation to eliminate other remaining
barriers to entry, exit and competition in the industry at the level of
production, storage, transport, distribution and wholesale and retail
marketing stages. This report should be approximately 40 to 50 pages in
length, not including attachments, but include an executive summary of
not more than 10 pages. This report should be completed within the
following number of days from the date of appointment:
-   Submit draft report with recommendations           35 days
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank                   50 days
-   Submit final report on recommendations             65 days
-   Approval by GOJ recmendation in the study
and review by the World Bank                       80 days



- 101 -
Annex 7.2
Page 8 of 8
Approval by GOJ of detailed requirements and
deregulation framework and review by
World Bank                                          105 days
Part I
(iii)   The consultant(sj aiould prepare a report on the detailed privatization
strategy of Petrojam ir. a deregulated environmeot and implementation
(with a timetable) strategy, as well as a draft Request F or Proposal and
bid document that would include criteria Sor evaluation. The report should
be about 50 pages in length not including attachments and include an
executive summary of not more than 10 pages. T'he report should be
completed within the following number of days from the date of
appointment:
-   Submit draft report on proposed strategy and a detailed  110 days
institutional, strategy and implementation program and
timetable to implement privatization
-   Review by GOJ and the World Bank                     125 days
-   Submit fiaal report on strategy and implementation
progrm for the privatization                        140 days
-   Approval by GOJ of detailed requirements, and
privatization strategy and implementation plan      190 days
Consultants should submit fifteen (15) copies of the draft report and thirty (30)
copies of the final report to GOJ and five (5) copies of the draft report and ten (10) copies of
the final report to the World Bank.
V.        Budget and Fees
23.       The consvltants should provide a firm fee quote indicatiLg a man-month rate for
each category of personnel for each part of the study with a ceiling. Details should be
provided for each grade of staff, of the hours and rates on which the quota is based. The
split between the local Ja-aican and foreign components should also be given. The
proposals should include ir. national travel; preparation of interim presentations and reports;
egal documents,i and the final report; equipment; insurance; office supplies; subsistence
Ilowances; transportaton in Jamaica (beyond that provided by PCJ/Petrojam the
C.overnment); and related expenses.



- 102 -
Annex 8.t
Page 1 of 4
JAMAICA
ENE&GY SECTO)R P_REMQ.LTATIN AND PRILVATIZATIO PROJEC
EcoonicI=tml Rae f Re=
Aclaan       atElciiSae
1. . JPSCo.'s electricity sales increased over the period 1980-91 at an average annual rate of
5.6%, from 932 GWh in 1980 to 1,69: GWh in 1991. Sales are foizcast to increase at a slightly
lower average annual rate of about 3.7% per year for the period 1992-2010. Actual and forecast
sales by consumer category are shown below in Table A8.1.
Table A8.1
JPSCo. Acwal and Forecast Sales by Con.jmer Category
Sales (GWh)          Ave. Annual
Actual    Forecast          Rate (%)
Categov          1981   192    2Q11    1981-92 12MILL
1. Residential    290    542      1112    '.9%      3.9%
2. Commercial &
Industrial
Small          383    712     1742      5.8%     4.8%
Large          121    303      411      8.7%     1 o6%
3. Other          .13      3       1       -0.4%    0.2%
TOTAL SALES   1 L621  iQ   La   1
2.    Actual sales for for the period 1981-92 in the residential sector increased at an average
annual rate of about 5.9% and accounted for about 32% of total sales in 1992. Sales to small
commercial consumers increased at an average annual rate of 5.8% and comprised about 42% of
JPSCo. sales, while sales to large commercial consumers dicreased by 8.7% during the period and
accounted for about 18% of total sales. Sales to other sectors fell by about 0.4% per year and
accounted for about 8% of total sales.
3.    The forecast sales of electricity for the period 1992-2011 was based on a GDP growth rate
of about 2.5% for 1992, rising to 3.0% in 1993, 3.5% in 1994, and thereafter a.sumed to be 4%
per year. It is also based on the maintenance of tariffs at their real levels in 1992, losses at about
19%, modest energy conservation through demand side management measures resulting in a
decrease in peak demand of about 47 MW per year by 2001, and no change in the relative prices of
electricity substitutes at the household level, kerosene and bottled gas. Sales forecasts for each
consumer category reveal that sales will increase in the residential sector at a forecast rate of about
4% per year, while sales to large commercial consumers will increase at 1.6% per year and sales to
small commercial consumers at 4.8% per year. Sales to other sectors will increase only marginally
by about 0.2% per year during this period. The maintenance of tariffs at their real 1992 levels will
require tariff adjustments, particularly in the early years of the forecast period, when local inflation
is expected to be higher than in the later years of the forecast period. Notwithstanding the revival
cf GDP growth during the period, these adjustment are expected to moderately dampen demand for
electricity, and hence the moderate expected sales growth.



- 103 -
Annex 8.1
Page 2 of 4
Iz St   t Alternadves
4.   The least cost expansion plan for the power subsector for the period 1992-2010 was
prepared by the consultants SWECO of Sweden for JPSCo. and reviewed as part of the Energy
Sector Strategy and Investment Planning Study, carried out by ESMAP. Subsequently, a modified
least cost plan based on SWECO's plan was developed by JPSCo. which was reviewed by the
Bank. This least cost plan and its assumptions were found to be satisfactory. The least cost
program developed by SWECO reveals a requirement of about 698 MW of additional generation
capacity by 2010. The units that are expected to come on stream during the period are shown in
the Table A8.2 below. Except for the first combustion turbine unit which would be implemented
by JPSCo. under the proposed Project, the remainder of the units would be implemented in the
private sector, either under build-own-operate arrangements or by a privately-held utility following
the privatization of JPSCo.
Table A8.2
Least Cost Expansion Plan for the Power Sector
(1993-2010)
Plant Tv          Year Commissioned       NW
Combustion Turbine      1993                30
Low Speed Diesel        1995              3x20
Combustion Turbine      1996                30
Coal Steam              1997                61
Coal Steam              1998              2x61
Coal Steam              1999                61
Coal Steam              2000                61
Combustion Turbine      2001                30
Coal Steam              2002                61
Coal Steam              2003                61
Coal Steam              2006                61
Low Speed Diesel        2006                20
Low Speed Diesel        2009                20
Low Speed Diesel        2010
TOTAL
5.   The least cost plan shows the two projects to be financed under the proposed Project as the
first three increments of the least cost plan for the power sector. The first 30 MW combustion
turbine unit would meet the first increment in capacity required and would come on line in 1993.
The 60 MW low speed diesel plant would meet the second increment in required capacity and
would come on line in 1994/95, while the second 30 MW combustion turbine unit would come on
line in 1996.
tlRao    tumn
6.   The approach taken to assess the economic merit of the project was to estimate the expected
direct benefits from the two investments in generating plant being financed under the proposed
Loan, i.e., the 60 MW diesel plant and the 60 MW combustion turbine plant, and compare these
benefits to the direct cost associated with the construction and operation of the two plants. The
mcasurable economic benefits to be derived from the project are the incremental sales associated
with the two plants over the useful life of these facilities. Sales from these units were estimated



- 104 -
Annex 8.1
Page 3 of 4
based on the gross output from each plant. Since the combustion turbine plant would be used as a
peaking plant, a 30% capacity factor was assumed, while since the diesel plant would be used as a
base load plant, a 89% capacity factor was assumed. From the net output, losses were deducted
amounting to about 19% and internal consumption of 4% for the combustion turbine plant and 5%
for the diesel plant. Sales were valued at JPSCo's actual average revenue per kilowatt hour for
FY92, expressed in constant 1992 US dollars, which was estimated at US$.117/kWh, based on an
average exchange rate of J$15/US$ for FY92.
7.    An alternative approach to measuring the incremental sales were to value them using the
cost of generation per kWh based on consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for electricity in each
sector. In the absence of electricty suplied by JPSCo. through the public grid, consumers would
be forced to install generators for their own consumption. Therefore, consumers willingness to
pay was calculated based on the capital and operation and maintenance costs of gas and diesel
generators, ranging in size from 11 kw to 5.5 MW. The weighted average WTP and the specific
generators used to calculate consumers' willingness to pay per kilowatt hour of electricity produced
and the consumer category in which these generators are used are given in Table A8.3 below:
Table A8.3
Consumers' Willingnesq to Pay Calculation
Est. WTP
Generator Size    Fa         Consumer Categor    Weights(%   (USS)kWh)
1.    11 kw       Gas          Residential           30          .26
2.    375 kw      Diesel       Small C&I             56          .10
3. 2.5 MW -                     & Other
5.5 MW      Diesel      Large C&I              14         .09
WYtedAveWT
8.    The estimated WTP for residential customers using 11 kw gas generators is US$.26/kWh;
for small commercial and industrial users, including users in other sectors, using 375 kw diesel
generators, the WTP for electricity is estimated at US$.10/kWh; for large commercial and
industrial users, using larger 2.5-5.4 MW  diesel generators, the WTP is estimated at
US$.09/kWh. Based on each sector's share of JPSCo.'s sales, weights were assigned to each
WTP figure to arrive at a weighted average WTP. The weights used were: 30% for residential,
56% for small commercial and industrial users, which includes the other sector category, 14% for
large commercial and industrial users. Based on these WTP estimates and weights, the weighted
average WTP is estimated at US$.15/kWh.
9.    The measurable costs of the low speed diesel and combustion turbine plants are: (a) the
capital costs of the two plants to be financed under the proposed Project, the combustion turbine
plant, the first unit of which would be implemented by JPSCo., while the second unit is
implemented by the private sector, and the low speed diesel plant to be implemented by the private
sector, (b) the capital cost of the required transmission facilities; (c) operation and maintenance
costs for each plant over their expected useful life; and (d) the fuel costs associated with the two
plants. Local capital and operation and maintenance costs were expressed in their equivalent
border prices using a standard conversion factor of .80. Fuel and other foreign costs were valued
at their respective border prices.



- 105 -
Ann8.1
Page 4 of 4
10.   The EIRR for the proposed Project is about 26%, based on the measurable costs and
benefits. If the project benefits are valued at willingness to pay as estimated, the project's
estimated EIRR increases significantly to about 38%.
11.   A sensitivity analysis was carried out for the project to test the project's rate of return
under various scenarios. The main risks to the project can be divided into the following categories:
DevYelmenLtRisk: Development risk for the private projects represent a delay in financial
closure. This would result in a delay in commissioning, which would cause an increase in
capital cost, reflecting increased IDC and increased development cost incurred by the
developers. The analogous risk for the public sector project is a delay in the start of
construction, which would also cause an increase the capital cost through increases in IDC.
For both the public and private sector projects, a delay in commissioning would also result
in a delay in revenue generated by the plant.
Construction Risks: Construction risks are absorbed by the private developer through an
erosion in the return to equity shareholders, as the developer is required to base his tariff on
fixed construction cost. In the public sector, construction risk is borne by the Government.
Qperaiing Risks Operating risk can be divided into the risk of deficient operation of the
plant which would result in higher O&M costs, and for private sector projects given their
limited recourse nature, the risk of non-payment for electricity supply. This latter risk is
mitigated through GOJ's guarantee of JPSCo.'s payments.
12.   The main quantifiable risks are delays in commissioning resulting from development risks,
which cause increases in capital costs and delay revenues, and operating risks which increase
O&M costs. Several scenarios were tested to determine the sensitivity of the project to various
degrees of capital cost increases and O&M cost increases, combined with a delay in the revenues
from the plants under the proposed Project. The maximum feasible delay for the private sector
projects was taken as one year. A prolonged delay in financial closure beyond one year would
likely result in abandonment or bankruptcy of the private sector project. Hence, for the purposes
of sensitivity analysis, the implementation of the projects were delayed one year with the
consequent one year delay in revenue inflows. A range of capital cost increases were tested to
determine the impact of such delays on the proposed Project's rate of return. Annex 8.2 contains a
table which details the various cost increase combination and their effect on the rate of return. With
capital cost increases of 50% and no O&M cost increases, the project's rate of return falls fom
26% to 18%. Increasing O&M costs along with increasing the capital cost and a delay in revenues
for one year revealed that the project was somewhat more sensitive to increases in O&M costs.
With only a small increase in capital cost of 10%, resulting from the delay in commissioning, and
an increase of 40% in operating costs, the project's rate of return falls from 26% to 12%. These
results indicate that the project's rate of return is robust given the conceivable risk faced by the
project.



- 106 -
Annex 8.2
Page 1 of 3
I  |  E 
W l 6 @@amg@segsgeggsegsseegegguus 
.     a ~~~ggggg i-S ggggggg SSSOUOiSS S 
s~ ~    ~~I   00a08E ddd.ddd9 ddddfddddd 
. ;53X?BttSB3t$fa.$t5! 
;   ,l      N  dS dd dd d      d fd dd dd df d 
II                                  2 ! 
I   9w 
I  i I5  dd       
!  ix ___________3



- 107 -
Annex 8.2
Page 2 of 3
JAAICA
ENE-RGY SECTOR DEREGOULATION AND PRIVATIATION PROJE-CT
Assumptions for the Economic Intemal Rate of Retum Calculation
1.    Ca&ial Cos: The capital costs of the proposed Project are the investment
expenditures for 60 MW diesel plant, the 60 MW combustion turbine plant and the required
transmission facilities. The foreign cost were expressed at border prices less taxes and
duties. Local costs were expressed in their equivalent border prices using a standard
conversion factor of 0.80. Phasing of expenditures is shown in the EIRR table.
2.    Annui --ra-ion and Maintenance Costs: Operations and maintenance costs were
estimated based on international experience with similar projects. Foreign costs were
expressed in border prices less taxes and dutdes. Local costs were expressed in their
equivalent border prices using a standard conversion factor of 0.80.
3.    Ful Costs: Fuel costs for the 60 MW diesel plant was estimated using a price for
No. 6 fuel oil of US$14/barrel, at a capacity factor of 89%. Fuel costs for the 60 MW
combustion turbine plant was estimated using a price for No. 2 fuel oil of US$30/barrel, at
a capacity factor of 30%.
Benefits
4.    Benefits were assumed to be the incremental sales associated with the 60 MW diesel
plant and the 60 MW combustion turbine plant. Incremental sales were estimated based on
gross output from each plant, assuming a capacity factor of 89% for the diesel plant and
30% for the combustion turbine plant. Internal consumpdon was assumed to be 5% for the
diesel plant and 4% for the combusdon turbine. Losses were assurned to be 19%. The
incremental sales were expressed at JPSCo.'s average revenue figure for FY1992 of
US$.117/kWh based on an exchange rate of J$26/US$. The average revenue for the
incremental sales was kept constant for the life of the project. As an alternative
methodology for valuation of the benefits, consumers' willingness to pay was calculated
based on the capital and operating costs of autogenerators. The average willingness to pay
for all categories of consumers was estimated at US$.15/kWh. Details on this calculation
are provided in Annex 8.3.



- 108 -
Annex
Page 3
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECIrOR DEREGUTLATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJEC
EIRR SENSMTVITY RESULTS
DNE-YEA.R D-ELAY IN PLANT COMSIONING
INCREASE IN CAPITAL COSTS (%)
0      S     10      15     20      25     30      35     40      4S     50
0     26     25      24     23      22     21      20     20      19      18     18
5     24     23      22     21      20      19     19     18      17      17     16
10     22     21      20      19     19      18     17      17     16      16     15
INCREASE          15     20      19     19      18     17      17     16      15     15      14     14
IN           20      19     18      17     17      16     15      15     14      14     13      13
O&M            25     17      17     16      15     15      14     14      13     13      12      12
COSTS (%)         30     16      15     15      14     13      13     12      121   11       11     11
35     15      14     14      13     12      12     11      11     10      10     10
40     14      13     12      12     11      11     10      10      9       9      9
45     13       12    11      11     10      10      9       9      9       8      8
50     11      11     10      10      9       9      8       8      8       7      7



- 109 -
Annex 8.3
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTO)R DEREGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJEC
Consumers' Willingness to Pay
Estimated Financial Costs of Autogeneration
(J$)
11 KW           375 KW        2.5-5.4 MW
Residential       Small C&I         Large C&I
Fixed Costs
Capital Cost,                                  211,000         2,067,143        22,621,000
Annual Charge2                                 103,988           856,515         9,372,468
O&M Cost3                                       2l1l10          327.714          2662.150
Total Fixed Costs                              124.777         1.184.229        124.570
Total Fixed Costs/KWh                             6249              158              0Q91
Variable Costs(prKh
Fuel Cost4                                        3.84              2.19              2.19
O&M Cost                                           0222                               0.22
Total Variable Costs                              4. 0A1                               41
Average Output (kWh)                            19.272           750,000        13,224,500
Average Cost of Generation                       10.52              3.99              3.32
(J$/kWh)5
.40               .15               .13
Average Cost of Generation
(US$/kWh)6
I   Retail price
2   Assumes a 40% cost of capital and 5-year life for the 11 KW unit, and a 40% cost of capital and
10-year life for the 375 KW and 2.5-5.4 MW units.
3   Fixed O&M co-i 375 KW unit = (10% insurance + $100,000 salaries + 50,000 administrative costs);
2.5-5.A MW unit = (10% insurance + $300,000 salaries + $100,000 administrative costs)
4   Based on assumed fuel cost of $7.71/litre (premium gas) for the 11 KW unit and $6.62/litre (diesel)
for the 375 KW and 2.5-5A MW units.
5 Assumes a 50% plant reserve margin for the 375 KW and 2.5-5.4 KW units.
6   Exchange Rate = J$26.00/JS$1.00



- 110 -
Annex 8.3
Page 2 of 2
JAMAICA
Consumers' Willingness to Pay:
Estimated Economic, Costs of Autogeneration
(J$)
11 KW           375 KW         2.S-5.4 MW
Residential       Small C&I          Large C&I
F ixed Costs
Capital Costi                                  137,600          1,272,000        14,823,200
Annual Charge2                                  67,922            527,069         6,141,654
O&M Cost3                                       1L382            247.20           LQ2,320
Total Fixed Costs                               81.746           774.269          7.943.974
Total Fixed Costs/KWh                             4.24               L
variable Cost Wme KWh}
Fuel Cost4                                        2.40              1A8                1.48
O&M Cost                                                            DJ01
Total Variable Costs                              2.6                                  L6
Average Output O(Wh)                             19,272           750,000        13,224,500
Average Cost of                                    6.76              2.66              2.23
Generation5(J$/kWh)
.26               . 10              .09
Average Cost of Generation5
(U$/kWh)6
1 Retail price, less taxes and duties, shadow priced using standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.80
2   Assumesa40% cost of capital and 5-year life forthe 11 KW unit, anda40% costof capital and
10-year life for the 375 KW and 2.5-5.4 MW units.
3  Fixed O&M cost 375 KW unit = (10% insurance + $100,000 salaries + 50,000 adminisive costs);
2.5-5A MW unit = (10% insurance + $300,000 salaries + $100,000 administrative costs). Shadow
priced using SCF of 0.80
4  Based on assumed fuel cost of $7.71/litre (premium gas) for the 11 KW unit and $6.62Aitre (diesel) for
the 375 KW and 2.5-5.4 MW units.
5 Assumes a 50% plant reserve margin for the 375 KW and 2.5-5.4 KW units.
6 Exchange Rate = J$26.00/UjS$1.00



- 111 -
Annex 9.1
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGUTLATION AND PRrVATIZATION PROJEC
Documents and Infoation in the Project Fi'e
Technical
1.    Least Cost Power Expansion study by SWECO, September 1991
2.    60 MW Low Speed Diesel Power Plant Feasibility Study by K&M Engineering
3.    30 MW Gas Turbine Feasibility Study by K&M Engineering
4.    Energy Assessment: Issues arnd Actions by ESMAP, April 1985
5.    Request for Proposal Document by K&M Engineering (Februaly 1992)
6.    Energy Sector Strategy and Investment Planning by ESMAP, (3 Volumes
June 1991)
7.    JPSCo. Statistical Review 1990
8.    JPSCo. IBRD Fourth Power Project Loan No. 2869-JM Progress Report No. 7 for
the 6th Semester Ending December 31, 1991
9.    Environment Screening of Proposed Diesel Power Facility by KBN, May 1991
10.   Environmental Assessment of Proposed Diesel Power Facility at Rockfort by
KBN, October 1991
11.   Environmental Assessment of 2 x 30 MW Gas Turbine Units by KBN, April 1992
12.   Least Cost Power Expansion Study by SWECO, 1991
13.   Power Market Survey and Local Forecast Study by SWECO, 1990
14.   Energy Demand Forecasts for Jamaica by Metoeconomica, Ltd. (1991)
Instittins
12.   The Electric Lighting Act
13.  JPSCo. Memorandum of Association
14.   JPSCo. Organization Structure (February 1992)
15.   JPSCo Annual Report (1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991)
16.   Petrojam Limited Auditors Report and Fmancial Statements (Year Ended March 31,
1991)
17.   Petrojam Liniited Annual Report (1986, 1987, 1988. 1989, 1990)



- 112 -
Annex 9.1
Page 2 of 2
18.   Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica, Auditors Report and Financial Statements (Year
Ended March 31, 1991)
19.   Memorandum and Articles of Association of National Investment Company Limited
(Incorporated the 14th day of January 1975)
20.   National Investment Bank of Jamaica Annual Report 1989
21.   National Investment Bank of Jamaica Limited, Financial Statements (Year Ended
March 1991)
Financial
22.   1989 JPSCo. Electricity Tariff Study by RCG/Hagler, Bailly, Inc. (December
1990)
23.   1991 Electricity Tariff Adjustment Study by RCG/Hagler, Bailly, Inc. (July 1991)
24.  JPSCo. Action Plan (1992/93 - 1996/97)



IBRD 23863
78'00'                                                  77' 30'                                               77-00'                                                  76-30'
JAMAICA
ENERGY SECTOR DEREGULATION
. 2, i {! AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT                                         AV                 t=NO
-1138 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
-           69RI  kv TRANSMISSION LINES
- -- -- -                  UP kV LINE REBUILD
IH30E                                                                                                                                                                                    0     SUBSTATIONS -             30
MARA PM                                                   E     NPOWER PLANTS.
S  HYDRO
U                  U     ~~~~~~~~~~DIESEL
A                   ~~    ~~~~~~A STEAM
OPA                                                                            .OBAY
0RA
SE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
MAGOOnY ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOYE                                                          YSN
CUBA                                                                                                                                                                                                              KIGSO   HARBOURf CKOR 
MEBICO  J HER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'NMCIAI-
MEXICO  CU8A   IO1ERB40NYMUS/, C8'                     HUNTS BAY COMELSTION TURBINE PLANT
cr H ELIZE  JAMAICA    HAITI1                                                                                                                                                                                 EUrN     AND ROCKFORT DIESEl PLANT LOCATION
J   :/       HONDURAS                                                                                                        .                                                                                 COMBUSNTEON                   DIESEFLO
~~~~~*     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                                           TULTINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b AE
3E1{ NICARAGUA                                                C osr ,b b en rI                                                                             ID        25,,       S,0 KLOHntRS
3 8    CE, 5-                                                                                    BROADfE,                        MNY PEN LHOPEEZUEIA  .                                                                                    KllOMEII!
o      RICA         o, COIOM81A    ?     ,U- 77-30                                                                                                     77-00                                    MIVR
THE A    AHAMAS
CUB   LOMBIA    C     7BD                                                     7KINGSTON___________                                                                                                                    HARBOUR______
MEXICO  REP.                                                                                                                                                HUNTS 8AY COMBUSTION TURBINE PLANT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UN lE



