Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3502 JM
      (Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED
                      Dated October 21, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3502 JM
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JAMAICA PUBLIC
SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED (JPSCo.).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that JPSCo. agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JPSCo., a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to JPSCo.
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS JPSCo., in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "Licence" means
the All Island Electric License dated August 31, 1978, granted to
JPSco. by the Borrower and includes all amendments thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. JPSCo. declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B.1 and C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts
B.1 and C of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works and consultants' services
required for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. JPSCo. shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B.1 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. JPSCo. shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, JPSCo. shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) JPSCo. shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
B.1 and C of the Project and the carrying out of the Corporate
Action Plan, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   JPSCo. shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts B.1 and C of the Project and the carrying out of the Corporate
Action Plan, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by JPSCo. of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Except as the Bank and JPSCo. shall otherwise
agree, JPSCo. shall transfer the operation and maintenance of the
gas turbine installed under Part B.1 of the Project to a privately-
owned company under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank as
soon as practicable after the installation.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of JPSCo.
      Section 3.01. JPSCo. shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
Page  3
engineering, public utility and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. JPSCo. shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. JPSCo. shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. Except as JPSCo. and the Bank may otherwise
agree pursuant to the privatization strategy adopted in accordance
with Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement, JPSCo. shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets related to generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
      Section 3.05. JPSCo. shall carry out the Corporate Action
Plan, shall review annually with the Borrower and the Bank its
performance against the parameters set forth in said Plan, and shall
take corrective measures acceptable to the Bank to remedy any
shortcomings in performance.
      Section 3.06. JPSCo. shall provide to the Bank by July 31,
1992 a copy of its study on a modified tariff structure for the
Bank's review and comments.
      Section 3.07. JPSCo. shall, by December 1, 1992, update its
1989 marginal cost study (as updated in 1991) with the assistance of
consultants whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable
to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) JPSCo. shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   JPSCo. shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
JPSCo. shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary action
(including tariff adjustments) to: (i) maintain prices for the sale
of electricity that on average will be consistent with the long-run
Page  4
marginal cost of electricity, as such long-run marginal cost shall
be determined on the basis of a methodology and assumptions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) produce revenues sufficient to
yield on the net value of fixed assets in operation, as revalued in
accordance with Section 4.08 of this Agreement, an annual rate of
return of not less than 8% for each fiscal year.
      (b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:
            (i)    the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
                   shall be calculated by dividing JPSCo.'s net
                   income from operations for that year by the
                   average net value of fixed assets in operation
                   during that year;
           (ii)    the term "net income from operations" means
                   gross operating revenues from the provision of
                   electric power less all operating, administra-
                   tive and overhead expenses including adequate
                   maintenance, straight line depreciation computed
                   in accordance with the License and taxes (if
                   any) other than taxes on income but without
                   deduction of interest and other charges on debt;
                   and
          (iii)    the term "average net value of fixed assets in
                   operation" means one-half of the sum of: (A) the
                   value of JPSCo.'s gross fixed assets in opera-
                   tion less accumulated depreciation calculated on
                   a straight-line basis in accordance with the
                   License for various categories of fixed assets,
                   all as determined (in accordance with methods of
                   valuation and revaluation acceptable to the
                   Bank) at the beginning of the year in question;
                   plus (B) the value of JPSCo.'s gross fixed
                   assets in operation as so determined less
                   accumulated depreciation as so calculated at the
                   end of the year in question; provided, however,
                   that if a major asset is brought into operation
                   during the year, the value of such asset shall
                   be included in the foregoing computation in
                   respect of that part of the year during which
                   such asset shall have been in operation.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
JPSCo. shall not incur any long-term debt unless JPSCo.'s net
revenue for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence, or for a later twelve-month period ending before the
date of such incurrence, whichever is greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all of JPSCo.'s long-term indebtedness
than outstanding (including the long-term debt to be incurred).
      (b)   For the purpose of this Section:
            (i)    the term "long-term debt" means any debt
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred,
                   including any debt represented by bonds;
           (ii)    debt shall be deemed to have been incurred: (A)
                   under a loan contract or agreement, on the date
                   the loan contract or agreement providing for
                   such debt is entered into; and (B) under a
                   guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee is entered into;
          (iii)    the term "net revenue" means gross revenue from
                   all sources adjusted to take account of power
                   rates in effect at the time of calculation even
                   though they were not in effect during the twelve
                   consecutive months to which such revenue
Page  5
                   related, less operating and administrative
                   expenses, including provision for taxes payable,
                   if any, but before provision for depreciation,
                   deferred taxes, investment tax credits and
                   interest and other charges on debt;
           (iv)    the term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of amortization (including
                   sinking fund contributions, if any), interest
                   and other charges on debt; and
            (v)    whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
                   currency of Jamaica debt payable in another
                   currency such valuation shall be made on the
                   basis of the rate of exchange at which such
                   other currency is obtainable by JPSCo., at the
                   time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
                   servicing such debt, or, if such other currency
                   is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
                   that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
      Section 4.04. JPSCO. shall not at any time incur any overdraft
or any debt maturing by its terms on demand or for a period of less
than one year if the total sum of any overdrafts and such debts of
JPSCo. at the date of such incurrence would exceed one-fifth of
JPSCo.'s total operating expenses during the period of twelve months
immediately preceding such debt or overdraft, except that for fiscal
year 1993 the sum of overdrafts and such short-term debts shall not
exceed one-fifth of JPSCo.'s total operating expenses during the
last three months of fiscal year 1992 multiplied by four. For the
purposes of this Section the term "total operating expenses" means
the sum of all expenses related to all JPSCo.'s operations,
including: (i) maintenance and administration but not depreciation
and other non-cash operating charges; (ii) interest and other
charges on debt but not interest financed under a loan contract;
(iii) repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, if any);
(iv) all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; (v) all cash dividends
and other cash distributions of surplus; (vi) increase in net
working capital other than cash (defined as the difference between
currency assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of
each fiscal year); and (vii) any other cash outflows other than
capital expenditures (the term "capital expenditures" defined as all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest
charged to construction, related to operations) related to JPSCo.'s
operations.
      Section 4.05. JPSCo. shall not, during the period of execution
of the Project, undertake any major works or acquire any new assets,
not included in the Project, unless the Bank shall have been
furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing: (a) that
the undertaking of such major works or acquisition of such new
assets is technically and economically justified; and (b) that
JPSCo. has a sound financial plan for the undertaking of such major
works or the acquisition of such new assets. For the purposes of
this Section the term "major works" or "new assets" shall mean any
works or new fixed assets involving expenditures exceeding the
equivalent of three percent of the value of JPSCo.'s gross fixed
assets in operation.
      Section 4.06. JPSCo. shall duly perform all covenants,
agreements and obligations to be performed by it under the License.
      Section 4.07. JPSCo. shall take all steps necessary or
desirable on its part to maintain at all times no more than sixty
days of electricity billings owed by the Borrower outstanding and
unpaid. All receivables from the Borrower's National Water
Commission outstanding as of May 31, 1992 shall be converted into a
30-month loan on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 4.08. JSPCo. shall, in accordance with methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank, revalue annually, or at such other
times as the Bank and JSPCo. shall determine, JPSCo.'s gross fixed
Page  6
assets in operation.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of JPSCo. thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify JPSCo. thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For JPSCo.:
            Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited
            Attention: Chief Executive/Managing Director
            6 Knutsford Boulevard
            P.O. Box 54
            Kingston, Jamaica
            Fax:                           Telex:
                   (809)968-3337             JAMSERV 2180
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of JPSCo., or by JPSCo. on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Chairman or Chief Executive/Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the Chairman or the Chief Executive/Managing Director
shall designate in writing, and JPSCo. shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
Page  7
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                         JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED
                         By /s/ Earl Richards
                                         Authorized Representative
