Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
C2 / 9Sc s0' -S
Report No. P-4802-MAG
MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
ILNENITE MINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
May 25, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit    -   Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00          =    FMG 1,273 (May 2, 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS
BRGM   -    Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et M1ni;res ('runce)
DGM    -    Direction des Mines et de la Geologie
MIEM   -   Ministere de l'Industrie, de l'Energie et des Mines
MM     -    QIT - Madagascar Minerals Ltd. et Cie.
OMNIS  -    Office Militaire National des Industries Strategiques
QIT    -   QIT-Fer et Titane Inc. (Canada)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR BOFmCL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
ILMENITE MINING ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers          Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:       Office Militaire National des Industries Strategiques
(OMNIS).
Amounts            SDR 6.2 million  (US$8.55 million).
Term:s             Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Onlendina Terms:  The government would make the proceeds of the credit
available to OMNIS as an advance and shall ensure that
OMNIS shall make available such funds as its contribution
to the Joint-Venture for the carrying out of the Project.
Upon the final decision of the partners as to whether to
proceed with the development of the ilmenite mine,
associated facilities and infrastructure, the Borrower and
OM0IS shall decide on the terms and conditions of
arrangements for settlement of the advance, which shall be
satisfactory to the'Association.
Financing Plan:   OMNIS               US$   .2 million
QIT                US$  7.4 million
IDA                USS  8.55 million
TOTAL              US$ 16.15 million
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff ADDraisals   None
Maps               IBRD 20699
|of their ofdicial uties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank autborztion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO MADAGASCAR
FOR AN ILMENITE MINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
engineering credit to Madagascar for SDR 6.2 million (US$8.55 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and help finance an engineering
project. QIT, the private partner, would make an equity contribution of
SDR 5.3 million (US$7.4 million equivalent).
2.       B&ckground. Madagascar is wi11 known for its wide variety of
mineral deposits as would be expected in view of its geological continuity
with the southern African continent. While it is best known for the
production of chromite, graphite and mica, there have been a multiplicity
of other minerals produced in the country, i.e. gold, industrial beryl,
monazite, garnet, feldspar, kaolin, barytes, quartz and the full range of
carbonate rocks (marble, limestone, calcite). There has also been
continuous production of ornamental and semiprecious stones. In addition
many other mineral resources have been identified: rare earth metals,
ilmenite, zircon, bauxite, iron ore, nickel, copper, platinum group metals,
lead, molybdenum, manganese and tin. However, this vast potential is
largely untapped and so far the valu' of mineral production has not been
significant in the overall economic performance of Madagascar; it currently
contributes just over three percent of export revenues (down from five
percent in 1978). The mining sector, like the rest of the industrial
sector, has been adversely affected between the mid-1970s and early 1980s
by interventionist economic policies of the Government characterized by
nationalizations, price controls, overvaluation of the Malagasy franc and
centralized rationing of foreign exchange.
3.       The mining sector is at a critical stage where transition from a
sector with a very restricted investment climate to an open sector
welcoming private investment, both local and foreign, should be supported.
The proposed engineering credit would be used to prepare a large-scale
mineral sands project to be developed as a joint-venture by Office
Militaire National des Industries Strategiques (OMNIS), the principal
Government enterprise for mineral development and mining operations, and
QIT. The latter, a Canadian wholly-owned subsidiary of BP/Minerals, is a
major player in the titanium dioxyde slag industry controlling about 40
percent of the world market.  OMNIS and QIT have formed an unincorporated
joint-venture (OMNIS 51 percent, QIT 49 percent) with QIT the operator.
The proposed OMNIS/QIT ilmenite mining project concept is to produce about
600,000 tons of ilmenite (used primarily for the production of titanium
dioxide pigment, the major pigment in nearly all white paints), and smaller
quantities of the co-products rutile (main source material for titanium
metal which is widely used in high performance aircraft), zircon (the
principal source of the element zirconium used mainly in foundries,



-2-
refractories and ceramics), and monasite (used in petroleum catalysts,
metallurgy, electronics, optical and special glasses, magnets). The
proposed operation will require careful planning to avoid long-term
environmental damage to the areas being mined which include one of the
remaining tracts of littoral tropical rain forests.
4.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed ilmenite mining
project is central to Madagascar medium-term development strategy which
aims to diversify exports and encourage private sector participation. The
proposed engineering credit, which would finance OMNIS's share of the
engineering phase of the ilmenite mining project, would allow a more active
participation by OMNIS during the preparation stage of the main project.
The credit, by enhancing collaboration between OMNIS,. QIT and the Bank,
would facilitate preparation of the ilmenite mining project. Successful
implementation of the project will help demonstrate to the outside world
that the development of the mineral potential of Madagascar can now be
realized with the participation of private foreign investment. It would
help establish the credibility of Madagascar for major new investments in
mining as well as other ssetors. In view of the relative importance of this
new mining venture, IDA participation would also provide an avenue for
linking the project to country policy and institutional reform strategy,
setting an example of a sound project in the areas of management,
operational responsibilities, fiscal regime, environmental protection
and social impact. IDA's involvement would ensure that the delicate
environmental questions raised by the project are properly addressed in the
context of the comprehensive environmental action plan under preparatioa by
the Government (with IDA's assistance).
5.       Proiect Objectives.  The main objective of the proposed
engineering project is to help OMNIS carry out its share of Phase III of
project preparation. In accordance with the terms of the joint-venture
agreement which was signed in March 1986, QIT provided all the financing
for Phase I (exploratory work to confirm the quantity, grades and product
qualities of the ore body amounting to US$2.2 million and covering the May
1986 to February 1987 period) and Phase II (detailed drilling work in order
to select a mining plan for 20 years and pilot-scale plant to produce heavy
mineral concentrates to provide data for a full-scale plant design
amounting to US$12 million and covering the period March 1987-December
1988). Phase III, which would be partly financed by this engineering
credit, is described below.
6.       Project Description.  In order to assist preparation of the
ilmenite mining project, the engineering credit would finance OMNIS's share
of the following work: (a) setting up of a Wet Pilot and Mineral Separation
Pilot Plant to optimize and confirm flowsheets developed during Phase II;
(b) completion of basic engineering for the following facilities: dredge
and concentrator plant, mineral separation plant, power plant, dock/harbor;
(c) completion of the environmental impact study. Also included would be
some complementary drilling, ore body delineation and limited
infrastructure development, i.e. road and bridge construction to have
access to the area which is the likely location of the mineral processing
and product facility, market studies, and product/pilot plant test work. If
the project is judged economically and financially viable, the engineering
credit would also finance preparation of bid documents, prequalification of



-3-
contractors as needed and evaluation of bids. In addition to the above
elements, the project scope includes OMNIS internal costs, to minitor and
promote the project, technical assistance for 0MNIS, and the refinancing of
a Project Preparation Fund advance (PPF) which had been granted to the
Government in October 1987 to prepare the ilmenite mining project. The
total cost of the engineering project is estimated at US$16.2 million
equivalent (exclusive of taxes, from which the project is esempt), of which
US$15.2 million equivalent represent foreign costs (94 percent of the
total). An amount of US$8.55 would be financed by the proposed credit,
including US$750,000 for the refinancing of the PPF and US$700,000 for
technical assistance to OMNIS, monitoring and follow-up activities. The
cost estimate is based on 1988 prices. Price contingencies based on an
annual worldwide inflation rate of 5 percent and physical contingencies of
15 percent of all costs are included. The Government would make the
proceeds of the credit available to OMNIS as an advance and would ensure
that OMNIS make such funds available as its contribution to the joint-
venture for the carrying out of the Project. Upon the final decision of
the partners of the Joint-Venture Agreement as to whether to proceed with
the development of the ilmenite mine, associated facilities and
infrastructure, the Borrower and OMNIS would decide on the terms and
conditions of arrangements for settlement of the advance, which would be
satisfactory to the Association. QIT would finance both foreign and local
project costs through its equity contribution. Within the framew^_k of the
unincorporated joint-venture, QIT-Madagasear Minerals, which is registered
and domiciled in Madagascar and which is the operator for the joiixt-
venture, will be the operator for the proposed engineering credit. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts
and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbuzoement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project pro-casing
events and the status of Bank Group operations in Madagascar are given in
Schedules C and D respectively. A map is attached. The following
technical annexes are also attacheds Annex I, project background
informations Madagascar Mining Sector Development Issues, Objectives and
Strategy; Project Formulation and Preparation; The Impact of Madagascar
1lmenite Mining Project on the World Market; Annex II, Environmental
issues; Annex III, Project Execution.
7.       Agreed Actions. The Government/OMNIS have agreed on the following
actions: (a) a legal agreement between OMNIS, QIT, and QIT-Madagascar
Minerals as operator for the joint-venture acceptable to IDA, spelling out
the specific obligations of the partners to the joint-venture and of the
operator for the carrying out of the engineering credit. Effectiveness of
this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit;
(b) IDA approval of the terms of reference for an environmental impact
study would be a condition of effectiveness.
8.       Benefits.  Heavy mineral sand reserves in Madagascar are amongst
the largest in the world and the country stands to become a major source of
these minerals. There are strong indications that exploitation of these
heavy mineral sands is a financially and economically viable proposition.
The project would require an investment of approximately US$130 million and
would generate about US$40 million per year in gross foreign exchange
earnings. In addition, it would provide employment and stimulate develop-
ment of the Southeast region of Madagascar. The engineering credit would



-4-
enable OMNIS to become a more effective partner in project preparation, and
it would advance the project implementation schedule while ensuring
adequate consideration of envircnmental issues.
9.       Risks. The major risk associated with the project is a change in
corporate strategy of QIT or its parent company BP/Minerals. Market or
political risks could also affect the attractiveness of the deposit. The
Government's professional approach to the development of the ilmenite
mining project, as shown by its request for the engineering credit to
ensure satisfactory preparation, should reduce the political risk. Market
risks are not considered high because the titanium dioxide pigment market
has been experiencing a significant recovery since 1984 after 10 years of
low growth. Plants worldwide are now working at full capacity and a
medium-to long-term growth rate of 2-3 percent per year is forecast. Last,
there is an inherent risk in the execution of a major project in a country
with minimal infrastrn'e.ure and scarce resources.  The potential benefits
outweigh the risks discnssed above.
10.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 25, 1988



-5-
Schedule A
MADAGASCAR
ILNENITE MINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
1/
Estimated Ccsts                          Local       Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)--------
1.       Basic Engineerings                 -          6.3          6.3
Wet Plant/Dry Plant
Dock/Harbor
Dredge
Power Plant
Infrastructure
2.       Complementary Drilling and       0.2          0.9          1.1
Orebody Delineation
3.       Logistical Support               0.2          0.5          0.7
Activities
4.       Market Studies                   -            0.2          0.2
5.       Product/Pilot Plant              -            0.3          0.3
Testwork
6.       Heavy Equipment and              0.3          3.2          3.5
Infrastructure Construction
Base Cost                  0.7          11.4        12.1
Physical Contineancies           0.1          1.7          1.8
Price Contingencies               -           0.6         0.6
Joint-Venture Project Cost       0.8         13.7        14.5
7.       Technical Assistance OMNIS       -            0.5          0.5
8.       ONNIS Internal Project Cost      0.2          0.2          0.4
9.       Refinancing of PPF                            0.75         0.75
Total OMNIS Cost                 0.2          1.45         1.65
Total Project Cost               1.0         15.15       16.15
Mm
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign      Total
----     (US$ million)--------
OMNIS                                      0.2          -           0.2
QIT                                         .8         6.6          7.4
IDA                                          -         8.55         8.55
Total                             1.0        15.15        16.15
wmu 



-6-
Schedule B
MUDAGASCAR
ILMUNITE MINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSBMENTS
Project Element                           Procurement Method            Total
ICB      LIB     Other          Cost
-------(US$ million)------
1.  Consultants/lasic- ngineering                         6.3*            6.3
(3.9)          (3.9)
2. Complementary Drilling and Ore Body
Delineation                                         1.1             1.1
3.  Logistical Support Activities                         0.7             0.7
4.  Market Studies                                        0.2             0.2
5.  ProductlPilot Plant Testwork                          0.3             0.3
6.  Hesvy Equipment                              3.2      0.3       ,     3.5
(3.2)                   (3.2)
7.  Consultants for OMNIS                                 0.5             0.5
(0.5)          (0.5)
8.  OWNIS - Project Promotion/                             .2              .2
Monitoring                                          (.2)            (.2)
i. Refinacing of PPF                                      0.75            0.75
(0.75)         (0.75)
Total                                        3.2     10.35           13.55
(3.2)    (5.35)         (8.55)
Note: - Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Association
- * Includes amounts for item. financed by QIT and procured under its
own procedures.
- Consultants for ONNIS and Consultants/Basic Engineering
(US$4.4 million) will be procured as per IDA guidelines.  Equipment
(US$3.2 million) will be procured by LIB because of the specialized
nature of the equipment and the l$mited number of suppliers for this
type of equipment. US$0.2 million will be spent for project
monitoring and promotion by ONIS.
Disbursements
(US$ million)
Catesory                     Amount         Percentae-
1.  Basic Engineering            3.9            1002 of foreign expenditures
2.  Heavy Equipment              3.2            100S of foreign expenditures
3. Consultants for 0NNISI        0.7           '100  of foreign expenditures
Project Promotion/
Monitoring
4. Refinancing of PPF            0.75
Note:  To expedite disbursements, a special account to be maintained in foreign
currency will be opened in an institution acceptable to IDA. The initial
amount of the deposit into the account would be US$1.8 million.
Disbursement will be fully documented except that statement of
expenditures will be used for contracts costing less than-US$50,000.
Estimated IDA Disbu,rsements                    IDA Fiscal Year
89        90
---     (US$ million)-
Annual                                            4.45       4.1
Cumulative                                        4.45       8.55



-7-
Schedule C
MADAGASCAR
ILMENITE MINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processinx Events
a)   Time taken to prepare:              Eight months
b)   Prepared by:                        QIT/OMNIS with IDA assistance
c)   First IDA mission:                  February 1987
d)  Appraisal mission departure:         January 1988
e)   Negotiations:                       Hay 17-18, 1988
f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:      November 1988



- 8 -                      Schedule D
Page I of 2
SrATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
A. STATSEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1988)
Loan or                                                                Amount in US$ Million
Credit    Year
swmber    Signed        Borrower                                      Bank    IDA (1) Undisbursed
Six Loans Fully Disbursed and                                          38.77
Twenty five Credits Fully Disbursed                                            281.56
1155     1981 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Accounting & Audit Training              11.50      0.51
1211     1982 GOM IFOFIFAMA        Village Livestock II                     15.00    10.05
1298     1983 OMNIS                 He#vy Oil Exploration II                11.50      3.15
1337     1983 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Alaotra Rice Intensification             18.00      9.11
F 004-    1984 MTP & MTRT            Sixth Highway                           20.00      2.35
F 008     1984 GOM IHASYMA           Cotton Development                       9.90      1.05
1391     1984 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Sixth Highway                            25.00      3.37
1433     1984 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Cotton Development                        7.90      0.89
1497     1984 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Urban Development                        12.80    12.26
A 007     1985 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Industrial Assistance                    20.00      3.32
1541     1985 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Industrial Assistance                    40.00    13.51
1589     1985 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Irrigation Rehabilitation                12.00    12.35
1661     1986 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Accounting & Management Training         10.30    12.91
1691     1986 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Agricultural Sector Adjustment           20.00    14.30
A 016     1986 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Agricultural Sector Adjustment           33.00    25.94
1694     1986 RNCFM                 Third Railway                           12.00    10.93
1709     1986 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   2nd Agricultural Institutions            10.00    10.18
A 0032     1987 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Industry & Trade Policy Adj.             67.00    44.97
15260     1987 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Cyclone Rehabilitation                   15.00     0.76
15261     1987 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Cyclone Rehabilitation                   10.00     6.88
1752     1987 G00  IDACMM AND SEPT  Port Rehabilitation                     16.00    16.51
1787     1987 G0M IJRPAMAIMIEHIMPAREnergy I                                 25.00    27.47
1804     1987 G0M /BTM              2nd Agricultural Credit                 10.00    10.60
1834     1987 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Industry & Trade Policy Adj.             16.00    10.84
** 1378     1988 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR   Fovest Management & Protection            7.00      7.08
Subtotal active projectas       0.00   454.90   271.29
Total less caeellationss                            38.77   736.46
of which has been repaid                          8.81      6.48
Total outstanding mndl. undisbursed:                 29.96   729.98 (2)
Amount sold t                                         0.00     6.86
of which has been repaid                     -    0.00      6.86
Total now held by Bank and IDA (1) :                 23.76   561.13 (2)
Total undisbursed s                                   0.00   271.29 (2)
** Not yet effective.
(1) US$ amounts for credits are computed at rate of negotiations dates.
(2) Sum of Total now held by IDA and Total Undisbursed Is higher than Total Outstanding
because of depreciation of the USS.



Schedule U
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investmgng  (March 31. 1988)
Loan         Equity        Total
----------(USS Million)---------
.1987 Sotema - Textile Mill et Majunga       11.000      0.299      11.299
1980 Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in            1.250      -            1.250
Antananarivo
1983 Pecheries de Nossi-Be                   2.570      0.099        2.669
1985 Cotona, S.A. at Antairab.               9.563      0.184        9.747
1987 Satema-Textile Mill                     3.744      0.010        3.754
Total                              28.127      0.592      28.719
Less:  Repayments, sales cancellations
and exchange adjustments                     8.469                   8.469
Total commitments now held
by IFC                             19.658      Q.592      20.250
Total undisbursed                   3.385      0.583       3.968



- 10 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 14
MADAGASCAR
ILMENITE MINING ENGINEERING PROJECT
A. SECTORAL CONTEXT 1
Sector Development Issues. Oblectives and Strategy
1.       Madagascar is well known for its diverse suite of mineral deposits
as would be expected in view of its geological continuity with the southern
African continent. While it is best known for the production of chromite,
graphite and mica, there have been a multiplicity of other minerals
produced in the country. In the metallic mineral group, production of
chromite, gold, industrial beryl, monasite, has been recorded. In the
industrial mineral sector there has been production of graphite, mica,
garnet, feldspar, kaolin, barytes, quarts and the full range of
carbonate rocks (marble, limestone, calcite, etc.). There has also been
continuous production of ornamental and semiprecious stones. In addition,
many other mineral resources have been identified: rare earth metals,
ilmenite, zircon, bauxite, iron ore, nickel, copper, platinum group
metals, lead, molybdenum, manganese and tin.
2.       The value of mineral production has not been significant in the
overall economic performance of Madagascar and it currently contributes
just over three percent of export revenues (down from five percent in
1978). Some 1,500 persons are directly employed in the sector while
perhaps another 3,000-4,000 derive at least a part of their income from
small-scale mining activities. The mining sector, like the rest of the
industrial sector, has been adversely affected during the 1970s and early
1980s by the interventionist economic policies of the Government
characterized by nationalizations, price controls, overvaluation of thG.
Malagasy franc and severe rationing of foreign exchange.
3.       KRAOMA, the state-owned and controlled chromite firm is, in terms
of export receipts, the most important industrial mining operation in
Madagascar. The French consortium, Compa nLe Miniare d'Andriamena
(COMINA), which had developed the chromite mines in the late 19609 was
nationalized in 1976. Production of saleable chromite ore, which was
200,000 tons at the time of nationalization, decreased to less than
50,000 tons in 1982 due to management, technical and marketing problems.
Since 1982 some improvements have been achieved and in 1986, 83,000 tons
of marketable ore was produced. Today, the operation of KRAOMQ is facing
severe difficulties because of increased  costs. A study of the strategic
options available to the company, funded with a grant from the US Trade
and Development Program, is assessing RRAOMA's present situation within a
global industry context and will recommend strategies to enable KRA0MA's
survival and viability.
1/ A review of the Malagasy mining sector was presented in "HMmo$re sur le
Secteur Minier a Madagascar' (Report No.6782-HAG, Industry and Energy
Operations Division, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa
Region, dated November 30, 1987)



- 11 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
4.       Graphite which,  in terms of export receipts is second to
chromite, is produced by five private producers. Over the last ten years,
production has been stable. It appears that the Malagasy graphite industry
is quite profitable. In view of the app4cent profitability of the
industry, the large reserves of high grade graphite and the established
acceptability and desirabilty of Malagasy graphite, there seems to be
scope to increase the output of the existing mines. However, the
restricted availability of foreign exchange during the period under review,
and the fear of nationalization resulted in an unfavorable investment
climate for even minimal investment.
5.       Quartz production,  dominated by small-scale private operators has
increased rapidly since the mid-1970s from less than 200 tons to about
1,500-2,000 tons per year, with over 99 percent of the quartz being
produced to supply the market for high purity feedstock for the production
of special glasses. At present, there are many restraints to expansion of
capacity ranging from inadequate access to the principal producing areas in
northeast Madagascar to the inability of the small producers to obtain
either credit or foreign exchange for the purchase of equipment.
6.        Recorded sold production, dominated by small-scale private
operators or cooperatives has decreased steadtly. The apparent poor
performance of the sector is largely due to the increased smuggling which
resulted from the Government requirement (until September 1987) that
Malagasy gold be sold to a government agency at an official purchase price
in FMG stgnificantly below world price.
7.       Mining is regulated by the Ministry of Industry,  Energy. and
Minini (MIEM) through the Directorate of Mines and Geologv (DMG). The DMG
is administratively divided into three services or departments, namely:
i) the Service de la Giologie; ii) the Service des Pro1ets Miniers and,
iii) the Service de l'Administration Miniere. DMG appears to be
adinistering the sector in a competent manner despite the paucity of
professional staff and physical resources. Activities of the various
departments are well documented in a timely manner and the work program is
executed to acceptable standards. As in most developing countries, there
is a lack of physical resources which impedes the efficiency of the DMG.
For example, there is a shortage of vehicles to carry out field projects
and a shortage of reagents for laboratory test work. Technical assistance
to DMH with both economic and geology training and with the strengthening
of the physical resource base would provide major benefits to Madagascar in
the shortimediu terms.
8.       The National Military Office for Strategic Industries (OMNIS),
created in 1975 is an autonomous agency under the direct authority of the
President. OMNIS is responsible for the exploration of petroleum,
bituminous sandstones and radioactive minerals as well as the execution of
other strategic projects including the ilmenite mining project. OMNIS also
supervises two state-owned enterprises, XRAOMA and SECREN, a ship-
building and repair enterprise. In 1986 ONIS entered into a joint-venture



- 12 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 14
agreement with a private Canadian firm QIT for the exploration,
exploitation and marketing of titanium-bearing mineral sands on the
southeast coast of Madagascar (OMNIS 51 percent, QIT 49 percent) with
QIT the operator.
9.       The investment climate and legislation for the sector is
established by the Investment Code (1985), and the Mining Code which is
currently under revision. Both documents have as one of their principal
objectives the stimulation of private investment, both national and
foreign, in the mining sector. The new investment code makes provision
for a lcontrat de partenariat" (partnership contract) whereby a joint-
venture is set up with the State, the various incentives being subject to
negotiation. Since the partnership contract is subject to legislative
ratification, negotiated advantages have statutory force which contributes
to their stability. On the whole, compared to the Charte des Entreprises
Socialistes which was adopted by the Government in 1973, the new
investment code represents a significant effort to induce the private
sector to cooperate with the State. The principal problems with the
legislation appear to be the lack of clear cut rules under which investors
are able to operate in the sector. There is still a lack of automaticity
for receipt of fiscal incentives under the Investment Code and the Mining
Code has many discretionary provisions. Although these two Codes do not
remove all ambiguities from the conditions offered to investors, they are
major steps forward. In the mining sector, potential investors must have,
in addition to an appropriate legislative and fiscal framework, ready
access to the geological data base, which is not presently the case. MIEN
has a considerable mass of geological data, but most of it is not
catalogued and there are no facilities for potential investors to obtain
copies of data.
10.      The mining sector is now at a critical stage where transition from
a sector with a very restricted investment climate to an open sector
velcoming private investment, both local and foreign, is feasible and
should be supported. The geological framework of the island suggests that
private investment could be attracted and the Government should now select
options to encourage this. Madagascar has three princival priorities in
the mining sector. They ares
(i)   to establish the administrative, legal, fiscal and
geological framework necessary to attract investment
in the exploration for and development of its mineral
resources. For example, the legislation should be
modified to provide automaticity for potential
investors with regard to at least the minimum fiscal
incentives;
(ii)   to preserve the earning potential of the sector by
managing efficiently government enterprises in the
sector and improving relationships with private
investors both foreign and local. The role of the
Government as a partner in several on-going
exploration/feasibility ventures with private sector
and foreign investors is currently being exercised in
the ilmenite mining project and in a gold project with



- 13 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 14
the French Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et
Minieres (BRGM). The adequate representation of
Government interests in the initial negotiations for
joint-ventures is a most important and responsible
task, as it is at this time that the ground rules for
the mineral development are set; and
(iii)   to direct resources to those projects most likely to
benefit the national economy in the short to medium
term. In Madagascar, this can be interpreted to mean
projects for relatively high value commodities in
areas where the necessary infrastructure already
exists. The Government is becoming increasingly aware
of this as witnessed by the downgrading of priority
for the iron and bauxite projects and the high
priority currently being given to mineral sands on the
southeast coast, gold and quartz.
11.      The outlook for inereasing mineral production is particularly good
because of the proposed large-scale titanium-bearing mineral sands project to
be developed as a joint-venture by-NIS and QIT, a Canadian subsidiary of
BPlMinerals which is a major player in the titanium dioxyde slag industry
controlling about 40 percent of the world market. The proposed OMNISIQIT
Ilmenite Mining Project to produce concentrates for export from the Fort-
Dauphin area of southeast Madagascar is the most significant new mining
activity under consideration in Madagascar for over 20 years and is the first
major new venture in the sector with either foreign or private participation
for some years.
B. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PREPARATION
Proiect Oriain
12.      The presence of heavy mineral sand deposits in southeastern
Madagascar was established in the 1950s and commercial quantities of monazite
were produced in that area during early 19609. Detailed exploration campaigns
for heavy mineral sand deposits were conducted by a number of private
companies, including US Steel, in the early 1970s along the eastern coast of
Madagascar. These programs established the presence of significant reserves
of ilmenite as well as commercially important quantities of zircon and
monazite.  The US Steel program conducted in 1974-75 had outlined a 25
million metric tons reserve of low-alkali secondary ilmenite in the southeast
corner of Madagascar,  in the Fort-Dauphin area. QIT  acquired US Steel
geological data and associated feasibility studies and, in 1986, set up a
joint-venture with OMNIS to explore, develop and market the titanium-bearing
sands on the east coast.



- 14 _
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 14
13.    The Government of Madagascar requested Bank involvement in the
proposed ilmenite mmnmni proiect during a 1987 mining sector review mission in
Madagascar. The mission concluded that the Bank could play a key role in
bringing to fruition this Important and attractive project for Madagascar and
in providing technical assistance to OMNIS for project preparation and
monitoring. In May 1987, representatives of the Government of Madagascar,
OMNIS, QIT, and Its parent company visited the Bank and made a presentation
on the overall project schedule and goals. The Government indicated that it
would welcome from the Bank not only financing to the OMNISIQIT project but
also technical assistance. Ways in which financing and technical assistance
could be made available to OMNIS were then reviewed. Subsequently in July
1987, the Government addressed a formal request for a PPF advance to finance
consultancy services to assist OMNIS prepare, evaluate and monitor the
project. In September 1987, a mining sector mission held discussions with
O0NIS in Madagascar and reached agreement on the work to be financed. The PPF
amounting to $750,000 provides inter alia general assistance to OMNIS for
consultant services in the areas of mining, financial and economic analysis,
organization, legal affairs and marketing. The PPF was granted in October
1987. The question of a possible engineering credit was Initially discussed at
the May 1987 meeting referred to above, during the September 1987 mission and
at a meeting held in Montreal in December 1987 between representatives of
OMNIS, QIT and the Bank. Following an official request of the Government In
January 1988, the engineering credit was appraised in JanuarylFebruary 1988.
Status of Proiect Preparation
14.      Phase I (evaluation phase of the exploration period) of project
preparation (May 1986 to February 1987) financed entirely by QIT
(US$2.2 million) focused on determining the quantity, grades and product
qualities of the ore body. Moreover, exploratory drilling revealed additional
reserves of heavy mineral-bearing sands underlying the reserves previously
Identified by US Steel. Drilling work of the whole deposit had to be repeated
to establish an accurate picture of the lower deposit. Although this work
delayed the project by several months, it resulted in probable geological
reserves of ilmenite being increased from 25 to 60 million tons. As work
continues in Madagascar it Is expected that estimates of probable geological
reserves will be enlarged beyond 60 million tons of ilmenite. Heavy mineral
sand reserves in Madagascar are now considered amongst the largest in the
world. In addition to ilmenite, the deposit contains zircon, rutile and
monazite, in the approximate ratios 60 ilmenite: 3 zircon: 3 rutile: 1
monazite. A preliminary project feasibility study was also prepared and
sufficient process flowsheet definition provided to permit preparation of a
capital estimate within a 30 percent range and a preliminary economic
assessment for the proposed operation.



- 15 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 14
15.      The results vere encouraging enough to justify proceeding with
Phase II of the project (feasibility phase of the exploration period) which
started in March 1987 and is expected to be completed in November/December
1988. The on-going work under Phase II includest
(i) completion of all drilling at the Mandena sector and
confirmation drilling at the Ste. Luce deposit in the
Fort-Dauphin area;
(ii)   definition and evaluation of the Xandona deposit;
(iii)   preliminary mine planning for a 20 year period;
(iv)   production of test samples by the Wet Pilot Plant at
Mandena;
(v)   closed circuit testing at site to enable initial
spiral selection to be made;
(vi) further testing of mineral separation process to firm
up prelimimnry flowsheet and equipment selection for
a pilot plant;
(vii) environmental assessment;
(viii)   gathering of necessary geographic and marine data to
comnence study for selection of best loadinglshipping
location;
(ix) updating of prefeasibility estimate and economics;
(x)   obtaining of Phase III approval. Requesting quotes
for Phase III activities and selection of engineering
f_ims.
16.     Activities under Phase II are proceeding steadily. This program is
expected to be completed by the end of 1988 and will cost about
US$12.8 million compared to an original budget estimate of US$7.4 million as a
result of the additional drilling to delineate the lower ore body. By the end
of Phase II, QIT will have invested about US$15 million compared to the
original budget estimate of about US$10 million. Satisfactory results would
lead to approval of Phase III Which will start in January 1989 through March
1990. This phase, described below (para. 18), will include the completion of
preliminary and basic engineering, and a revised capital cost estimate. This
is the phase which will be ,artlY financed by the iroposed enftineerint credit.



- 16 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 14
17.      Phase IV (mine development period) which will follow completion of
Phase III and a decision by the partners to proceed with the project would
include procurement and detailed engineering followed by construction,
commissioning and start-up of the mining operation to the point where
75 percent of the designed production capacity is achieved. Phase IV will
cover the period March 1990 to April 1994 (the ewvisaged plant start-up date
is November 1992).
Project Description
18.      In order to assist preparation of the ilmenlte mining project the
engineering credit would finance OMNIS's share of the following work:
(i)   completion of preliminary and basic engineering to a
point where detailed design and tendering can
commence for the: (a) dredge and concentrator plant,
(b) mineral separation plant, (c) power plant,
(d) dock/harbor, (e) other infrastructure facilities;
(ii)   setting up of a Wet Pilot Plant and Mineral
Separation Pilot Plant to optimize and confirn
flowsheets developed during Phase II;
(iii)   preparation of a capital cost estimate and an
estimate of mine start-up and operating costs. The
capital cost estimate will be based on detailed
quantity take-offs from layouts and budget price
quotations for major equipment, in addition to
utilization of current data-bank pricing for standard
materials. The operating cost estimate will be
developed from detailed itemization of all cost
centers;
(iv)   preparation of market analysis and marketing
strategy;
(v)   complementary drilling and ore body delineation to
improve definition of mineable reserves at Mandena;
(vi)   infrastructure,  in particular road and bridge
construction for improved access to the location of
the mineral processing and product fa$ility;
(vii) completion of an environmental impact study.



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 14
19.      The total cost of Phase III  activities to be financed under the
engineering credit has been estimated at US$16.2 million equivalent including
contingencies. OMNIS has requested IDA financing for approximately
US$8.55 million. Key milestone dates in the overall project implementation
plan are as followst
-  completion of site investigation, metallurgical   December 1988
and environmental studies and update of
prefeasibility estimate and economics
-  completion of preliminarylbasic engineering        October 1989
-  approval to proceed with detailed design and       March 1990
construction
-  initial ilmenite production                        November 1992
-  75 percent production capacity achieved           April 1994
C. IMPACT OF MADAGASCAR ILMENITE MINING
PROJECT ON WORLT MARKET
Demand for Titanium Dioxide  MTiO2) Pigments
20.      Approximately 95 percent of world's annual production of titanium
minerals, goes to make white titanium dioxide pigment. It is not poisonous
and has excellent qualities of opacity and brightness. It is the major
pigment for nearly all white paint and it is also used in paper, plastics,
textiles and ceramics. The other five percent of world's annual production of
titanium minerals goes to make titanium metal. The titanium dioxide industry
has seen a substantial turn round in the past four years, after ten years of
low growth. In the 1950s and 1960s this white pigment enjoyed secure markets
which grew steadily at five percent per year world-wide and, due to the fact
that there was no real alternative to TiO2 as a pigment, its future seemed
secure. The first oil-shock terminated this outlook abruptly in 1974, when
demand for TiO2 fell 30 percent almost overnight, in line with the fall in
demand for consumer products. The next ten years saw a slow recovery, with a
second check occuring in 1980 after a further hike in oil prices. The low
growth and the fact that the industry was obliged to meet increasingly
stringent environmental controls made many producers question their continuing
participation in the TiO2 business. Some companies divested their interest in
TiO2, several old plants closed, and the construction of new plants
virtually stopped. By 1983, TiO2 demand and the available capacity to
produce it (about 2.6 million tons), were again reasonably in balance.
Pigment prices, which had fallen sharply during the oversupply years, returned
to better levels and allowed producers to improve profitability, or return



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 14
to a profit making situation. In the period from 1983 to date pigment demand
recovered significantly. In the last four years the average growth in
consumption has exceeded 5 percent in the U.S.A compared to an average annual
growth rate of 1.1 percent during the preceeding seven years.
21.      By 1986 production resources were strained and new capacity was
required once again. The first step in responding to the increased demand was
debottlenecking of existir.g capacity which could be carried out relatively
quickly and cheaply. It is believed that debottlenecking of some sort, if
only by rationalization of grades produced, was practiced by almost all the
world's major pigment plants in 1986 and 1987 and that at least 330, 000 tons
per year (TPY) of new capacity, or about 12 percent of the 1986 total will be
added to world productive capacity in the period 1986-89. It is estimated
that TiO2 demand will grow by about 2-3 percent per annum in the period
1988-93.
22.       Production of titanium dioxide pigment is split between the "sulfate
process' and 'chloride process", representing respectively 2/3 and 113 of
pigment capacity in 1983. Most of the world's chloride process capacity is
located in the U.S. at present, but through new plants and conversions of
sulfate plants growth in the less environmentally sensitive chloride route is
expected in other areas during the late 1980s and early 1990s. In the
sulfate process, ilmenite or titanium slag is reacted with sulfuric acid,
a portion of the iron sulfate formed is crystallized and removed, and the
titanium hydroxide is precipitated by hydrolysis, filtered and calcined.
In the chloride process, rutile is converted to titanium tetrachloride by
chlorination at 8500 to 9500 C in the presence of petroleum coke. Rutile is
the preferred raw material for making titanium tetrachloride, although
ilmenite and titanium slag can be used for this purpose. Titanium
tetrachloride so prepared may be used either in making pigment, or with
additional purification, for reduction to metal. For the past twenty years
chloride process pigment production has been growing rapidly, but at the same
time many sulfate process plants have been very successful.  A supplier of
TiO2 raw materials, must be concerned not only with the growth in total
demand for TiO2 pigment, but also with the proportion of the total demand
which is likely to be supplied from either the sulfate or the chloride
process. One of the advantages of low alkali TiO2 slags (the product supplied
by QIT group) is that either chloride or sulfate process plants can be
satisfactorily supplied with this product.
Chantes in the Raw Material Supply Pattern
23.      Titanium is the ninth most abundant element in the earth's crust and
there is, therefore, little question of any scarcity of this element in the
foreseeable future. What has changed over the past twenty years and will
continue to do so in future, is the relative importance of the titaniferous
feedstocks produced. The two basic ores are rutile and ilmenite and the
latter can be transformed by smelting or beneficiation into upgraded ilmenite
(UGI), of which slag and synthetic rutile (SR) are the two main types.



,FIGURE 1
TiO2 RAW MATERIAL TRENDS 1978-88
0004MT contained TiO2
1400 [-uti
i400                                                             rC'i 2 |)Synthetic
.fl                            (yJf~~~~~~~~~lmenite
Sooot   |    |         t         i        S   |  " °~~RNet f 1GI
1000                          I    l1'.
600                                  B
400
~~:    f        s        82    ~84          as        Be4



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 11 of 14
Figure I shows that over the last ten years, the proportion of
synthetic rutile and particularly of slag increased largely at the
expense of ilmenite. The key factors in explaining these trends are:
(M)   rutile reserves are being depleted.  Production will
be stable or decline and UGI (slag and synthetic
rutile) will become progressively more important for
the chloride process. This trend has already been
going on for ten years and has also been assisted by
the fact that rutile prices have tended to be
volatile. Chloride process operators have tried to
minimize their exposure to this risk by
diversification;
(ii)   sulfate process operators have,  in many instances,
moved towards higher TiO2 feedstocks by either using
pure slag or a blend of slag and ilmenite, in place
of ilmenite alone. This has given them the advantages
of higher plant throughput, and capital and
operating cost reduction, and a means of addressing,
environmental constraints, by eliminating the
production of ferrous sulfate during the process.
All these factors continue to be important and the
trend towards slag in the sulfate process is forecast
to continue;
(iii)   in the case of chloride process operators,  the use
of chloride-slag or synthetic rutile can be
approached from two directions. For plants designed
to use secondary (60 percent TiO2 plus) ilmenite as a
feedstock, the admixture or substitution of a higher
grade feedstock such as slag provides higher
chlorinator capacity and, by producing less waste
chlorides, lowers environmental control costs. For
plants originally designed for rutile, slag and
synthetic rutile allow process operators to minimize
their exposure to the risk of high rutile prices
because, as mentioned above, rutile prices have
tended to be much more volatile.
QIT Corporate Stratep=
24.      In looking forward to the 1990s,  QIT intends to maintain its policy
of providing the TiO2 industry with a range of products. In addition, QIT
will aim for as much flexibility as possible within that range, in order to
permit customers to address changing feedstock needs caused by environmental
and other constraints. The first major development for QIT outside its
traditional operation at Sorel, in Quebec province, producing sulfate-route
slag from Lac Allard ore (Quebec, Canada), was the Richards Bay Minerals
partnership in South Africs, which in ten years has grown to be the second
most Important source of high-grade slag suitable for the sulfate and the
chloride process pigment production. In February 1988, QIT sold its equity



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 14
share of Richards Bay Minerals to another BP affiliate. At Sorel, expansion
until 1969 was by construction of new furnaces, whereafter it has been the
result of process refinement and modification. The slag produced has been
progressively improved from 70 percent TiO2 to 78-8C percent T102 at present.
Between 1979 and 1988, capacity of QIT operations will have increased by
about 30 percent from 780,000 to 1,025,000 metric tons. Given that low alkali
TiO2 slags Is suitable for either chloride o. sulfate process plants, QIT is
planning to add more low alkali slag to its product line so that is can
respond to future demand from either sector of the industry. QIT geologists
have concluded that a substantial opportunity lay in the development of the
mineral sand deposits of Madagascar, which would in particular make it
possible for QIT to increase the output of chloride process feedstock from the
QIT Sorel operation.
25.      Before the end of 1988, QIT will have completed a facility expansion
at Sorel which will raise its 80 percent titanium dioxide (sorelslag) capacity
to 1,025,000-1,050,000 tons per annum. Three of QIT nine furnaces will have
been modernized, and engineering is in progress to modernize the rest of the
furnaces to raise the slag capacity to approximately 1,400,000 tons per annum.
QIT is simultaneously proceeding with plans at Sorel to build a slag drying
and sizing plant to be commissioned in 1990 for the production of low alkali
chloride grade slags.  This plant will have a design capacity of
400,000-500,000 tons per annum of chloride slag, out of the total of
1.4 million tons per annum mentioned above. By the mid-1990's the
preponderant source of beach sand ilmenite consumed in Sorel ia planned to be
from QIT-Madagascar Minerals. QIT is also considering the installation of a
synthetic rutile production unit capable of economically converting 85 percent
Ti02 slag into a 94-95 percent TiO2 product. QIT is positioning itself to be
able to offer the following range of products for the 1990s:
- 60 percent                                           ilmenite
suitable for the chloride process;
- 80 percent                                           sorelslag
suitable as feed for the sulfate process;
- 85 percent
low alkali slag suitable for chloride process;
- 95 percent                                           synthetic rutile
suitable for chloride process pigment plants
and as a substitute for natural rutile.
While in the past, consumers have tended to consider natural rutile,
synthetic rutile, ilmenite and slag as distinct and separate sources of
supply, today they consider all as sources of feedstock and take into
account the cost and suitability of each materiel and blend of materials
before deciding which is most suited to their process.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 13 of 14
The Effect of Madatascar Mlnerals on the Market
26.      The timing of the Madagascar project is being planned to coincide
with forecast market needs. Against the backdrop of a limited number of mine
expansion projects in Australia planned to be brought on stream by 1989-90,
thereby satisfying the industry's immediate needs for new feedstock
requirements, the start-up of the Madagascar mine is planned to follow this
new Australian capacity. Due to the comprehensive range of products that can
be made from the 60 percent Madagascar ilmenite, primarily for the chloride
route but vith the flexibility to provide for the sulfate route, QIT foresees
a ready market acceptance for the products of Madagascar Minerals, whether as
ilmenite or Upgraded Ilmenite (UGI). Figure II shows the supply-demand
relationship through the end of the century, with Madagascar in a position to
provide a substantial part of additional requirement from the early 1990O
onwards. Although there are other TiO2 raw materials, such as the
aforementioned Australian operations, anatase from Brazil and ilmenite from a
umber of deposits around the world, there are strong indications to believe
that the quality of Madagascar ilmonite and QIT unique technology will enable
it to offer customers feedstocks tailored to individual requirements at prices
which are fully competitive. The Madagascar ilmenite project will allow QIT
and its affiliates to provide a complete range of products, backed by the
most extensive reserves in the industry.



.-23 -ANNEX I
Page 14 of 14
IUNTE MINING ENGINEEPJNG CREDIT
..- FIGURE-I1
FORECAST OF Ti02 FEEOSTOCK DEMAND AND SUPPLY
000 MT TWO2 Content
5000
4500
_S  DEMND
4000
. .  .     ~NEW LA SLAG
3500
3000                                                            TIN 
SLAG
2500
1500
500                   *                                    OTHER ORES
0
.64 .           0..     .     .     ..      .



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
ILMENITE MINING PROJECT
Backtround
1.        A key issue related to the proposed mining project is how to
minimize the environmental damage to the Mandena area, situated at
approximately 10 km north of Fort-Dauphin, where Madagascar Minerals, the
operator for the joint-venture, intend to commence mining for mineral sands by
late 1992. The proposed operation will require careful planning to avoid long-
term environmental damage to the areas being mined which include one of the
remaining tracts of littoral tropical rain forest.
Environmental Impact Study (EIS)
2.       OMNIS and QIT are aware of the importance of having an environmental
impact study and an acceptable plan of actions prepared by a specialized
independent consultant firm combining not only the know-how on environmental
problems related to the mining of mineral beach sands but also of the Malagasy
ecosystems. The mining and primary concentration methods envisaged will be a
pond dredging operation followed by a floating concentrator plant. Separation
of heavy minerals from the sand will be accomplished on helical sluices on the
floating concentrator. The heavy mineral concentrates will be pumped to
land-based stockpiles after removal of trace amounts of magnetite. The sand
tailings will be returned to the rear of the mining pond, thereby reclaiming
the mined-out area. Environmental planning will address the problems of
minimizing the environmental damage through the choice of the most suited
mining method and through a well-planned and well-managed rehabilitation
program. IDA's environmental experts will be working closely with OMNr1 and
QIT Madagascar Minerals to ensure that a state-of-the-art environmentel study
is undertaken. IDA experts have emphasized the importance of including among
the consultants selected to undertake the EIS internationally recognized
experts in the Malagasy ecosystems (a special note ptepared by staff is on
file in the project office). The EIS should enable all interested parties to
identify the best scenario to minimize the environmental Impact.
3.       The environmental impact study will proceed as follows:
(i)   detailed baseline information including all
ecological, hydrological, topographical and
climatological data needed to evaluate land stability
and erosion, development and costing of the detailed
rehabilitation plan. Floral and fauna surveys also to
be undertaken;
(ii)   simulation of the project area for a without project
case;
(iii)   definition of the different alternatives for mining
and assessment for each of the likely environmental
impacts;



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
(*v)   costing of each alternative with the environmental
Impact and selection of program on the basis of
integration of mine requirements, ecological
considerations and cost efficiency.
4.       A condition of vtfectiveness of the engineering credit will be
commitment to undertake an environmental Impact study according to terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT EXECUTION
BackgXround
1.       The OMNISIQIT partnership contract established in 1986 is an
unincorporated joint-venture in which each party retains its separate
identity, accountability vis-a-vis its creditors and tax authorities, and
outright ownership of the assets proportionate to its equity participation.
QIT-MADAGASCAR MINERALS LTD. ET CIE, a firm registered and domiciled in
Madagascar which is the operator for the joint-venture partners, will be
the operator for the proposed engineering credit. The unincorporated
joint-venture agreement was chosen to make it possible for QIT to be a more
effective managerloperator. The agreement has been ratified by
Madagascar's Parliament. The proposed organization chart for the
preparation and implementation of the project is attached. A special
project group QIT-MADAGASCAR MINERALS PROJECT has been formed which reports
to the operator of QIT-MADAGASCAR MINERALS. QIT is an experienced partner,
with extensive experience in the production, processing and marketing of
titanium minerals, which is expected to execute the project in a
professional and cost effective way.
2.        Under the PPF granted to OMNIS by IDA in October 1987,
consultancy services will be provided to assist OMNIS set-up its own
project control organization which will fulfill the following functions:
(i)   act as technical and administrative supervisor;
(11)   ensure that OMNIS is supplied with complete technical
and economic information; and
(III)  ensure that OMNIS is adequately informed on all
decisions contemplated or taken that affect the
project.
A condition of effectiveness of the credit will be a legal agreement between
OMNIS, QIT, QIT-Madagascar Minerals as operator for the joint-venture
acceptable to IDA, spelling out the specific obligations of the partners to
the joint-venture and of the operator for the carrying out of the engineering
credit.
REPORTING
3.       OMNIS would submit to the Association the monthly reports which it
receives from the operator QIT-Madagascar Minerals, quarterly reports on
its activities financed under the Credit (within one month of the
completion of each quarter), and annual reports on the implementation of
the project in a format acceptable to the Association. After completion of
the project, OMNIS would prepare a report on the execution of the project
no later than six months after the Credit closing date. The Government and
OMNIS would select an Independent auditor satisfactory to IDA to prepare
annual audits of the project's accounts, including the Statement of
Expenditures.



27 -
IUEITE MIG ENGINEERING CREDIT           ANNEX III
t                        Fa-g~~~~~~~eg 2 of 4
MADAGASCAR MINERALS PROJECT
JOINT VENTURE ORGANIZATION
QITO%NI 
COMITE DE DIRECTION
Chairman, Capitale de Vaisseau
R. Ratsimandresy
Members, R. Andrianaivomanana
S.F. Prest
M.H. Thibodeau
QST MADAGASCAR MINERALS LTD. ET CIE
(OPERATOR)
President - S.F. Prest
Vice-President, Administration - d.P. Larin
QIT MADAGASCAR
MINERALS PROJECT
Project Manager                                 QIT MARKETING
M.G. Mower



ILKENITrtfMINING ENGINEERING CREDIT
MADA('ASCAR MINERALS PROJECT
Project Dire.ctor
S.F. Prest
Project Manager           Technical Mtanager         Operations Manager         QIT MM LTD. CIE
M.G. Mower                 L.J. Dearman                  (VACANT)               G.P. Larin
_~~~~~~~~~I
.                            .         ,.   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ILMENITE 14IINNG ENGINEEIG CREDIT
MADAGASCAR MNRLS PROJECT
FUNCTIONAL ORGAiZATION CHART
PROECl MtAmCEI
. hit we    |
|OEPItlY PROACt 
IMANACER
I                                                                                                   I
MIX ,, L
PtAtfdN     fCSt   O"R
.            *4tl Jj &      f QInlrenont
I _M E _I _                                          _ IL   I   _  -   -  *                _                    -          I_ -               I :t
550 ANA4LDiA  1/AI,*dut t4.NII t   g.(t#'aw4t9.r  10 1n 5'ft0AC.f ttANACSII                  tJC   tvt      d~Oito~  ~|
A
hCt UPh^th^tiu/ lot.t.-lttllyfnsus Rflto 10ollt efttoa61 cocimt4l^C                                          * Nmied dV



-12'                            MADAGASCAR                                                                                 -
PRINCIPAL MINERAL AREAS                                                                   -f
-         PaPved roads                  Au    Gold
All weather roads            :.Cr   Chromite,
Railroads                     ,      Quartz                                                 N AbIofe
+     Airports                     [         Mineral sands                     H                    .              Vo+crin
Fbrests                        G      Graphite
Nafloonal capital                         Mica
14            c      Rivers                       ( 'C1  Coal
Prefecture boundaries
Province boundaries
7 stk   ~~~~  ~~         >        6*~~Antalahna
9      0        190        M4  __
MILES                                  Mahap7
SO    190     90   290    2t
KILOMETER$
BJ-moQz  ' k                                                     u    vbrk
enaloAtsinanana
/         ¢     ' t~~~~   thiluirt  gL  W~~~~/ 
Aor ombe6¢ z  ea mo s
t   1   oAnkazrzabo  1*    IhO5yJ f-~~kao6             An  tar
\~~     ~         ~~~  raIaadd ,NAAN'W                                         -    Vohiinan IiJee  N  9u  1  A
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2?~~ ~ 2?'cao, 6>M  ,
g      ts,               _)                   _lanaro                              ocsw        (          f   S          it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as *aT
%-A~~- a
Chonnel                                                                     lbinany     IV  D      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 0/V 
ra             42t                <~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4iO                           48                                  <                    S~~~~~~~~~Fras
z \ } f ---- ,) -e Jk Jtz
m.i.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



