Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 1928 MAG
             (Ilmenite Mining Engineering Project)
                            between
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              and
                   OFFICE MILITAIRE NATIONAL
               POUR LES INDUSTRIES STRATEGIQUES
                      Dated July 18, 1988
                       PROJECT AGREEMENT
   AGREEMENT,  dated   July   18,   1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  OFFICE MILITAIRE
NATIONAL POUR LES INDUSTRIES STRATEGIQUES (OMNIS).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic  of Madagascar (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association  has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount  in various currencies equivalent to six
million   two    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 6,200,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that OMNIS
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS OMNIS, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  OMNIS  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall exercise its
rights, powers and remedies under  the Joint Venture Agreement and
the Implementation Agreement to cause  QIT Madagascar to carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Joint Venture
Agreement and the Implementation Agreement.
     (b)  For the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the Project, OMNIS
shall enter into  an  agreement  with  QIT  and QIT Madagascar, on
terms and conditions acceptable  to  the Association, which shall
specify QIT's QIT Madagascar's and OMNIS financial contribution to
be made for the carrying out  of the Project, and QIT Madagascar's
responsibilities  regarding  the  implementation  of  the Project,
procurement  of  goods  and  consultants  services,  reporting and
preparation of  documents  and  evidence  required  for withdrawal
requests and replenishment of the Special Account.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) OMNIS  shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Section 9.08 of the General Conditions (land acquisition)
in respect of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  OMNIS  shall  cause  QIT  Madagascar  to  carry  out the
obligations set forth in Sections  9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and maintenance, respec-
tively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a)  OMNIS  shall  consult with the Association
before any amendment  of  the  Joint  Venture Agreement during the
execution of the Project.
     (b)  Except as the  Association  shall otherwise agree, OMNIS
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating,  or  waiving the Implementation Agreement
or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  OMNIS  shall,  at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
     (b)  OMNIS  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  OMNIS of its obligations under this
Agreement or the Implementation Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of OMNIS
Page  3
     Section 3.01. OMNIS shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and engineering practices under  the  supervision of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. OMNIS shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  financial and
engineering practices.
     Section  3.03.  OMNIS  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) OMNIS  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its  operations  and  financial  condition  and  shall  cause  QIT
Madagascar to maintain and  furnish  to OMNIS records and accounts
to reflect  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  OMNIS shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts in respect of  the  Project referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of OMNIS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
Page  4
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
OMNIS of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For OMNIS:
          Office Militaire National pour
            les Industries Strategiques
          21, Lalana Razanakombana
          B.P. 1 Bis
          Antananarivo, Madagascar
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                OMNIS                          22 370 OMNIS-MG
                Antananarivo
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  OMNIS  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and OMNIS shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient  evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    OFFICE MILITAIRE NATIONAL POUR LES
                         INDUSTRIES STRATEGIQUES
                    By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Part A:   Procurement of Goods
     Goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded through
limited  international  bidding   procedures   on   the  basis  of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least
three  qualified  suppliers  eligible  under  the  "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May  1985  (the  Guidelines)  and  in  accordance with the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $50,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
Page  6
     In order to assist  in  carrying out the Project, consultants
shall be employed whose  qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
