Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 1928 MAG
             (Ilmenite Mining Engineering Project)
                            between
               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                              and
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated July 18, 1988
                 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
   AGREEMENT, dated July  18,  1988  between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF  MADAGASCAR  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  any financing so  provided  by  the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so  requests,  out of the proceeds of
any credit by the  Association  or  loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development  which  may later be granted to
the Borrower for the  construction  of the ilmenite mining project
to be engineered under the Project; and
     (C)  OFFICE   MILITAIRE   NATIONAL    POUR   LES   INDUSTRIES
STRATEGIQUES (OMNIS) and QIT-FER  ET TITANE INC ("QIT") previously
agreed to assign QIT's  joint  venture  interest to QIT Madagascar
Minerals Ltee et  Companie  (QIT  Madagascar)  and  to appoint QIT
Madagascar as the  operator,  to  carry  out  the Project with the
Page  2
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to  OMNIS  the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  a  development credit to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.Ol. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and OMNIS of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Statuts" means the Statutes  of  OMNIS  as set forth in
Ordonnance  No.  76-007,  dated  March  20,  1976  as  amended  by
Ordonnance No. 76-027 of July  13, 1976, and Ordonnance No. 82-020
of August 11, 1982;
     (c)  "Joint  Venture  Agreement"  means  the  agreement dated
March 18, 1986 and ratified May  7, 1986 between QIT-FER ET TITANE
INC and OMNIS, pursuant  to  which  both parties agree to explore,
exploit and commercialize  minerals  in  Madagascar pursuant to an
agreement dated  November  23,  1986,  ratified  December 2, 1986,
QIT's interest in the Joint  Venture Agreement was assigned to QIT
Madagascar;
     (d)  "QIT Madagascar" means  QIT  Madagascar Minerals Ltee et
Compagnie, established, as  societe  en  nom collectif, registered
pursuant to Malagasy law and  domiciled in Antananarivo, to act as
OMNIS' joint venture partner under the Joint Venture Agreement and
to act as  operator  in  accordance  with  Article  8 of the Joint
Venture Agreement;
     (e)  "Implementation Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered into by OMNIS, QIT-FER  ET  TITANE INC and QIT Madagascar,
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
     (f)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to  an  exchange  of  letters  dated  July  22,  1987 and
October 29, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to six  million  two  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Page  3
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1998  and   ending  May  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
Page  4
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause  OMNIS  to  perform  in accordance with the
provisions of the Project  Agreement  all the obligations of OMNIS
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or  appropriate  to  enable  OMNIS to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
available to OMNIS an advance  and   shall ensure that OMNIS shall
make available such funds as its contribution to the joint venture
for the carrying out of  the  Project.  Upon the final decision of
the partners to  the  Joint  Venture  Agreement  as  to whether to
proceed with  the  development  of  the  ilmenite mine, associated
facilities and infrastructure, the Borrower and OMNIS shall decide
on the terms and conditions  of arrangements for settlement of the
advance, which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by  OMNIS  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditures submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  OMNIS shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Implementation Agreement;
     (b)  QIT or QIT Madagascar  shall  have failed to perform any
of their obligations under the Implementation Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that: (i) OMNIS
will  be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement; or (ii)  QIT  Madagascar  will  be  able to perform its
obligations under the Implementation Agreement.
     (d)  The  Statuts   shall   have   been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of OMNIS  to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  The  Joint  Venture   Agreement  or  the  Implementation
Agreement shall have been  amended,  abrogated, repealed or waived
so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  Project,  the
performance  of  OMNIS  of   its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement, or the performance of QIT Madagascar of its obligations
under the Implementation Agreement.
Page  6
     (f)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OMNIS or for the suspension of its operations.
     (g)  OMNIS, QIT or  any  other  authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment of QIT Madagascar  or  for  the suspension of its
operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  through (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.O1 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Association has approved  the terms of reference for
an environmental impact study; and
     (b)  OMNIS,  QIT   and   QIT   Madagascar   have  signed  the
Implementation Agreement in  accordance  with  Section 2.01 (b) of
the Project Agreement and it has become effective.
     Section 6.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O3. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association: that  the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by  OMNIS  and is legally binding upon
OMNIS in accordance with its terms.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere aupres de la Presidence
            de la Republique charge des Finances
            et de l'Economie
          Antananarivo, Madagascar
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINFIN                           22489
               Antananarivo
Page  7
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145  (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                    By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods                       2,310,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                2,820,000      100% of foreign
     services under                             expenditures
     Parts A through
     E of the Project
(3)  Consultants'                  510,000      100% of foreign
     services for, and                          expenditures
     Project promotion
     cost of, OMNIS
(4)  Refunding of                  560,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
Page  8
                                 _________
     TOTAL                       6,200,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than the Borrower  and  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the   Project   are  to  assist  in  the
preparation of an ilmenite mining project.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Completion  of  preliminary   and   basic  engineering  to  a
point where detailed design  and  tendering  can commence for the:
(a) dredge and concentrator  plant,  (b) mineral separation plant,
(c) power plant,  (d)  dock/harbor,  and  (e) other infrastructure
facilities.
Part B:
     Setting up of a Wet  Pilot Plant and Mineral Separation Pilot
Plant to optimize and confirm flowsheets.
Part C:
     Preparation of a  capital  cost  estimate  and an estimate of
mine start-up and operating costs.
Part D:
     Preparation of market analysis and marketing strategy.
Part E:
     Preparation of an environmental impact study.
Part F:
     Carrying out of in-fill drilling  and ore body delineation to
improve definition of mineable reserves at Mandena.
Part G:
     Construction of infrastructure, in particular road and bridge
development for improved  access  to  the  location of the mineral
processing and product facility.
                        *     *    *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
Page  9
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1.8 million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
Page  10
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
