Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: P-7351-MOG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 24 MILLION (US$32 MILLION)
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
March 29, 2000
Financial Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 28, 2000)
Currency Unit: Togrog
US$ 1=1090.0 Togrog
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB           Agriculture Bank
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BELTAC       Banking, Enterprise, and Legal TA Credit
BESAC        Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
BOM          Bank of Mongolia (Mongol Bank)
CAR          Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA         Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSRP         Financial Sector Reform Program Loan (ADB)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Corp.)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          Intemational Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ITI          Investment and Technological Innovation Bank
JAICA        (Japan) Intemational Cooperation Agency
MARA         Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency
MPs          Members of Parliament
MPRP         Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NIR          Net Intemational Reserves
NPLs         Non-performing loans
OECF         Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSCD         Private Sector Development Credit
RB           Reconstruction Bank
SB           Savings Bank
SOEs         State-Owned Enterprises
TDB          Trade and Development Bank
USAID        US Agency for Intemational Development
VAT          Value-Added Tax
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:   Mr. Julian Schweitzer, Acting Country Director, EACSM
Sector Director:   Mr. Jacques Loubert, EASFS
Task Team Leaders: Mr. Irfan Aleem, EASFS and Mr. Richard Lynn Ground, EACMF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction ...................................................................1
Background ...................................................................2
Structure and Recent Performance of the Financial System ............................................................6
Govemment's Long-Term  Vision for Financial Sector Development .....................                                  .......................8
Government's Medium-Term  Strategy for the Development of the Financial Sector ....................9
Policy Reform Actions to Facilitate Implementation of the Govemment's
Medium-Term  Strategy For the Development of the Financial Sector ...........................I ........... 10
Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                  12
IDA  Experience with Policy Lending in Mongolia ..................................................................     14
Features of the Proposed Loan ..................................................................                                      15
Risks ................................................................ .                                                              17
Recommendation .................................................................. 20
ANNEXES
Annex  1: Letter of Development Policy ...................................................                           ............... 21
Annex 2: Policy Matrix ..................................................................                                            37
Annex 3: Mongolia: Macroeconomic Framework, 1995 -2001 ....................................... 52
Mongolia: Balance of Payments, 1998-2005 .................................................... 53
Mongolia: Sumrnmary Operations of the General Government, 1997-2001 ..... 54
Mongolia At a Glance ..................................................................                               56
Annex  4: Mongolia: Status of Bank  Group  Operations .................................................... 58
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MONGOLIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower         Mongolia
Amount           SDR 24 million (US$32 million equivalent)
Terms            Standard IDA terms, 40 years including a grace period of 10 years
Objectives       The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) will support the
Govenmment's medium-term strategy for financial sector reform and
development needed to achieve macroeconomic stability, accelerate private
sector-led growth and reduce poverty. The main components of this
strategy, which will facilitate the development of a sound and efficient
financial system, include: (a) the establishment of basic financial
infrastructure (e.g., banking skills, accounting standards, enforcement of
financial contracts, and a clear exit policy framework for troubled banks);
(b) the consolidation of the banking system; (c) the divestiture of the
Government's ownership in Trade and Development Bank; (d) the
development of effective regulation and supervision of the financial system;
(e) the improvement of the payment system in rural areas; and (f) the
confirmation of Government's commitment to honor financial contracts by
timely servicing Government bonds.
Description      Proceeds from the credit will be used to close the projected 2000-2002
balance of payments financing gap of US$32 million and to free-up bank
credit for private sector development and faster economic growth, by
enabling Government to reduce substantially its large stock of net domestic
credit from the domestic banking system, and help fund the cost of bank
restructuring.
Benefits         The main benefits that the proposed FSAC  would generate are a
consolidation of macroeconomic stability, more rapid economic growth, and
faster and more widespread improvements in living standards. To this end,
and in line with the Country Assistance Strategy encompassing FY1999-
2001, the financial resources provided under this credit will help Mongolia
avoid an excessive transitional decline in consumption and investmnent,
enabling a less costly adjustment to the recent large terms of trade shocks
that Mongolia has experienced since 1998 following the decline in the prices
of its main exports of primary commodities. The proposed FSAC would
also help the Government implement its medium-term strategy for achieving
its long-term vision to develop the financial sector. As this vision unfolds,
the economy and the population will benefit from the emergence of
institutions and markets that will ensure the internediation of financial
resources to viable enterprises, the diversification of risks, and greater
access to banking services by firms and households.
Risks            The following are the significant risks to the proposed operation:



- ii -
*  The consensus on specific policy measures supported by the FSAC fails
to hold and prevents Parliamentary ratification of the credit.
*  The outcome of the June 2000 Parliamentary elections may weaken
ownership of the financial sector reform program were it to result in a
change in administration.
*  The macroeconomic program  could be pushed off track by the
unusually severe winter and/or policy slippages.
*  Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from
vested interests (e.g., in banks to be liquidated or privatized).
*  The high incidence of non-performing loans in the banking system
could undermine efforts to restore the sector to health if they remain
unresolved.
The proposed operation cannot be fully insulated from the political risks,
particularly those emanating from the proximity of the June 2000 elections,
but they can be mitigated, as outlined below. At the same time, it should be
noted that the timing of the operation yields significant benefits, given the
context: the Bank, together with other donors, has engaged the Govemment
in a dialog on financial sector reforms during the last 15 months and an
agreement was reached on the program of medium-term policy reformns
described above and in the attached policy matrix. However, there is only a
limited time window of opportunity for the present Government to
implement the agreed measures that the first tranche of the credit would
support. Implementing these actions, many of which have already been
undertaken, before this window closes, will allow the momentum of
financial sector reforms to be maintained without interruption.
To assess whether a sufficiently broad consensus exists not only for the
vision and strategy for the development of the financial system but also for
the specific actions needed to implement the FSAC, the Government
facilitated consultations by the task team with members of Parliament from
both the Government Coalition and the opposition party. Feedback from
these consultations indicates that the reform program is broadly supported
by a wide cross-section of the civil society.
Sustainability is likely to be further enhanced by: (a) the cooperative
arrangement between IDA and ADB, in the form of concomitant financial
sector operations to support the Government's financial sector reform
program, as set out in the common Letter of Development Policy and Policy
Matrix; (b) the multi-tranche structure of the proposed operation, with the
tranche releases back-loaded so that only US$12 million of the total credit
amount (US$32 million) could be disbursed prior to the elections-provided
Parliament ratifies the credit and all of the effectiveness conditions have
been met; (c) the broad consensus that has been forged as part of the FSAC
process among key stakeholders on the Government's Long-Term Vision



- iii -
and Medium-Term Strategy for Financial Sector Development;' and (d)
close coordination with the IMF to ensure that credit proceeds strengthen
fiscal sustainability, in the context of the ongoing IMF Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) Arrangement. These elements will foster
reform continuity beyond 2000, regardless of the outcome of the elections.
The Government has a generally good track record on maintaining the
reform momentum even under difficult external and internal conditions, as
evidenced by its successful completion of the First Review of the Second
Year of the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in January
2000. Macro indicators still appear to be on track, despite pressures on
Government spending and inflation from the severest winter in thirty years
(Zdud)-which has killed 2 million head of livestock and left 80,000 rural
families destitute. Nonetheless, additional measures may be needed to meet
the fiscal program targets for 2000 in light of the Zdud. Any such measures
would be discussed during the upcoming Second Review mission of the
Second Year of the PRGF, in which IDA will participate. In addition, the
proposed ADB Financial Sector Reform Loan (FSRP) would provide
funding to help Mongolia adjust to the macroeconomic effects of the Zdud.
A new PRGF is planned for October 2000.
At the same time, Government and the Bank of Mongolia have forged ahead
with financial sector reforms over the past several months, notwithstanding
the huge external and climatic shocks and the proximity of the June
Parliamentary elections, initiating liquidation of two deeply insolvent large
state banks, doubling the minimum capital requirements for banks, and
eliminating almost all arrears on Government bank restructuring bonds. In
addition, most of the future actions that would be supported by the proposed
FSAC also are in the purview of the Bank of Mongolia, which enjoys
considerable autonomy and whose top management has a tenure extending
almost until the Closing Date of the credit.
In terms of implementation capacity, Mongolia is generally weak, although
the Bank of Mongolia, which will play a salient role in carrying out the
reform measures the proposed credit would support, has significantly
improved its implementation capacity in recent years. Donors have in place
substantial TA to help Mongolia address implementation issues, including in
the financial sector.
ADB currently has technical assistance in place for the banking sector
through the end of 2000, and is expected to launch a second TA for
implementation of its FSRP that will support the NBFI component of the
Government's financial sector reform program. IDA is staggering its own
'The Govemment, with the support of the Bank, recently created a Financial Sector Development Performance Group
(FSDPG) to forge a broad consensus on (a) the long-term vision and medium-term strategy for the financial sector; (b)
the specific measures needed to achieve that vision and on the benchmarks to measure progress; and (c) tracking
financial sector development performance over the medium-term, to help ensure reform continuity. The FSDPG
includes high-level members of Govemment policy-making bodies; members of Parliament from both sides of the
aisle; and NGO and private sector representatives; and with donors in an advisory role. The FSDPG held a retreat on
February 21, 2000 in which these stake-holder's reached a broad consensus on the Government's Long-Term Vision
and Medium-Term Strategy for the Reform and Development of the Financial Sector.



- iv -
proposed TA loan to follow the completion of the ADB-assisted banking TA
program to support implementation of the banking sector component of the
Government's financial sector reform program beyond 2000.  Over the
short-term, USAID is providing TA to the Bank of Mongolia to assist it in
carrying out several of the reform measures linked to the first tranche of the
proposed credit.
Another risk is related to the high level of non-performing loans. Although
the NTL ratio is very high (53%), actual NPLs amount to only US$35
million (about 3.5% of GDP) and less than 20% of total banking system
assets. Of these bad loans, US$23 million are concentrated in
Reconstruction Bank, ITI Bank and Agriculture Bank; the first two banks,
which account for US$20 million or 57% of all NPLs are in the process of
liquidation, expected to be completed within six months, and the third one is
under receivership. The proposed FSAC will also support other measures to
further reduce NPLs, such as strengthening MARA, Mongolia's asset
management company, and the Credit Information Bureau.
Poverty category  Not applicable
Estimated
Disbursements
The proposed credit would be a multi-tranche operation designed to release
the first tranche of US$12 million equivalent in the second quarter of
calendar year 2000. The second tranche of US$12 million equivalent is
expected to be released about 18 months thereafter. The proposed FSAC
also envisages a floating tranche of US$8 million equivalent tied to the
divestiture of the Government's ownership of the Trade and Development
Bank (TDB). The closing date will be June 30, 2003.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MONGOLIA
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
INTRODUCTION
1.    During the last 15 months, the Bank has engaged Government, Parliament Members, the
private sector, NGOs and other donors in a dialogue on financial sector issues, through a
Financial Sector Review. This process has helped Mongolia to develop A Long Tenn-Vision
and Medium-Term Strategy for the Reform and Development of the Financial Sector.
2.    The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) would support implementation
of the banking sector component of the Government's Medium-term Strategy for Financial
Sector Development needed to consolidate macroeconomic stability, create a sound and efficient
financial system, accelerate private sector-led growth and reduce poverty. This strategy calls for
the establishment of: (a) basic financial infrastructure needed for a sound financial system (e.g.,
banking skills, accounting standards, enforcement of financial contracts, and a clear exit policy
framework for troubled banks); (b) consolidation of the banking system to achieve stronger and
more efficient banks; (c) liquidation of insolvent state banks; (d) the divestiture of the
Government's ownership of a controlling share holding of Trade and Development Bank to a
strategic investor(s) with banking skills recognized to be of international standards; (e)
development of more effective regulation and supervision of the financial system;  (f )
improvement of the payment system in rural areas; (g) the timely servicing of Government bonds
including the payment of interest arrears; and (h) the replacement of existing Govermment bonds
held by banks with marketable securities. ADB's planned June 2000 Financial Sector Reform
Program Loan (FSRP) would support implementation of the NBFI component of the Medium-
Term Financial Sector Development Strategy. The IMF also is supporting the Strategy through its
ongoing PRGF, and other donors, including IMF, USAID, GTZ and JAICA, are supporting the
implementation of the Strategy through TA.
3.    The proposed FSAC also would support implementation of Government's medium-term
macroeconomic program. This program, designed to enable Mongolia to adjust efficiently to the
huge 1998-99 terms of trade shock, which has persisted in 2000, is backed by the ongoing IMF
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), completion of the First Review of the Second
Year of which Mongolia successfully completed on January 24, 2000. The macroeconomic
program also is supported by other donors, including ADB, USAID, OECF and GTZ, mainly
through project lending. ADB also has an ongoing adjustment loan, to support governance reform
as well as the macroeconomic program. ADB has advised that it plans to present a US$15 million
Financial Sector Reform Program Loan to its Board around June 2000 to support the NBFI
component of the Government's financial sector reform program
4.    Proceeds from the proposed FSAC would close the projected 2000-2002 balance of
payments financing gaps, of US$32 million, enabling a less costly adjustment to the large terms
of trade shock. In 2000, credit proceeds could help finance costs of bank restructuring higher than
those programmed in the 2000 budget, if any, up to an amount equivalent to 0.4% of GDP. The
first tranche of the proposed FSAC (equivalent to 1.1% of projected 2000 GDP) would enable
Government to reduce its large stock of net credit from the domestic banking system, dampening



- 2 -
inflationary pressures stemming from the terms of trade shock (via the 30% depreciation of the
exchange rate and more than doubling of petroleum prices over the past year) and freeing-up
bank credit for the credit-starved private sector 2 During 2001-02, proceeds from the proposed
FSAC would enable Government to further reduce its large stock of net domestic credit from the
domestic banking system, further alleviating inflationary pressures and freeing-up credit to
accelerate private sector and overall economic growth.
5.     The Government's medium-term macroeconomic program, with the backing of the IMF
PRGF Arrangement, is designed to foster a less costly adjustment to the large terms of trade
shocks experienced by Mongolia during 1998-99, reduce pressures on inflation and the build-up
of debt, and, eventually, accelerate economic growth, by both reducing fiscal and current account
imbalances to sustainable levels and spreading-out these adjustments over time. An acceleration
of economic growth to 4 to 5% of GDP is projected during 2000-2002 (from an estimated 3.3% in
1999), while inflation is projected to decelerate from 10% in 1999 to 8.5% in 2000.
6.     The World Bank's commodity price projections at the beginning of 2000 suggest that the
terms of trade shocks will not further intensify in 2000. However, the recent further run-up in
petroleum prices, if these higher prices persist, would cancel out the projected 10% improvement
during 2000 in the prices of copper, which accounts for about 40% of Mongolia's merchandise
exports.
7.     The exceptionally severe winter weather (Zdud) this year-which killed 2 million head of
livestock and left 80,000 rural families destitute, together with the further run-up in oil prices, has
placed pressures on Government spending and inflation, as discussed in more detail in the next
section. While macro indicators still appear to be broadly on track, additional measures may be
needed to meet the fiscal program for 2000 in light of the Zdud. Any such measures would be
discussed during the upcoming Second Review mission of the Second Year of the PRGF, in
which IDA will participate. In addition, the proposed ADB FSRP would provide funding to help
Mongolia adjust to the macroeconomic effects of the Zdud.
8.     The General Government's overall deficit declined from  11.7% of GDP in 1998 to an
estimated 8.5% in 1999. The program for 2000 calls for a further reduction of the General
Govemment deficit, to 7.3% of GDP. By 2002, the last year of the proposed FSAC, this deficit
would contract to a projected 5% of GDP. The current account balance, which went from a small
surplus in 1997 to a deficit of 12.4% of GDP in 1998 as a result mainly of the huge terms of trade
shock, is estimated to have declined to 6.2% of GDP in 1999. It is projected to rise to about 10%
of GDP in 2000, and contract to about 7% by 2002. (See Annex 3.)
BACKGROUND
9.      Mongolia became a member of the World Bank, IDA and IFC in February 1991. In
1998, the country's Gross Domestic Product was US$1 billion. The population totaled 2.4 million
people, and per capita income, US$440. Mongolia's economy depends heavily on the exports of a
2Under the PRGF for 2000, additional financing associated with bank restructuring and regularization of interest
payments on Govemment bonds up to an amount of 0.4% of GDP could be financed from the domestic banking system
in the absence of additional foreign financing. Under the PRGF, any balance of payments financing beyond that
assumed in the program through March 31, 2000, would be used to build-up the Bank of Mongolia's net external asset
position, and lower the ceiling on the Bank of Mongolia's net domestic assets and the ceiling on net banking system
credit to Government. In addition, to meet the quarterly and annual macro targets included in the proposed FSAC to
assess the soundness of the macroeconomic framework during 2000, Government would need to utilize the first tranche
of the credit to build-up its net extemal assets and reduce its net domestic credit.



- 3 -
few primary commodities and is highly vulnerable to terms of trade shocks. In 1998, when the
value of exports of copper declined by an amount equivalent to 8.4% of GDP due to the
depression of world copper prices, copper (39%), non-monetary gold (37%) and cashmere (7%)
still accounted for about 83% of the value of Mongolia's merchandise exports.
10.   Mongolia has made great progress over the past decade in its transition to a democratic
form of government and a market-based economic system. While there has been broad support in
the country for implementing a major program of economic liberalization, there have been
differences of opinion on the pace of reforms, as well as how to deal with weaknesses in the
financial sector.
11.   In 1990, Mongolia initiated a peaceful transition to democracy, despite an economic
collapse precipitated by the abrupt withdrawal of Soviet assistance (equivalent to about 30% of
GDP) and the demise of the CMEA trading system. Free and open parliamentary elections in
1990 and 1992 kept the former communist Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP) in
power until June 1996. The MPRP initiated the process of economic liberalization, with
substantial backing from the international community; however, waning political will and run-up
in international copper prices in 1995 witnessed a slow-down in the pace of reforms in the mid-
1990s, just as the economy started to recover.
12.   In June 1996, the Democratic Coalition was elected on a platform of radical economic
change. In the face of a 24% deterioration in the terms of trade that more than reversed the 1995
improvement (13%) and a severe banking crisis, the new Government, with strong support from
donors, launched an ambitious program to complete the transition to a private sector-oriented
market economy, accelerate economic growth, and reduce poverty. Financial sector restructuring
and modernization were key components of the program, which also included measures to reduce
inflation; liberalize input and output prices; rationalize the tax regime; downsize the state; create a
legal and institutional framework conducive to private sector development; and establish a safety
net for the poor.
13.   These changes spawned a vigorous private sector response, enabling the overall level of
economic activity to recover, despite the progressive shrinkage of activities that dominated the
economy under the old regime; agriculture reassumed a dominant place in the economy at 33.5%
of GDP, surpassing industry, which currently accounts for 24.1 %.
14.   Following the initial transition period, when output plummeted, Mongolia achieved a
sustained recovery during 1994-98, with real GDP growth averaging 3.6%, exceeding the 1.7%
population growth rate.
15.   In 1997, Mongolia's terms of trade recovered partially (12%), disbursements of external
assistance increased sharply, Government reduced its stock of net credit from the domestic
banking system by 3.3% of GDP, and economic growth accelerated to 4% from 2.4% in 1996.
16.   The pronounced deterioration in the terms of trade since 1998, however, jeopardizes
many of Mongolia's gains. Early efforts to devise a suitable policy response to the huge external
shock were thwarted by domestic political turmoil, and the ESAF Arrangement was derailed.
Despite this turmoil, however, a credible set of policy measures were adopted beginning in
September 1998 by a care-taker Government, and supplemented in May 1999 under the
Narantsatsralt Government, enabling Mongolia to get then ESAF (now PRGF) back on track in
June 1999. The fourth coalition Prime Minister, Mr. Amarjargal, entered office in July, 1999.



- 4 -
Parliamentary elections are scheduled for June 2000, with Presidential elections scheduled for
June 2001.
17.   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mongolia encompassing FY1999-2001, was
discussed by the Board on June 2, 1998 (IDA/R98-38). The primary goal of the CAS is to help
Mongolia accelerate its transition to a market-oriented economy, improve living standards, and
reduce poverty. The CAS highlights the importance of supporting medium-term macroeconomic
stabilization as one of the means of achieving these goals. The proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit fully supports the objectives of the CAS by providing balance of payments
support to expedite implementation of financial sector reforms that will facilitate macroeconomic
stability, contribute to faster economic growth, and speed-up improvements in living standards.
18.   In the event of a large terms of trade shock and slower than anticipated GDP growth, the
CAS envisages additional IDA lending to support quick disbursing assistance for implementation
of the additional policy measures needed to achieve a less costly adjustment to the external
shocks. It has been the latter scenario of sharply lower export income, lower than-projected
government revenues, disappointing economic growth and a sharp decline in real income that has
emerged over the last two years, triggered by marked declines in the international prices of
Mongolia's main exports (copper, gold and cashmere), the tripling of oil prices in the past year,
and more recently, the disastrous winter weather.
19.   On average, Mongolia's export prices dropped almost 31% in 1998, while average import
prices declined almost 10%, resulting in a 21% deterioration in the country's terms of trade. This
terms of trade shock lowered Mongolia's gross domestic income by almost 13% in 1998, despite
a 14% increase in the quantum of exports. The terms of trade deteriorated a further 9% in 1999,
resulting in an additional income loss of 4% of GDP. The CAS high case scenario rests on a
projected deterioration of the terms of trade of 4.7% per annum. Although economic activity has
continued to expand despite these large shocks, GDP growth, 3.5% in 1998 and an estimated
3.3% in 1999, has been significantly below the CAS base case projection (5.1%) and the rates
needed to reduce the incidence of poverty, which remained virtually unchanged between 1995
and 1998 (36.3% and 35.6%). In addition, the terms of trade shock has contributed to a severe
banking system crisis that would, if not redressed, further depress growth and erode the basis for
improved living standards.
20.   In 1997, prior to the large, ongoing terms of trade shock, income tax receipts and
dividends from the copper sector amounted to almost 11% of the current revenue of the General
Government (or 2.9% of GDP). In 1998 Government copper revenues dropped to 0.8% of GDP
and in 1999, to 0.5% of GDP. In 1997, govemment revenues from the gold sector (royalties and
VAT) amounted to 4.5% of General Government current revenue, or 1.3% of GDP. In 1998 and
1999 gold sector revenues dropped to 0.7% of GDP due to the decline of international prices.
21.   As a result of the terms of trade shock, in 1998 Mongolia's fiscal deficit shot-up to 11.7%
of GDP in 1998, from 8.6% in 1997, while the current account balance, went from a small surplus
in 1997 to a deficit of 12.4% of GDP. In May 1999, the Government adopted a strong, medium-
term program to adjust to the impact of the termns of trade shock, including a package to augment
fiscal revenue by 2% of GDP annually and reduce capital spending by about 1% of GDP. These
measures, coupled with increases in the VAT (to 13%) and oil excise taxes in September 1998 cut
the overall deficit of the General Govemment to 8.5% of GDP in 1999, compared to a PRFG
target of 9.8% of GDP. This substantial adjustment, together with higher net external financing
with the support of the PRGF, eliminated the Government's use of net banking system credit in
1999, compared to net banking system credit to the Government of 3.8% of GDP in 1998 and a



- 5 -
PRGF ceiling of 0.9% of GDP in 1999. The full-year effects of these tax measures, together with
public administration reform and further privatization, are projected to narrow the general
Government's overall deficit to 7.3% of GDP in 2000 and to 5% in 2002.
22.   Inflation, which was brought down to 6% in 1998 (from 21% in 1997), rose to 10% year
on year at end-1999, due to the impact of lagged relative price adjustments to the external shock
and excessive credit extended to the Government in 1998 . Under the PRGF for 2000, inflation
was orginally targeted to decelerate to 7%, but is now projected to reach 8.5% due to the effects
of the Zdud.
23.    At the end of 1999, total General Government debt is estimated to have reached 78% of
GDP, with General Government external debt amounting to 71% of GDP, compared to 66% and
59%, respectively, in 1998. Mongolia's total external debt is estimated to have reached 88% of
GDP in 1999, while total external debt service is estimated to have amounted to only 7.4 % of
exports of goods and services in 1999, due to the concessional nature of that debt and the high
degree of openness of the economy. Mongolia's total external debt is projected to rise to 89% of
GDP in 2000 and 2001, with the debt service ratio declining to 6.7% and 5.4%, respectively.
24.   Recent Economic Developments. The World Bank's commodity price projections at
the beginning of 2000 suggested that the terms of trade shocks that Mongolia suffered in 1998-99
will not further intensify in 2000, although the recent further run-up in petroleum prices, if these
higher prices persist, would cancel out the projected improvement of about 10% in copper prices
during 2000 (to an average of US$1800 per ton). In December 1999, copper prices were 20%
higher than in December 1998, and during February 2000, copper prices rose a further 2%, to
US$1800 per ton. The three month forward price in the London Metals exchange during
February 2000 averaged US$1836 per ton, and the fifteen month forward price averaged
US$1902 per ton. Copper prices have clearly been recovering and the market expects them to
continue to recover. These stronger than projected copper prices will provide some measure of
relief as Mongolia strives to cope with the macroeconomic effects of sharply higher oil prices and
the unusually harsh winter weather.
25.   Macroeconomic indicators still appear to be broadly on track, despite the pressures
placed on Government spending and inflation by the exceptionally severe winter weather and the
further run-up in oil prices,. Total net domestic credit to the General Government amounted to
63.6 billion togrogs at end-February 2000; this compares with a figure of 57.1 billion togrogs in
December 1999, and a March 31, 2000 target (ceiling) of 66.1 billion togrogs under the ongoing
IMF PRGF arrangement.
26.   The net international reserves (NIR) of the Bank of Mongolia amounted to US$73.3
million at end-February compared to US$101.7 in December 1999, and a March 31, 2000 target
of US$72.5 million under the PRGF. Mongolia has little room to spare on this indicator, but is
still meeting the target. Through March 14, 2000, BOM's stock of NIR rose to about US$77
million.
27.   During the year-to-date, Government not only eliminated almost of its remaining interest
arrears on its bonds from 1999, but continued to meet interest payments falling due on its bonds,
with the exception of a part of the 1999 interest arrears due to the Savings Bank and January-
February 15 interest payments due the Savings Bank, which were rescheduled over the February
15-April 2000 period.



- 6 -
28.   During the 12 months ending in February 2000, inflation accelerated to 12.3% from 10%
in in December 1999, due to the impact of the Zdud on meat prices and further increases in fuel
prices. In the first half of March 2000, the exchange rate was only about 2.1% higher than in
December 1999 and the value of exports rose 25% during the first two months of 2000, compared
to the same period of 1999, while the value of imports edged up only 1.5%.
29.   Nonetheless, additional measures may be needed to meet the fiscal program targets for
2000 as a result of the Zdud. Any such measures would be discussed during the upcoming
Second Review mission of the Second Year of the PRGF, in which IDA will participate. In
addition, the proposed ADB FSRP would provide funding to help Mongolia adjust to the
macroeconomic effects of the Zdud.
30.   Areas where more attention will be needed to ensure fiscal sustainability and a price
environment conducive to faster economic growth include: (i) containing the growth of
Government-spending: overall Government spending had been increasing far too fast, until 1999,
i.e., by 36% in 1997 and 19% (9% in real terms) in 1998. In 1999, growth in total government
spending slowed to 7% (down slightly in real terms); however, total government spending is
projected to increase about 15% in 2000 (7% in real terms).  This acceleration in spending
growth partly reflects the projected costs of bank restructuring; it also reflects an across-the-board
25% hike in government wages. Any future increases in wages need to be structured in such a
way as to enhance incentives for managerial and professional personnel and be implemented pari
passu with downsizing of the government workforce, so that the total wage bill does not rise
relative to GDP; (ii) much less emphasis on increasing tax rates and instituting new taxes, and
much more emphasis on improving collection of existing taxes; however, to the extent that
raising tax revenue through tax hikes proves indispensable for fiscal sustainability, such tax hikes
should only involve increasing taxes that minimize price distortions (e.g., the VAT); remaining
export taxes should be phased-out as quickly as progress in reducing the fiscal deficit permits;
and (iii) utility prices, which have been kept down over the past year, need to be adjusted both to
ensure fiscal sustainability and curb excess demand.
31.   To this end, the annual macroeconomic indicators included in the proposed FSAC to
assess the soundness of the macroeconomic framework in connection with each tranche release,
include: (i) targets on the General Government's overall deficit, total spending and net lending,
and its total wage bill; and (ii) targets on transfers from General Government, and net domestic
credit, to non-financial state enterprises. In addition, the findings of the upcoming Public
Expenditure Review would be factored into the FSAC macroeconomic indicators for the second
and floating tranches, and into the new PRGF, expected to commence in October 2000.
STRUCTURE AND RECENT PERFORMANCE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
32.   Mongolia's financial system is still evolving to support a market-based economy. At this
point in its transition, it is small and fragile, with recurring insolvencies in the banking system
and high vulnerability to shocks and crises. These weaknesses, together with the narrow range of
available financial services, are constraining private sector development and economic growth.
However, the nature of the financial crisis in Mongolia is not the same as in other crisis countries
in Asia. The problems are those more typical of a transition economy. Firm level surveys have
confirmed that Mongolia is not affected by systemic corporate distress and thus wide-spread
corporate restructuring is not a pre-requisite for financial sector reforms. Nevertheless, as in
other transition economies, there is a need to link financial sector reforms with enterprise sector



-7 -
reforms especially in a small un-diversified economy like Mongolia and this needs to be taken
into account in sequencing of reforms.
33.   The banking sector is small, with total assets of about less than US$180 million, and
heavily over banked. The banking sector is also small relative to the size of the economy--the
ratio of claims on the non-government sector to GDP is only 7.2%. Currently, 12 commercial
banks are licensed (down from 15 in December 1999 and 18 in June 1998), despite the small size
of the economy and BOM's limited supervisory capacity. Four Three banks-TDB, Savings,
Golomt -account for 75% of banking system assets. TDB and Savings Bank (SB) are the largest
and second largest banks respectively although the assets of SB consist almost exclusively of
govemment bonds. Of the remaining banks, the Reconstruction Bank and Agriculture Bank and
Post Bank are of medium-size, each accounting for 4% of bank system assets) but Agricultural
Bank is under receivorship. The other banks are tiny in comparison; little intermediation takes
place through them. The Government has direct and indirect participation in 6 banks, with the
recent liquidation of ITI Bank and Reconstruction Bank. Two of the three largest banks (TDB and
Savings) are fully owned by Government; they hold 61% of total assets. Golomt is the largest
private bank accounting for 15% of bank assets.
34.   Non-bank financial institutions are at an early stage of development. The stock market is
small and illiquid, and insurance and leasing businesses are embryonic; however, they should
evolve into viable, alternative sources of finance under an appropriate institutional and policy
framework. Currently, access to term credit is largely limited to the largest companies that have
links with foreign banks and markets.
35.   Over the past decade, successive Governments have made important efforts to restructure
and develop the financial system to advance Mongolia's transition to a market-based economy.
With donor support, Mongolia put in place the legal infrastructure for a commercial banking
system. Reforms began with the split-up of the state mono-bank into a central bank, the Bank of
Mongolia (BOM), and five commercial banks. In 1991, BOM began licensing private banks and
interest rates were liberalized.
36.   Despite these serious initial efforts and subsequent initiatives to strengthen and liberalize
the financial system, during Mongolia's evolution to a market-base economy, the banking sector
has experienced recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994, 1996 and 1998/1999. The
sector appeared to recover substantially after the 1994 and 1996 setbacks, but these recoveries
were only transitory.
37.   Currently, the banking system is fragile and seriously dysfunctional. There is a severe
shortage of banking skills, and a need for improvements in the legal and institutional framework.
Real lending interest rates are at high levels that jeopardize economic development. Bank loans
are being contracted at annual interest rates of 47%, and banks have been paying 24% for
(domestic currency) time deposits, while inflation is in single digits. The spread between lending
and deposit rates at about 22.5% is also high. Such real interest rates at these levels are unusually
high by any standard, and their economic consequences are having a profound impact on the
economy. High rates may also be contributing to disintermediation.
38.   The factors conspiring to produce such high real rates include: the high proportion of
non-performing assets; increasing perceptions of the riskiness of bank deposits; pressure on the
exchange rate from the huge terms of trade shock and expectations of further depreciation; the



- 8 -
shrinking real money supply; the anti-inflationary stance of monetary policy; and the crowding
out of the private sector on account of excessive Government demand for credit.3
39.    In 1996, the Govemment issued a large amount of bonds as part of the major bank
restructuring exercise that was carried out to close two large insolvent state banks and open-up
two new state banks (Reconstruction Bank and Savings Bank). These local currency bonds now
amount to the equivalent of US$36 million or 20% of total bank assets. Most of these bonds are
held by Savings Bank. Until recently, the Government did not service these bonds regularly, nor
are their terms clearly defined. The failure of the Govemment to pay interest on this debt during
1998 and most of 1999 created illiquidity at the banks holding the bonds, forcing them to push up
deposit rates to attract new deposits in order to service the demands of existing depositors. This
put upward pressure on interest rates throughout the system. The Government's failure to service
its bonds also signaled the absence of a credible Government commitment to honor contracts.
40.    The payment system in rural areas has also been subject to disruptions in recent years due
to both fiscal stringency and to liquidity and solvency problems at Agricultural Bank, the main
provider of such services. The bank is currently under receivership. At present, there are few
altemative viable mechanisms for providing essential financial services in rural areas, as a result
of which there has been an increasing reversion to barter. In the short-term, the priority is to
ensure the timely payment of pensions, salaries, and social security payments even as viable
altematives are examined and developed for providing other banking services; micro-finance
institutions exist, but are at a nascent stage, having little presence outside the capital, Ulaanbaatar.
41.    Government began implementing a new round of financial sector reforms in 1998 with
the support of donors, including the IMF and the ADB.4 At the invitation of the Government, the
World Bank carried out a review of the main issues confronting the financial sector during the
second half of 1999, to lay the ground work for the proposed FSAC. The Financial Sector Review
was discussed and agreed with Govemment, and discussed with other stake holders, including
members of Parliament and other donors. These discussions helped to build a consensus on the
diagnosis of the financial sector's problems. Based partly on the findings of the Financial Sector
Review, Government has developed a Long-Term Vision and Medium-Term Strategy for the
Reform and Development of the Financial Sector.
GOVERNMENT'S LONG-TERM VISION FOR FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
42.    In this Government's Long-Term Vision for the Financial Sector, over the next decade,
Mongolia would move to a financial sector in which:
*  the Authorities' role is limited to the maintenance of macroeconomic and systemic
stability, with intervention only in the event that market forces patently fail to work;
*  there is an effective, autonomous central bank and a legal framework which requires
good prudential regulation and supervision, and prompt corrective action (i.e. the
3An interesting question that can be raised here relates to the link between interest rates and GDP growth: if interest
rates are very high (and have been for some time) then how has GDP managed to expand at an average rate of 3.6% in
the 1994-98 period? On the assumption that growth is correctly estimated, the explanation appears to lie in the
relatively small size of the banking sector in Mongolia and its current dysfunctional state.
4 The ADB has supported bank restructuring through its Financial Sector Program Loan (US$35 million) and an
associated TA loan (US$3 million) over the last three years. The last tranche of the adjustment loan was disbursed in
August 1999 and the loan closed in December 1999. The IMF is also supporting financial reforms through the
ongoing PRGF arrangement (SDR 33.4 million) approved in July 1997.



- 9 -
closure of banks when the capital adequacy ratio declines below a certain minimum
level);
* a relatively small number of domestic and foreign banks, subject to competitive
pressures, efficiently provide banking services;
* all commercial banks are eventually owned by the private sector;
* there is a growing number of non-bank financial institutions (e.g., finance and leasing
companies, contractual savings institutions, cooperatives, and micro-finance
companies) to help meet the demand for savings and investment;
* basic payment and banking services are available to meet demand outside
Ulaanbaatar through a variety of channels (e.g., micro-finance institutions, regional
cooperatives, private banks);
* there is a cadre of bankers and related personnel who have been trained to
international standards; and
* legal and accounting standards are rigorously enforced to uphold public confidence in
the soundness of financial institutions.
GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FINANCIAL
SECTOR
43.   The Govemment recognizes its long-term  vision will take many years to achieve.
Consequently, it has devised a medium-term strategy that will lay the foundations necessary for
achieving this vision over the longer term. This strategy incorporates important lessons learned
during the earlier stages of the reform process, particularly: (a) the importance of having in place
the essential building blocks required to support a market based financial system; (b) that well
functioning financial markets cannot develop without a credible government commitment to
honor contracts and to ensure protection of private property rights; (c) that policy reforms are
much more effective when properly sequenced in order to have in place the essential institutions
without which markets function much less efficiently; (d) that a pervasive involvement of the
state in the allocation of financial resources is incompatible with the development of a market-
based financial system; (e) that recapitalization of insolvent state banks leads to greater losses in
the future; (f) that liberal entry requirements lead to too many poorly managed banks; and (g) that
a sound and effective financial system cannot be built without a legal and institutional framework
that encourages debtors to discharge their commitments to creditors.
44.    Drawing on the above lessons, the Government's Medium-Term Strategy involves the
introduction of reforms that:
. establish the foundations for a market-based financial system, including the
development of modern banking skills, the enhancement of auditing and accounting
standards, the enforcement of financial contracts and the establishment of an exit
policy process for troubled banks;
* signal the government's commitment to uphold private property rights and financial
contracts, beginning with the timely servicing of interest payments on government
bonds held by banks;
. reduce the pervasive role of the state in the allocation of financial resources.
(Government-controlled banks account for 84% of the assets in the banking system);



- 10-
*  facilitate the development of sustainable rural financial institutions to provide
payment systems and banking services appropriate to conditions existing in a
sparsely populated country such as Mongolia;
*  prompt the consolidation of the banking system by doubling the minimum capital
requirement to togrog 2 billion (UJS$1.9 million equivalent);
*  strengthen the legal framework for effective supervision and regulation by the central
bank including the requirement for prompt corrective action;5
*  develop a resolution and liquidation framework for failed banks; and
*  provide the foundations for the development of a market for government bonds.
POLICY REFORM ACTIONS TO FACILITATE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
45.    The Government's Medium-Term Strategy for the Development of the Financial Sector
with the support of the proposed credit would be implemented taking into account the following:
*  The reform and development of the financial sector needs to be closely coordinated
with: (a) a major fiscal correction as part of a macroeconomic reform program (also
supported by the IMF) with evidence of sustainability of that program; and (b) an
action plan to reduce Mongolia's vulnerability to commodity price shocks;
*  an explicit recognition on the part of the Government and its development partners
that the reforms will be a long-term process requiring a series of well-coordinated
interventions with the focus on institutions and capacity building; while the road to
reforms may well be bumpy as political and economic priorities change with changes
in Government and intemational markets, a widely shared consensus behind an
articulated and realistic vision of a financial system will reduce the risk of major
dislocating changes in the transition to a market based financial system and ensure
that the reform process is sustainable;
*  a phasing-in of the reforms in the financial sector to achieve the long term vision in
the following sequence: (a) completion of the ongoing reforms including liquidation
of ITI and Reconstruction Banks, which already has been initiated; (b) adopting a
plan to restructure Agricultural Bank in a manner that will provide appropriate
governance and ensure its commercial viability; (c) taking the initial steps to
implement a medium term-strategy by deepening the reforms to make a decisive
break from the status quo over an 18-month period starting in 2000 (as detailed in the
bullets below); and (d) reviewing the effectiveness of the strategy after the first 18-24
months to assess the actions that need to be taken over the following 2-3 years to
move steadily towards the attainment of the long-term vision;
*  a high priority will be given over the next five years to a continuing program of
technical assistance aimed at intensive human resource development and the creation
of appropriate complementary institutions (including auditing and accounting
standards, enforcement of financial contracts, and the development of a clear exit
The Government and Bank of Mongolia's resolve in this area has been demonstrated by the recent revocation of the
licenses of two distressed state-owned banks, Reconstruction Bank and Investment and Technological Innovation
Bank, and the initiation of their liquidation. All the branches of the two banks have been closed, and it is expected that
the process of liquidation, including the collection of outstanding loans will be completed in mid-2000. which are
currently under receivership.



- I1 -
policy mechanism for troubled banks) that form the essential financial infrastructure
for a market based financial system;
*   the development of sustainable rural financial institutions and markets to provide
payment systems and banking services appropriate to conditions existing in a
sparsely populated country such as Mongolia and which can respond flexibly to on-
going structural changes in agriculture and in particular livestock production over the
coming decade; in the interim, given the dysfunctional state of existing financial
institutions, a high priority needs to be given to maintain minimum financial services
(in particular payment services) in rural areas by de-coupling them from the
provision of banking services;
*   consolidation  and  establishment of a core banking  system  to  foster systemic
soundness and effective competition by (a) encouraging the emergence of a small
number of sound banks through a doubling of the minimum capital requirements to
togrog 2 billion (about US$ 1.9 million equivalent); and (b) strengthening Savings
Bank (SB) by (i) ensuring that the Government has paid its interest arrears on the
US$26 million equivalent in restructuring bonds that SB holds as assets and will
service these bonds on a timely basis in future, and (ii) implementing a program of
technical assistance to improve its banking skills and corporate governance to
facilitate the adoption of a time-bound exit strategy from its current status as a state-
owned deposit-taking institution investing almost exclusively in Government bonds;
e   reduction in the role of the Government in the allocation of financial resources with
the divestiture by Government of a controlling share holding in the Trade and
Development Bank to a strategic private sector investor(s) with intemational banking
experience; for the sale to be effective the following elements would be essential
components of any successful transaction: (a) transparency in the bidding and
evaluation process; (b) unambiguous transfer of board and management control to the
strategic private sector investor; (c) the tender of not less than 51% of all existing
shares; (d) the strategic private investor buyer should have internationally recognized
banking skills and have a plan, or an internationally diversified portfolio, to deal with
portfolio diversification problems inherent in Mongolia; (e) all legal issues relating to
ownership of the bank and its charter will have been addressed prior to the sale; and
(i) no new institution will be created as part of the divestiture process; and any assets
returned or turned down by the buyer will be disposed off directly or through
MARA;6
*   enhancing the effective regulation and supervision of the financial system  by: (a)
further tightening of prudential norms to ensure that classification of assets also
6 Before appraisal, Govemment had presented to Parliament a bill excluding TDB from the list of properties not to be
privatised. Attached to the bill is a proposal for the Govemment to dispose of 51% of the shares of TDB, which
would reduce the Govemment's stake to 19%. Parliamentary approval of the bill is required before the Govemment
can dispose of its stake in TDB. During appraisal, and confirmed during negotiations, the Govemment explained that:
(a) the bill is limited to requesting Parliament's approval to exclude TDB from the list of firms that cannot be
privatised; (b) the paper calls for the divestment of a 51 percent of TDB shares and the Govemment has indicated that it
has the legal powers to decide the amount of shares that it will need to divest to make such a sale possible and that it is
not restricted to sell a specific percentage to a strategic private investor; and (c) it is willing to sell a controlling
shareholding to a private investor. The attachment to the bill also envisages equity shareholding by ADB or IFC.
Involvement of ADB and/or IFC will facilitate the sale as these two institutions have a policy to exit out of such an
investment within two years and their shares should be available to the strategic investor. ADB/IFC involvement is
likely to help the sale of TDB to a strategic private investor. The ADB supports this approach. The principles and
procedures that will guide the privatisation process have been defined consistent with the policy reform actions given
in the text.



- 12 -
covers off-balance sheet items and other categories of non-loan assets; and (b)
making changes in legislation to: (i) require "Prompt Corrective Action" by BOM
when the capital of any bank declines below 75% and 50% of the minimum CAR
required); (ii) ensure that other prompt and effective actions by BOM are triggered by
objective factors established by the law including legal evidence of fraud, legal
evidence of incompetent management or when the bank fails to comply with orders
issued by the BOM pursuant to the provisions of the law and pertaining regulations;
(iii) provide for a timely and effective failure resolution mechanism to prevent further
erosion of troubled bank assets and provide protection to depositors; this resolution
mechanism is to be automatically activated whenever the Capital Adequacy Ratio
(CAR) of any bank declines below 25% of the minimum required level or the bank
suspends payments to liability holders; and (iv) enable the effective liquidation of the
residual assets of the troubled bank if the resolution process fails;
*  setting the stage for the development of money markets by replacement of the
restructuring Bonds held by SB by marketable securities in the next 18 months; and
*  enhancing asset recovery and reducing the future incidence of non-performing loans
by (a) strengthening the Credit Information Bureau through an agreement on the
protocol for sharing information on loan defaulters between the commercial banks
sharing the information and the BOM; and (b) strengthening the ability of MARA to
collect and dispose of assets.
46.   The above actions, if implemented effectively, should have a substantial impact in
enhancing the efficiency and soundness of the banking system, reversing disintermediation, and
improving the allocation of resources to productive uses. A reduction in non-performing loans,
enhanced efficiency afforded by a more efficient banking system and a reduction in the riskiness
of the banking system should help to increase bank profitability and lower interest rates by a
significant margin. An improvement in the culture of repaying loans will also enhance the
availability of credit in the economy. A reduction in the distortions in the financial sector will
also facilitate the establishment and sustainability of macroeconomic stability. Actions
undertaken with the support of the Bank's Commodity Initiative should also help to reduce the
volatility of public finances and the vulnerability of the real economy to terms of trade shocks.
Taken together these benefits will facilitate a higher growth path for the economy and help to
reduce poverty by making credit and financial services more accessible to small entrepreneurs
and the rural economy.
PROJECT RATIONALE
47.   The proposed credit will support implementation of the Government's Medium-Term
Strategy and thereby contribute to the attainment of a sound and efficient banking system, faster
economic growth and enhanced welfare gains.
48.   Role and Importance of Financial Sector Development in the Mongolian Economy.
The small size of banking sector raises two concerns. It could be argued that even if all the
reforms proposed under the operation are implemented one can only expect, in the medium term,
a limited impact on the economy and living standards and that it will require a long time for the
financial sector to reach a stage of development needed to facilitate economic growth. There is



- 13 -
also the question whether corporate restructuring should be a pre-requisite for financial sector
reforms.7 Empirical evidence from recent research helps address these important questions.
49.    Over the past decade, a series of papers provide convincing cross-country evidence that
there is a causal link between financial development and economic growth, and that the potential
growth gains associated with financial sector development are large"
50.    In addition, a recent econometric analysis of World Bank loans related to the financial
sector from 1985-96 indicates that countries with a low level of financial development such as
Mongolia, at the time of loan adoption, experienced the most financial deepening (that is, the
most improvement on the standard indicators of financial development)9
51.    The evidence also suggests that countries at Mongolia's relatively low level of financial
development have, on average, experienced nearly a doubling of their financial indicators after
World Bank loans focused on the financial sector. That doubling would imply about 1% greater
real growth per year according to the econometric specifications in the King/Levine papers
mentioned above.
52.    Linkage of reforms to the  Enterprise  Sector. In terms of the second question of
whether corporate restructuring should be a pre-requisite for financial sector reforms, it should be
noted that the nature of the financial crisis in Mongolia is not the same as that in other crisis
countries in Asia. In Mongolia there was not a long period of rapid loan growth leading to asset
price inflation and excess capacity in the corporate sector; rather, the problems are those more
typical of a transition economy where corporate sector reform needs to move hand in hand with
financial sector restructuring which is the approach we have been following broadly in Mongolia
as mentioned above. Firmn level surveys have confirmed that there is not systemic corporate
distress is not an issue in Mongolia. Therefore, wide-spread corporate sector restructuring is not a
pre-requisite for financial sector reforms.
53.    The proposed FSAC builds-on a single tranche adjustment operation focusing on the
banking and enterprise sectors of Mongolia supported by IDA, and project and TA lending for
private sector development. The Private Sector Development Credit, approved in FY99,
comprises a line of credit to support private enterprise development with TA for participating
financial intermediaries and the Credit Information Bureau); The Banking and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (BESAC), approved in FY97, was focused on enterprise sector reforms and
the issue of NPLs; The Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC),
approved in FY97, provides assistance in banking, enterprise restructuring and the legal
framework for insolvency. (Annex 4 shows the projects funded by IDA.) These three credits
feature enterprise reforms and private enterprise development. Hence, the proposed FSAC is part
of a sequenced program of assistance to the financial and enterprise sectors, and would promote
private enterprise development by facilitating improved financial intermediation. It isanticipated
that the proposed FSAC will be complemented by a technical assistance project for supporting the
development of basic financial infrastructure.
7Ross Levine, in the opening remarks in his 1999 review of the literature on financial development and economic
growth, cites the 1952 quote from the economist Joan Robinson that, "where enterprise leads finance follows." The
questions raised about the priority of financial sector reforms in Mongolia echo that sentiment. See Levine, Ross,
"Financial Development and Economic Growth: Views and Agenda," Joumal of Economic Literature, June, 1997,
35(2), pp. 688-726.
8For a list of papers by King, Levine and others on this subject, please refer to the source quoted in the previous
footnote.
9See Robert Cull, Lemma Senbet, and Marco Sorge, "Deposit Insurance and Financial Development," World Bank and
University of Maryland, mimeo, March 2000.



- 14 -
54.   Expected Impact on Interest Rates Under the proposed FSAC, Govemment would pay
market-based interest rates on its outstanding bonds and will make budgetary allowances for this
purpose. This will alleviate the liquidity problems faced by Savings Bank and obviate the need
for Savings Bank to pay premium interest rates to attract depositors. This will reduce the pressure
on economy-wide interest rates.
55.   Choice of FSAC as an Instrument for Reform. The option of a structural adjustment
credit SAC rather than an FSAC was considered but it was concluded that FSAC was better
suited for strengthening the financial sector, which by consensus amongst all stakeholders is of
the highest priority in Mongolia. However, actions have been included in the FSAC policy matrix
(under the macroeconomic framework) to reduce vulnerability to external shocks, one of the
major economic problems facing Mongolia. These actions include adoption and implementation
of a time-bound action plan to mitigate terms of trade shocks. This action plan will focus on two
areas which have a direct impact on the financial system: (a) volatility in public finances; and (b)
mitigating commodity price risks.  It also will include actions to enhance Mongolia's
competitiveness.
56.   Mongolia has been selected as an Early Test Case in the Bank's Commodity Initiative,
and work on this has commenced. It is anticipated that action plan will include measures initiated
under the Commodity Initiative.
57.   Fiscal consolidation, privatization and governance are already being addressed by on-
going programs of the IMF, USAID, and ADB. At the same time there is a universal consensus
among all major stakeholders that the fragility and inefficiency of the financial system is a major
impediment to consolidating fiscal sustainability and accelerating economic growth.
58.   A second issue relates to the timing and sequencing of the FSAC operation and a
proposed TA operation that would complement the FSAC by improving basic financial structure.
An altemative to the parallel processing of the two operations is to do a TA first and follow-up
with an adjustment operation later.
59.   Mongolia urgently needs additional balance of payment support via the proposed FSAC
to ensure a less costly adjustment to a large terms of trade shock.Mongolia also will need and has
requested a World Bank Financial Sector TA operation. It is expected that such a TA operation
would come on stream in 2001, following the completion of the ADB's banking sector TA
program, and grant TA that USAID is currently providing to help Government implement key
financial sector reforms. Nothing would be gained by delaying the FSAC and much would be
lost, as Mongolia would in those circumstances be obliged to undergo a more drastic adjustment
to the external shock, with significant negative impacts for firms, the financial sector and
individuals.
IDA EXPERIENCE WITH POLICY LENDING IN MONGOLIA
60.   The lessons learned from the single tranche BESAC approved in 1997 provides relevant
experience for the proposed FSAC. On the banking sector front, BESAC supported the following
key objectives: (i) implementation of the 1996-97 bank restructuring exercise; (ii) stepping-up the
commercial bank loan recovery effort; and (iii) implementation of enterprise reform that
complemented the banking sector strategy.
61.   The ICR issued on June 25, 1999, found the outcome of the BESAC, on the whole, to be
satisfactory, and that, with few exceptions, the BESAC achieved most of its objectives. The main



- 15 -
lessons learned from this operation, applicable to new operations in the financial sector are as
follows:
*  The importance of a multiple-tranche structure in order to ensure continued
Government commitment to the project's success. The strong commitment of the
Government was critical in achieving the project's objectives. When the
Government's attention phased itself out, implementation performance suffered.
*  Tranche disbursements should be linked to implementation and operational
effectiveness. BESAC envisaged the submission of a draft insolvency law to
Parliament prior to credit effectiveness, but no further action was contemplated to
implement the law. Similarly, in the case of the Credit Information Bureau, BESAC
focused its emphasis on the creation of a new institution, rather than on its
operational functioning and achievements.
*  Legal Infrastructures, Banking Reforms, and Credit Structure. Reform of the banking
sector in transitional economies is a very slow process that requires investment and
changes in institutions, legal infrastructures, and human capital. Consequently, more
attention could have been paid to the structure of the Credit, in the sense that a two-
tranche operation would have allowed the Bank to include and monitor--certain
critical objectives that normally take more time to be achieved.
*  Greater attention should be paid to the fiscal consequences of banking sector
reforms, in order to better assess the short- and long-term costs of the proposed
reform program.
-  Institution-Building and Technical Assistance. When institution building is crucial
for a project's objectives, as it is in transitional economies, structural adjustment
operations that provide a broad agenda for reforms in particular sectors should be
accompanied and supported by technical assistance projects. BESAC and BELTAC
constituted a good attempt at implementing this simple principle.
62.   The design of the proposed operation has taken into consideration the lessons learned
from the BESAC. It has also taken into account lessons learned from other World Bank financial
sector operations involving privatization. In particular the relatively successful Argentine bank
privatization program highlighted the importance of agreeing with the Government upfront what
will constitute an acceptable privatization transaction.
FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
63.   Development Objectives. The proposed FSAC supports legal, institutional and policy
reforms aimed at establishing a sound and efficient banking sector needed for macroeconomic
stability, faster economic growth, and progressive improvements in living standards.
64.   Policy Actions Supported by the Loan. A letter of development policy confirming a
vision, a medium-term strategy, and an agreed matrix of policy reforms will provide the
foundations for this credit. The broad areas of policy reform that would be supported by this loan
are summarized above (para. 45 above), and in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex I). The
proposed Board, effective and tranche conditions are detailed in the Policy Matrix (Annex 2).
65.   Coordination with Stakeholders. The Bank has consulted closely with all stakeholders
on important aspects of this operation and in particular with respect to the Letter of Development



- 16 -
Policy (LDP) and the Policy Matrix, which includes the vision for financial sector development
and the measures needed to implement that vision. The discussion on the vision and strategy for
financial sector reforms have taken place in the context of Financial Sector Development
Performance Group (FSDPG). The details of this discussion in this forum as well as other
interactions with stakeholders are outlined in the section under the risk below.
66.   Prior to negotiations, the Bank invited staff of the Asian Development Bank to participate
in technical discussions with the Mongolian Delegation on the LDP and the Policy Matrix. The
objective of ADB's participation was to set out a coordinating framework between ADB, IDA
and the Government of Mongolia regarding the financial sector. Senior staff from the ADB staff
attended the technical discussions and provided valuable comments and suggestions on the
subject. The tripartite discussions led to agreement on the LDP (which includes the vision for the
development of the financial sector and the strategy for achieving that vision) and FSAC policy
matrix.
67.   Tripartite discussions (Government, ADB, and IDA) were held in Ulaanbataar during
March 26-29, 2000 to determine the scope of a coordinated ADB and IDA approach for
supporting the Govemment's financial sector reform program. Agreement was reached in the
tripartite discussions that the Government, ADB and IDA will support a common Letter of
Development Policy and a common Policy Matrix, without cross conditionalities. ADB, through
its planned June 2000 US$15 million FSRP, will support the NBFI component of the
Government's Medium-Term Strategy for the Development of the Financial Sector, enhancing
sustainability of financial sector reforms.
68.   Borrower and Loan Amount. The Government of Mongolia will be the borrower. The
proposed credit amount is US$32 million (SDR 24 million), corresponding to Mongolia's
projected balance of payments financing gaps during 2000-02. The proposed FSAC will be made
under standard terms for IDA countries. The Government of Mongolia has formally requested a
US$5 million TA credit to be prepared in FY2001 to support implementation of basic financial
sector infrastructure as envisaged under the proposed FSAC.
69.   Disbursement and Procurement. The proposed credit would be a multi-tranche
operation designed to release the first tranche (effectiveness) of US$12 million equivalent in the
second quarter of 2000. For this purpose, a Deposit Account will be opened at the Bank of
Mongolia as is the case for all simplified Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs). The second
tranche of US$12 million equivalent is expected to be released about 18 months thereafter. The
proposed FSAC also envisages a floating tranche of US$8 million equivalent tied to the
divestiture of the Government's ownership (at least 51% of total shares) of the Trade and
Development Bank (TDB) to a strategic investor(s) with intemational banking experience. Given
the complexity of the privatization process, this multi-tranche arrangement is designed to allow
the reform program to go ahead while giving the Government greater flexibility in meeting its
commitment on TDB. Credit proceeds will not be disbursed against expenditures normally
excluded from adjustment credits.
70.   If any portion of the Credit is used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Credit
Agreement, IDA will require the Government either to return that amount to the Deposit Account
for use of eligible purposes or refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel
an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. As disbursement will not be linked to specific
purchases, evidence to support disbursements will not be required. To secure the release of each
tranche, the Govemment will submit a simplified Withdrawal Application against which IDA will
disburse the Credit proceeds into the Deposit Account for the Government's use.



- 17 -
71.   Accounts and Audit. The Bank of Mongolia, on behalf of the Government, will maintain
an appropriate accounting system, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
providing all necessary information on the receipt and use of funds channeled through the Deposit
Account and will prepare annual financial statements in a format to be agreed at negotiations. The
Financial Statements will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under
the terms of reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with acceptable international auditing
standards. The audited Financial Statements will be submitted within four months of the
Government's fiscal year ending December 31 and annually, thereafter.
72.   Environmental  Assessment Requirements. In  accordance  with  the  Bank's
environmental policies (OP 4.01) sectoral adjustment loans are subject to the Bank's EA
requirements. This is a sectoral adjustment credit providing purely balance of payments support
to the economy and is not anticipated to have any environmental impacts. For the purposes of
environmental rating the proposed FSAC has been categorized as a Category C project. The
project is categorized as a C because there are no directly identifiable environmental impacts
associated with the proposed policy interventions. To address environmental impacts associated
with its future downstream activities, the Agricultural Bank's restructuring plan will include
developing and adopting procedures acceptable to IDA for screening, evaluating, and mitigating
the potential adverse environmental impacts of its future operations.
RISKS
73.    The following are the significant risks to the proposed operation:
*  The consensus on specific policy measures supported by the FSAC fails to hold and
prevents Parliamentary ratification of the credit.
*  The forthcoming elections in June 2000 may weaken ownership of the FSAC reform
program due to a change in administration.
*  The macroeconomic program could be pushed off track by the unusually severe
winter weather and/or policy slippages.
*  Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from vested interests
(e.g., in banks to be liquidated or privatized).
*  The high level of non-performing loans in the banking system could undermine
efforts to restore the sector to health if they remain unresolved.
74.   The proposed operation cannot be fully insulated from the political risks, particularly
those emanating from the proximity to the June 2000 elections, but they can be mitigated, as
outlined below. At the same time, it should be noted that the timing of the operation yields
significant benefits, given the context: The Bank, together with other donors, has engaged the
Government in a dialog on financial sector reforms during the last 15 months and an agreement
was reached on the program of medium-term policy reforms described above and in the attached
policy matrix. However given the proximity of the June 2000 Parliamentary elections, there is
only a limited time window of opportunity for the present Government to implement the agreed
measures that the first tranche of the credit would support. Implementing these actions, many of
which have already been undertaken, before this window closes, will allow the momentum of
financial sector reforms to be maintained without interruption.



- 18 -
75.    To ensure that a sufficiently broad consensus exists not only for the Government's Long-
Term Vision and Strategy for the Development of the Financial System but also for the specific
actions needed to implement the proposed FSAC, the task team held extensive consultations with
Members of Parliament from both the Government Coalition and the opposition party. Feedback
from these consultations indicates that the broad reform program supported by the FSAC has the
backing of members of Parliament on both sides of the aisle. This is important because the less
than two-thirds majority that the Government has in Parliament ensures that it will not be possible
to secure ratification of the credit by Parliament without the support of members of the opposition
(because the opposition has sufficient votes to block a quorum and ratification of the credit).
76.    The credit will be presented to Parliament for ratification in the current parliamentary
session.
77.    Sustainability is likely to be enhanced by: (a) the cooperation arrangement between IDA
and ADB, in the form of concomitant financial sector operations to support the Govemment's
financial sector reform program, as set out in the common Letter of Development Policy and
Policy Matrix; (b) the multi-tranche structure of the proposed operation with the tranche releases
back-loaded so that only US$12 million of the total amount (US$32 million) could be disbursed
prior to the elections, provided the credit is ratified by Parliament and all effectiveness conditions
have been met; (c) the broad consensus that has been forged as part of the FSAC process among
key stakeholders on the Long-Term   Vision and m Medium- Term   Strategy for f Financial
Sector Development;' and (d) close coordination with the IMF to ensure that credit proceeds
strengthen fiscal sustainability, in the context of the ongoing IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF). These elements will help foster reform continuity beyond 2000, regardless of
who win the elections.
78.    The Government has a generally good track record on maintaining the reform momentum
even under difficult external and internal conditions, as evidenced by the program it adopted to
put the PRGF back on track in May 1999 and its successful completion of the First Review of the
Second Year of the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility in January 2000. Macro indicators
still appear to be on track, despite pressures on Government spending and inflation from the
severest winter in thirty years. Nonetheless, additional measures may be needed to meet the
fiscal program targets for 2000 in light of the Zdud. Any such measures would be discussed
during the upcoming Second Review mission of the Second Year of the PRGF, in which IDA will
participate. In addition, the proposed ADB FSRP would provide funding to help Mongolia
adjust to the macroeconomic effects of the Zdud.
79.    At the same time, Government and the Bank of Mongolia have forged ahead with
financial sector reforms over the past several months, notwithstanding the huge external and
climatic shocks and the proximity of the June Parliamentary elections, initiating liquidation of
two deeply insolvent large state banks, doubling the minimum capital requirements for banks, and
eliminating almost all arrears on Government bank restructuring bonds. In addition, most of the
future actions that would be supported by the proposed FSAC also are in the purview of the Bank
'0 The Govemment, with the support of the Bank, recently created a Financial Sector Development Performance Group
(FSDPG) to forge a broad consensus on (a) the long-term vision and medium-term strategy for the financial sector; (b)
the specific measures needed to achieve that vision and on the benchmarks to measure progress; and (c) tracking
financial sector development performance over the medium-term to help ensure reform continuity. The FSDPG
includes high-level members of Govemment policy-making bodies; members of Parliament from both sides of the
aisle; and NGO and private sector representatives; and donors, in an advisory role. The FSDPG held a retreat on
February 21, 2000 in which these stake-holder's reached a broad consensus on the Govemment's Long-Term Vision
and Medium-Term Strategy for the Reform and Development of the Financial Sector.



- 19-
of Mongolia, which enjoys considerable autonomy and whose top Authorities current term runs
through December 2002, or well beyond the June 2000 Parliamentary elections and almost until
the Closing Date of the credit.
80.   Mongolia's implementation capacity is generally weak, although the Bank of Mongolia,
which will play a salient role in carrying out the reform measures the proposed credit would
support, has significantly improved its implementation capacity in recentyears. Donors have in
place substantial TA to help Mongolia address implementation issues, including in the financial
sector.
81.   ADB currently has technical assistance in place for the banking sector through end-2000,
and will launch a new TA program for implementation of its FSRPL that will support the NBFI
component of the Government's financial sector reform program. IDA is staggering its own
proposed TA loan to follow the completion of the ADB Banking TA program to support
implementation of the banking sector component of the Government's financial sector reform
program beyond 2000. Over the short-term, USAID is providing TA to the Bank of Mongolia to
assist it in carrying out several of the reform measures linked to the first tranche of the proposed
FSAC.
82.   Although the non-performing loan (NPL) ratio is very high (53%), actual NPLs amount
to only US$35 million (about 3.5% of GDP) and less than 20% of total banking system assets. Of
these bad loans, US$23 million are concentrated in Reconstruction Bank, ITI Bank and
Agriculture Bank; the first two banks, which account for US$20 million or 57% of all NPLs, are
in the process of liquidation, expected to be completed within six months, and the third one is
under receivership. The proposed FSAC will support other measures to further reduce NPLs,
such as strengthening MARA, Mongolia's asset management company, and strengthening the
Credit Information Bureau to pool information on defaulting borrowers.



- 20 -
RECOMMENDATION
83.   I am satisfied that this the proposed credit complies with the Articlesof Agreement of the
International Development Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
March 29, 2000



- 21-                           Annex 1
Ulaanbatar, March 29, 2000
MONGOLIA
Letter of Development Policy
Long-Term Vision, Medium-Term Strategy and Policies for the Financial Sector
Reform Program
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
1818 H. St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Subject: Proposed IDA Financial Sector Adjustment Credit for the Financial Sector Reform
Program
1.    The Government is pleased to request the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the
International Development Association (IDA) to jointly finance the financial sector reform
program for Mongolia. We are happy that both institutions are coordinating their efforts to
support the program. This is an excellent example of donor coordination and partnership. The
comprehensive approach to developing the financial sector that encompasses both banks and non-
bank financial intermediaries, involving other donors such as USAID, JICA, GTZ, is an
extremely positive development for Mongolia. The fact that we are writing a joint letter attached
with a joint policy matrix to the presidents of the two international financial institutions bears
testimony that we welcome close donor coordination in the financial sector. We are sending the
same letter to President Chino of the ADB.
Background
2.    A decade ago this past December 10, 1999, Mongolia embarked on a radical and
comprehensive reform path-indeed, the path we choose entailed nothing less than abrupt
systemic change encompassing all spheres of the nation's political, economic and social life. If
one compares our situation today with that at the end of 1989, one finds that while Mongolia still
faces many daunting challenges, we have made great strides in reshaping our lives and our
destiny for the better.
3.    Today, all citizens of Mongolia have the right and the opportunity to set their own goals,
and to choose freely how best to accomplish these goals. Freedom of choice is perhaps the most
priceless achievement of this remarkable decade in Mongolian history.
4.    In 1990, Mongolia held its first free elections. These were an embodiment of the notion
of pluralism and resulted in the formation of a new Cabinet from three different political parties,
through which the basis for the ensuing comprehensive reforms of Mongolian society was
established. Subsequently, under the 1992 Constitution, Mongolia has held two free and



- 22 -                          Annex 1
democratic parliamentary elections, as well as two presidential elections. New political parties
have emerged, and the oldest one has evolved into a new democratic force.
5.    The transformation of the economy has been equally dramatic. The reforms launched by
the first democratic government in 1990-1992, including price liberalization, establishment of a
new banking and financial system, and privatization, laid the foundation for the development of a
private, market economy in Mongolia. The sweeping transformation of the economy which has
taken place in this decade was a direct outcome of those first reforms.
6.    The majority of the Mongolian people have come to comprehend in a relatively short
period of time the necessity of relying on their own visions, abilities and drive to meet the
challenges of the new era. At the same time, this decade has seen the emergence of new social
problems such as unemployment and poverty. These were the inevitable result of the withdrawal
of the large external subsidies which had previously financed the operations of the entire
Mongolian economy and social services to the tune of more than 30% of our GDP, and of the
collapse of COMECON trading block. No country could endure or has endured such a dramatic
shock without experiencing a period of hardship. It is precisely for this reason that Mongolia has
embarked on a path of drastic institutional and structural reforms in all spheres of the economy,
and intends to continue on this path in the future. Our national program of institutional, structural
and policy reform is aimed at reducing the hardships of the transitional period, overcoming this
period in the shortest time possible, and creating a solid foundation for the future development of
an efficient economy and the progressive advancement of our society.
7.    Substantial progress already has been achieved on the economic front. Mongolia has had
five consecutive years of economic growth, and the economy expanded again, by 3.3%, in 1999
despite a further pronounced deterioration in our terrns of trade. Inflation has been brought down
to single digits. The livestock sector, the backbone of the Mongolian economy, has been
privatized, and dynamic private companies also are operating in many other key sectors of the
economy. A thriving small business sector is generating jobs and incomes for large numbers of
our people. The November 1999 employment report shows that open unemployment has dropped
below 6% of the labor force. This is suggestive of the underlying dynamism of our economy-an
economy whose structure is on the way to being rebuilt, in the course of a decade.
8.    At the same time, many serious challenges remain to be overcome. The external
environment has tumed extremely unfavorable, leading to excessive trade and budget imbalances
and a sharp deterioration in the banking system which must and are being addressed through
painful adjustment measures. The need for policies which will achieve more rapid economic
growth and improvement in the living standards of the Mongolian people in the face of such a
difficult environment is urgent, and that is we why have acted to take the measures needed to both
minimize the costs of our adjustment to the huge external shock, and to lay the foundation for
more rapid economic growth in the future. And we have done this despite an unfortunate cycle of
political turmoil during 1998 and 1999. The banking sector is still very weak and unable to play
its proper role in promoting economic growth. Some important sectors of the economy are still
predominantly state-owned, and others, although privatized, are still not competitive and
generating growth. The Government itself, which must lead the national process of transition to a
more productive and efficient society and economy, has undergone relatively less structural
change. Mongolia has barely begun to address the question of how to deliver necessary social
services to its population without the large external subsidies which had previously financed
them.



- 23 -                          Annex 1
9.    We are very fortunate in that we have many generous and reliable development partners,
and as discussed at the Seventh Mongolia Assistance chaired by the World Bank in June 1999,
Mongolia needs a transitory increase in donor aid to enable us to carry out the needed measures to
adjust to the huge external shock-a shock totaling an estimated 17% of GDP during 1998-99-
in a phased manner so as to avoid undue welfare losses. To this end, and to support a series of
reforms aimed at creating a sound and efficient financial system needed for faster economic
growth, we are requesting a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit from the IDA (the Association),
in the amount of US$32 million equivalent, and a Financial Sector Reform Program Loan from
the ADB in the amount of US$15 million equivalent to support the projected 2000 to mid-2003
balance of payments financing gap.
Macroeconomic Framework
10.   Terms of Trade Shocks. The sharp falls in 1998-99 in world prices for copper, gold and
cashmere, Mongolia's leading exports, have caused great harm to the Mongolian economy. In
1998, export earnings plunged US$150 million (or by amount equal to about 15% of GDP), due
entirely to these price declines. This led to a cumulative depreciation of the exchange rate of
35%, and to a drop in official reserves. The sharp contraction in the value of exports due to the
fall in commodity prices reduced Government revenues by almost 4% of GDP in both 1998 and
1999, relative to the level of 1997. Corporate taxes from the copper sector declined from 3% of
GDP to nil in 1998, and in 1999.
11.   Due to the steep decline in world prices for copper, the Erdenet Copper Concern also has
been unable to settle its bills with the Energy Authority, the Oil Importing Company, and electric
power stations, making it difficult for the latter to pay money owed to the coal mining companies
and to the railways. All of these firms have in turn been unable to pay their expected taxes and
dividends to the state budget. This created a cascading of arrears in the economy, causing
slowdowns in the activities of these major producers, and a large increase in the Govemment's
budget deficit-from 8.6 to 11.7% of GDP from 1997 to 1998, and in the creation of domestic
credit to finance the deficit (to 3% of GDP in 1998). As a result, in 1998, the Government fell
into arrears on payments of salaries and pensions. This external shock also contributed to a
marked deterioration in financial sector perfornance, with non-perforining loans rising to about
41% of total commercial bank loans.
12.   The Govemment has acted with determination to address the imbalances caused by the
terms of trade shock. The Value Added Tax Law was adopted and became effective on July 1,
1998. In September 1998, the VAT was raised from 10 to 13%, a 10% tax of the export of gold
was adopted, and the excise tax of imported petroleum and petroleum products was raised by
US$7 a ton. In addition, the 1999 budget froze wages and salaries, and reduced outlays on goods
and services.
13.   Government's Fiscal Program. In May 1999, Government adopted a comprehensive,
medium-term program to adjust to the impact of the terms of trade shock, including a package of
measures to augment fiscal revenue by a further 2% of GDP annually and reduce capital spending
and net lending by about 1% of GDP, with the support of the second year of the PRGF
Arrangement, approved in June 1999, whose first review we successfully completed in January
2000. These fiscal measures, coupled with the 1998 tax increases, cut the overall deficit of the
general Government to 9.9% of GDP in 1999, from 11.7% in 1998. This adjustment, together
with higher net external financing with the support of the PRGF, reduced the Government's use
of net banking system credit in 1999 to less than 1% of GDP, compared to 3% of GDP in 1998.
The full-year effects of these tax measures, together with public administration reform and further



-24 -                           Annex 1
privatization, are projected to narrow the General Government's overall deficit to 7.3% of GDP in
2000, and to 5.3% by 2002, with zero net domestic credit to Government beginning in 2000.
Inflation, which was brought down to 6% in 1998 (from 21% in 1997 and 45% in 1996), rose to
10% by the end of 1999 due to the impact of lagged relative price adjustments to the external
shock and excessive credit extended to the Govemment in 1998. It is projected to decelerate to
7% in 2000. At the end of 1999, the total General Government debt reached an estimated 78% of
GDP, with external debt amounting to 71% of GDP. External debt service amounted to less than
6% of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1999, due to the concessional nature of that debt
and the high degree of openness of the economy. During 2000-02, the Government's total debt to
GDP ratio is projected to increase to 79%, and its external debt, to 73% of GDP. At the same
time, economic growth is projected to accelerate to 4-5%.
14.   The Budget for 2000. The Government budget for 2000 seeks to consolidate fiscal
sustainability and free-up resources for the private sector. As mentioned above, the overall deficit
is projected to decline to 7.3% in 2000, and net domestic financing, to zero. The 2000 budget is
geared to reversing the recent decline Government revenues relative to GDP, while reducing
Government spending as a percentage of GDP and improving the prioritization of public
spending. Total revenue is slated to rise to 28.4% of GDP, reflecting a slight increase in income
taxes and dividends from the copper sector, and the full-year effects of the revenue measures
introduced in 1999. Total spending is targeted to fall to 35.7% of GDP, compared to 36.3% in
1999 (and 39% in 1998). The budget makes provisions for the full servicing of public debt,
including Government bonds. Outlays on goods and services will be tightly controlled and
domestically-financed capital expenditures on lower priority projects will be reduced. The
Government also will be undertaking a public expenditure review, with the support of IDA,
during 2000. During 2000, the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit would assist to
achieve the above macroeconomic targets.
15.   Reducing the Size of the State. Steps will also be taken to focus Government on core
functions, outsourcing other activities, and to increase its efficiency, in the context of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) supported Governance Reform Program. Government also is taking
action to improve the governance of state enterprises and curtail their involvement in activities
that could be more efficiently carried out by the private sector. To improve pricing decisions, and
allow state enterprises to operate on a commercial basis, these enterprises will be granted greater
managerial autonomy. Regular financial audits of state enterprises will be instituted. State
enterprises will continue to face hard budget constraints (zero net domestic bank credit), and will
not receive Government transfers. In addition, the Government has expanded its privatization
program, which yielded revenues of about 1.7% of GDP in 1998, to the largest state enterprises.
The National Oil Import Concern and the Gobi Cashmere Company are to be privatized, as is the
Trade and Development Bank (see also paragraph 38 below).
16.   Exchange Rate and Monetary Policy. The Bank of Mongolia has continued to pursue
the flexible exchange rate policy adopted in 1993 and effectively implemented in the last quarter
of 1998 to facilitate the adjustment to the external shock, and will continue to do so in the future.
At the end of 1999 the exchange rate was about 25% higher than at the end of the third quarter of
1998, leading to a depreciation of the Togrog of about 4% in real effective terms. International
reserves also have substantially recovered from their 1998 decline, and official holdings of
external assets reached US$151, or the equivalent of about 14 weeks of imports, compared to less
than 12 in 1998. The primary objective of monetary policy is to keep inflation in single digits.
With the deceleration of inflation during 1998 and for most of 1999, the yield on central bank
bills was progressively lowered, to 10% per annum. As the Government deficit is reduced,
banking reforms advance and inflation decelerates during 2000, reductions in commercial bank



- 25 -                          Annex I
lending interest rates should be feasible. Growth in monetary aggregates would reflect increased
credit to the private sector (with zero net lending to Government and state enterprises) and the
further build-up of net external assets towards an adequate level.
17.   Accelerating Economic Growth and Improving Living Standards. Real GDP growth
over the past few years has grown at a modest pace of 3.5%. With an annual population rate of
2%, per capita GDP has also increased. However, the significant deterioration in the terms of
trade since the second-half of 1996 had have a major adverse impact on the purchasing power of
exports, which account for about 40% of GDP, and, hence, on income and living standards.
18.   Managing External Shocks. Managing external shocks has become imperative if
Mongolia is going to accelerate economic growth and to be able to translate greater output into
higher per capita incomes and declining poverty. Better management of external shocks will lead
to higher living standards by reducing fiscal and monetary volatility, reducing uncertainty,
enhancing financial sector performance, and mitigating drastic swings in producer and consumer
incomes. To this end, under the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), the
Government would adopt a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve
management of external shocks. It is envisaged that this action plan will encompass measures to
smooth-out fiscal revenues, and measures to manage commodity price risk to shield producer
incomes from the full impact of commodity price fluctuations. On the latter, we hope that
Mongolia will qualify as an early test case under the World Bank's Commodity Initiative.
Current Situation of the Financial Sector
19.   The financial sector in Mongolia is slowly evolving to a market-based system, but is still
not able to contribute to the development of the economy, and has instead been a drag on
economic development. Consolidated banking sector indicators have improved in the past several
months thanks to the implementation of measures taken in connection with the 1996 Financial
Sector Program Loan (FSPL) funded by ADB and continued under the Banking Restructuring
Action Plan of 1999 and the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit to be funded by the
Association. Currently the banking sector also meets the international criteria for capital
adequacy (10%) and liquidity (18%). The financial sector, however, remains weak and financial
intermediation continues to be severely constrained. Building on ADB's assistance under the
FSPL in support of bank restructuring, further restructuring is needed to support the development
of viable core private banks.
20.   At end-1999, total bank assets amounted to only 18 percent of GDP, while total credit
outstanding to the private sector was only about 5 percent of GDP. Four large banks out of 12
currently licensed banks hold 80 percent of total assets of the banking system. The Savings Bank,
one of the largest banks, does not perform any financial intermediation functions. The remaining
8 banks have only negligible market shares, have little capacity to compete with the largest 4
banks, and conduct limited financial intermediation activities. The state directly and indirectly
owns shares of 6 banks. These include controlling shareholding of 3 banks (Trade and
Development Bank, Savings Bank and Agriculture Bank), which together account for 70 percent
of total assets of the banking system.
21.   Non-bank financial institutions are at an incipient stage of development. The stock
market is small and illiquid; and market-based insurance and leasing businesses are only
beginning to emerge. Nevertheless, considerable potential exists for development of non-bank
financial institutions as a competing force, provided a suitable legal environment is created.



- 26 -                            Annex I
Currently, long-term credit exists only in the following two forms: through project financing from
some commercial banks that serve as on-lenders of credit extended to the Government by donors,
or through establishing relationships with foreign banks and markets.
22.    The financial sector has recently witnessed the expansion of credit cooperatives and
micro finance companies. These institutions are expected to play a greater role as effective
providers of small credit. Finance companies and financial leasing companies are also beginning
to emerge. In line with development of these non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), the
Government is committed to providing a suitable legal environment including improving
supervisory and regulatory oversight of these institutions by BOM .
23.    During the last 10 years the Government of Mongolia has taken an important series of
actions aimed at establishing a market-based banking system, its restructuring and development.
Mongolia replaced the one-tier banking system by a two-tier one; put in place the foundations of
the legal framework for banking operations; licensed private banks; and liberalized interest rates
and capital flows, with the assistance of the donor community. Since 1996, a series of actions
have been taken to further modernize banking legislation, strengthen prudential norms and bank
supervision, and to restructure the banking sector.
24.    Although policies on banking sector reforms, restructuring and liberalization of financial
transactions have been broadly moving in the right direction, the banking sector has faced several
crises on its transition path (1994, 1996, 1998-1999).
25.    Despite these efforts, the banking sector remains small, weak and crisis-prone. It is still
necessary to considerably improve banking staff skills and capacity, as well as the legal and
operational environment for conducting banking activities.
26.    Real lending interest rates are extremely high. Despite the deceleration of inflation to
single digits, and subsequent reduction in Central Bank bill rates and deposit rates, lending
interest rates remain high in both real and nominal terms. This has adversely impacted financial
intermediation and the entire economy. The main reasons for high lending interest rates are: the
high level of non-performing loans; expectations of currency devaluation resulting from the terms
of trade shock; little competition in the financial sector; weak institutional capacity and failure of
the Government to make timely payments on its financial obligations. High lending interest rates
in turn contribute to deterioration of loan quality.
27.   In 1996, the Government issued bonds in an amount equivalent to 5 percent of GDP to
protect deposits of customers of two insolvent banks, within the framework of the banking sector
restructuring program. Of these bonds, 60 percent is owned by the Savings Bank, and 40 percent
is owned by the Central Bank. The Govemment has failed to make timely payments of interest on
these bonds. Moreover, these bonds have not had clearly defined terms and maturities. The fact
that the Government has failed to meet its obligations on its bonds on a timely basis is
contributing to deterioration of the financial position and efficient decision-making of bond-
holders, and is sending an improper message to the general economy by exercising an unhealthy
practice of not meeting contract obligations.
28.    The rural payments system has had significant, recurring problems due to strained state
and local govemment budgets and lack of creditworthiness of the Agriculture Bank, virtually the
only bank servicing rural areas. This bank is currently operating under the receivership of the
Central Bank and is undertaking restructuring actions such as renewal of service fees on a



- 27 -                           Annex I
contract basis, reduction of operational costs and loan recovery efforts. Currently, operations of
the bank are restricted to providing payments of pensions and benefits as well as salaries. of
government employees in rural areas. Micro-lending institutions in rural areas have been
established only recently in three Aimags, and have not started operating at the soum level.
29.    The capital markets and contractual savings institutions in Mongolia are at a nascent
stage of development. The stock market is small and illiquid; and the pension and insurance
systems have played a limited role in terms of developing alternative sources of funds to finance
economic growth. Despite the smaller size of the capital markets in relation to the banking
sector, the Government recognizes the increasing importance of capital markets in developing the
financial sector in Mongolia.
30.   Market capitalization at the Mongolian Stock Exchange as of December 1999 was $32
million, or 3 percent of GDP, down from $53 million at the end of 1997. Trading activity has
declined sharply over the last year, as evidenced by the drop in average daily trading from
$50,000 in 1998 to about $10,000 in 1999.
31.   The Government recognizes that the small corporate sector and slow progress with regard
to the privatization of the remaining 95 SOEs, the largest of which are likely to be sold to
strategic investors outside of the MSE, has constrained the supply of better quality stock. On the
demand side, limited capacity of MSEC to serve as an effective policymaker and regulator has
dampened investor confidence and necessitates considerable institutional strengthening.
32.   The Government is aware that the 1997 Insolvency Law has seldom been applied in the
resolution of corporate bankruptcies. Under the IDA-assisted Beltac Project and the IDA IDF
Grant for the Insolvency Law, the Government is undertaking measures to strengthen the
knowledge and application of the Insolvency Law by creditors. These measures will help
improve overall corporate governance and accelerate resolution of non-performing loans in the
banking sector and debt recovery. With respect to financial governance, Mongolia is unique in
that its stock exchange is owned by the Government, and we are strongly committed to its
privatization.
33.   The capital markets would further benefit from the development of the pension system.
The Mongolian pension system is a pay-as-you-go system where current work force pay for the
retired workers. Like other transition economies, the pension system has been afflicted by (i)
growing unfunded liabilities; (ii) contribution arrears, particularly from state-owned bodies; and
(iii) a narrow base of pension contributions relative to recipients.
34.    To address these issues, Government pension plan aims to introduce notionally defined
individual pension accounts. In this regard, the Law on Individual Pension Accounts was adopted
by the Parliament on 11 June 1999, under which workers born after 1 January 1960 will be given
individual pension accounts indicating their past pension contributions with effect from 1 January
2000. The annual "returns" to the individual contributions will be determined by the Social
Security Insurance General Office. While the new system will enable pension payments to be
closely linked to contributions, the pension fund will be unfunded for the foreseeable future,
although the Government has plans to invest a part of the contributions of the younger workers in
the domestic capital markets. The Government also plans to introduce non-state voluntary
pensions in Mongolia, to supplement the current "first pillar" pension provisions.  The
Government will be preparing draft legislation to allow the development of a voluntary private
pension system.



-28 -                             Annex I
35.    While Mongolia has a long history with insurance products, there is a lack of operational
and regulatory capacity in the industry. Besides considerable regulatory support, policy and
operational assistance is needed to strengthen the sector.  Except for minimum  capital
requirements of Tug. 100 million ($95,000), there are no prudential requirements governing
solvency in the industry at present. Investment guidelines for insurance companies need to be
strengthened as capital markets gradually develop in the country.
36.    Although the recent policy on financial sector restructuring and actions taken to
implement this policy have generally been moving in the right direction, it is necessary to take
decisive actions to make fundamental changes in the current weak situation, to restore public
confidence, and to establish a strong financial sector capable of  supporting economic
development.
37.    With these objectives in mind, the Long-term Vision and the Medium-term Strategy
necessary to implement this long-term vision for the development of financial sector is
formulated below, and Financial Sector Reform Program Loan. The Government and the Bank
of Mongolia and would be implemented with the support of the proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit consider that the general policy guidelines and specific actions to be taken to
implement the medium-term strategy also should be reflected in the annual Monetary Policy
Guidelines that are approved by Parliament at the end of each year, ensuring ownership and
consensus on the financial sector reforms as we move forward.
Key Lessons Learned from past efforts to Reform the Financial Sector
38.    The following lessons from  the experience of last 10 years of financial sector
restructuring were taken into consideration in determining the long-term vision and medium term
strategy for financial sector development:
*  It is necessary to build the infrastructure aimed at supporting a market-based
financial system, with strong financial discipline and prudential controls.
*  The financial sector will not develop without a state that supports contract
enforcement, protection and securitization of private property.
*  Financial sector restructuring will not be successful unless the sequence of reforms
is determined correctly and a stable political environment exists.
*  State intervention in allocation of financial resources hinders development of a
market-based financial sector.
*  The fact that the state recapitalizes insolvent banks and takes their risks increases
potential losses in the future.
*  Lax entry requirements result in an excessive number of weak, poorly managed
banks.
*  A sound financial sector cannot be created without an appropriate legal framework
and operational structures aimed at strengthening the repayment culture.
*  Capital markets and NBFIs should be developed to complement the banking sector
and foster a balanced financial structure.
*  Investor confidence is crucially dependent on the existence of sound corporate
governance systems and practices in the financial sector.



- 29 -                          Annex I
* The role of the Government in the ownership of financial institutions impairs their
rapid growth as viable entities.
Long-Term Vision for Financial Sector Development
39.   Based on the above lessons and exchange of views with key stakeholders, including
members of Parliament from both sides of the aisle and donors active in the sector, the long-term
vision for the financial sector in Mongolia for the next 10 years is envisaged as follows:
* The role of the state will be directed to ensuring macroeconomic and financial
sector stability, and the state will intervene only in circumstances where market
forces patently fail to work.
* There is an effective, autonomous central bank and a legal framework which
requires good prudential regulation, corporate governance, and supervision and
prompt corrective action (i.e. the closure of banks when the capital adequacy ratio
declines below a certain minimum level);
* A relatively few number of sound and efficient domestic and foreign banks would
emerge and  would be capable of providing efficient banking services in a
competitive environment.
e Ownership of all commercial banks will have been transferred to the private sector.
* Basic payment and banking services are available to meet demand outside
Ulaanbaatar through a variety of channels (e.g., micro-finance institutions, regional
cooperatives, private banks).
*   The financial sector will have a cadre of banking and related personnel trained in
best international practices.
*   The legal environment for conducting financial activities as well as accounting
standards will be rigorously enforced, with the aim of strengthening public confidence
in the financial institutions.
e   There is a growing number of NBFIs (e.g., finance and leasing companies,
contractual savings institutions, cooperatives, and micro-finance companies) to help
meet the demand for savings and investment.
*   A healthy and well governed capital market will be developed to complement the
banking sector.
Medium-term Strategy for Financial Sector Development
40.   The Government recognizes its Long-Term Vision will take many years to achieve.
Consequently, it has devised a Medium-Term strategy that will lay the foundations necessary for
achieving this vision over the longer term. The key elements of the medium term strategy for
financial sector development are as follows:
* establish the foundations for a market-based financial system, including the development
of modem banking skills, the enhancement of auditing and accounting standards, the
enforcement of financial contracts and the establishment of an exit policy process for
troubled banks;



- 30 -                          Annex I
* signal the government's commitment to uphold rights and obligations under financial
contracts, beginning with the timely servicing of interest payments on government
bonds held by banks;
* reduce the pervasive role of the state in the allocation of financial resources-until the
revocation of the licenses in December 2000 of the deeply insolvent ITI and RB Bank,
government controlled banks accounted for about 90% of the assets in the banking
system;
* facilitate the development of sustainable rural financial institutions to provide payment
systems and banking services appropriate to conditions existing in a sparsely populated
country such as Mongolia;
* prompt the consolidation of the banking system by doubling the minimum capital
requirement to T2 billion (about US$1.9 million);
* strengthen the legal framework for effective supervision and regulation by the central
bank including the requirement for prompt corrective action;
* develop a resolution and liquidation framework for failed banks;
* provide the foundations for the development of a market for government bonds and an
inter-bank market;
* strengthen corporate governance in the financial sector by encouraging banks to move
towards international standards such as the guidelines on corporate govemance in
banking institutions issued by the Bank for International Settlements;
* foster a healthy capital market by carrying out reforms in MSE and MSEC to enhance
investor confidence; and
* institute a regulatory mechanism to guide the development of the NBFI sector.
41.   The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit and Financial Sector Reform Program
would support the implementation of the Governments Medium-Term Strategy for the Reform
and Development of the Financial System.
Bank Restructuring and Privatization
42.   A largely insolvent state-owned banking system impedes .faster economic growth and
improvements in living standards. Heavy banking system losses inflate the public sector deficit
and debt, diverting funds from poverty reduction, human resource development and
infrastructure.
43.   ITI Bank and Reconstruction Bank. On December 24, 1999, the Bank of Mongolia
revoked the licenses, and initiated a resolution dictating the liquidation of,  ITI Bank and
Reconstruction Bank. With this unprecedented measure, the size of the state banking sector was
reduced by about one-fifth.
44.   Agricultural Bank. AB is deeply insolvent and incurring operating losses averaging
nearly T50 billion per month. At present, AB also operates the largest branch network in
Mongolia and only one with a presence down to the county (soum) level. The accumulated losses
of AB amount to T7 billion (equivalent to about 0.7% of GDP on a yearly basis).The Government
plans to recapitalize, restructure and eventually privatize AB, in accordance with a Restructuring



-31 -                            Annex I
Plan that would be supplemented in consultation with IDA, to strengthen its provisions relating to
corporate governance; commercial viability; the actions required to bring it to the point-of-sale;
and the revocation of its license if a sound bank cannot be established. Over the medium-termn,
AB either will have been brought to the point-of-sale (to owners who can provide appropriate
governance and ensure financial viability), or, if AB has become insolvent again, BOM will have
revoked its license. In the meantime, the Government will begin to implement alternative
arrangements for ensuring payment services to the population outside the capital.
45.    Savings Bank. The Savings Bank was established as a special purpose vehicle to collect
and protect household deposits following the banking crisis of 1996. Savings Bank holds about
one-third of the banking system's total deposits. The bank has more than 260,000 accounts with
an average size of about US$12 equivalent each. The bank functions essentially as a Government
agency with an implicit state deposit guarantee and lacks a banking/lending culture. The
Government's failure, until recently, to service the bank restructuring bonds that make up
virtually all of its assets resulted in a deficit cash flow and operating losses, causing the Savings
Bank to maintain higher deposit rates than otherwise would be needed, further pushing-up
economy-wide interest rates. Furthermore, Savings Bank's policy of investing all its assets in
non-marketable Government bonds prevents one-third of all deposits (representing approximately
75% of all household deposits) from being intermediated.
46.    Savings Bank needs to be made financially viable to limit systemic risk, downsized to
reduce state exposure and foster financial intermediation, and eventually, turned into a financial
intermediary. Therefore, Government is clearing all interest arrears on its bonds, and will service
those bonds in future at an interest rate linked to the BOM bill rate. Clearance of interest arrears
has enabled Savings Bank to begin lowering its interest rates.  Over the medium-term,
Government will replace the stock of bank restructuring bonds with marketable securities that
will be regularly serviced. In the meantime, Savings Bank will be downsized, by, inter alia,
bringing its interest rate structure in line with market rates, and increasing service fees to levels
charged by other banks. Over the medium-term, the Government will prepare an action plan for
the transformation of Savings Bank into a financial intermediary, including its privatization.
47.   Trade and Development Bank.  The Trade and Development Bank (TDB) is
Mongolia's largest bank; however, during 1998 and the first half of 1999, the bank incurred
significant loan losses from weak governance and poor lending practices.
48.    Scarcity of modern banking skills is severely handicapping development of a banking
system, and the fastest way to develop these skills is through the training that a reputable
international bank could provide. In addition, much greater private ownership and market
allocation of resources in the financial system is needed to accelerate growth.
49.    Accordingly, Government submitted a bill to Parliament requesting its approval to
privatize TDB on January 28, 2000. Government's intention, once it obtains Parliamentary
approval of said bill, is to privatize a controlling share holding of TDB to a private strategic
investor with recognized international banking experience via international competitive bidding.
The Government is exploring with ADB and IFC the possibility of participating, together with a
private strategic investor, in the equity of the privatized TDB.
Corporate Governance in Banking Institutions
50.    Corporate governance in banking institutions is generally weak, further undermining
market discipline. In many instances, state-owned banks are operated by directors, many of



- 32 -                          Annex I
whom were trained under the old system based on principles of directed lending. To address
some of these issues, initial training has been provided under IDA-assisted projects (BELTAC
and Private Sector Development Project). On the other hand, certain private investors are, in
some instances, interested in establishing small banks not as a sound investment option but as a
means to finance their personal business activities.  The closed limited-liability nature of banks
together with the absence of effective accountability, in many cases, encourages perpetuation of
bad management further undermining the development of sound and efficient private banks. In
an effort to improve corporate governance and strengthen internal control mechanisms in banks,
BOM will, with technical assistance to be provided by ADB, prepare and issues guidelines on
best practices in corporate governance in banking institutions, based on international best
practices such as the guidelines issued by the Bank for International Settlements.
Loan Collateral
51.   It is recognized that the expected approval of provisions in the Civil Code allowing for
movable property to be offered as loan collateral will be an important step towards enhancing the
supply of loanable funds in the banking system. A second significant step will involve expanding
the types of immovable property that can be used as collateral in secured transactions. A plan
will be developed by the Government to analyze the feasibility of using other forms of
immovable property as collateral. At another level, the Government will address under the
Financial Sector Reform Program issues relating to the Office for Immovable Property
Registration relating to the relatively high cost of collateral registering and cumbersome
administrative procedures that discourage registration.
Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulation
52.   Tightening selected prudential norms, together with a stronger failure resolution
framework, will help create a sound banking system, reducing resource misallocation and
wastage, improving long-run fiscal balance and contributing to faster economic growth and
improved welfare.
53.   Minimum  Capital Requirements.  Minimum capital requirements have been low
relative to the size of the market and the scarcity of banking skills, allowing easy entry into the
market and resulting in an excess number of banks-as many as 18 in August 1998 (currently
down to 12), most of which have performed weakly or failed. In this way, BOM supervisory
resources and Mongolia's scare banking skills have been stretched far too thin. On September 1,
1999 the MCR was raised from T400 million to TI billion. On January 21, 2000, the Bank of
Mongolia issued a resolution that raised the Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR) for
commercial banks from TI billion to T2 billion, effective starting June 30, 2001, except for new
candidate banks, for which the increase to T2 billion is effective immediately.
54.   With the new increase to T2 billion, the MCR has been raised by a multiple of 5 over the
course of the past four months, for new banks, and has been raised by a factor of 5 during the
August 1999-June 30, 2001 period, for existing banks. On January 21, 2000, the Togrog (T)
exchange rate was T1080 per U.S. dollar, so that, as of that date, the new minimum capital
requirement was equivalent to about US$1,850,000. A comparison of the new minimum capital
requirement in Mongolia with those in other countries shows that Mongolia's new MCR is
relatively stringent.
55.   This new doubling in the MCR for banks will encourage a consolidation of existing
commercial banks into a smaller number of sounder banks that are capable of competing, and



- 33 -                           Annex I
help ensure that any new entrants into the market meet much more stringent capital requirements.
Also, the Bank of Mongolia intends to adjust the MCR as needed, over the medium-term, to
maintain its value in real terms.
56.   Asset Classification. Current regulations on asset classification deal only with loans.
Losses, however, may arise from other assets (including cash items; old outstanding "we debit"
items due from other banks; poor quality investments, suspense items; unresolved differences;
accounts receivable, foreclosed or repossessed assets; and contingent liabilities). In addition,
loans are currently considered past due only when principal and/or interest is 90 days in arrears.
The BOM is preparing a resolution that will strengthen the definition of past due criteria and
require recognition of losses that occur in asset types other than loans.
57.    Prompt Corrective Action. Prompt corrective action has not been implemented in the
banking system, with the result that banks with shaky financial conditions have deteriorated
progressively. Only once banks become insolvent, and often then with lengthy delays, have
actions been taken to redress the situation, inflicting large losses on Mongolian society.
58.   Over the medium-term, Government intends to amend banking legislation to adopt a
prompt corrective action, with trigger points at 75% and 50% of the Capital Adequacy Ratio, to
make corrective action much more automatic, to depoliticize bank failure resolution, and to
encourage banks to maintain higher levels of capital. The Trigger points at 75% and 50% of the
minimum capital adequacy ratio (CAR) would automatically activate mandatory recapitalization
actions including the development of a capital restoration program, prohibitions on dividends and
restrictions on asset growth, capital-raising activities and changes in the mix of risk assets. The
final threshold, at 25% of the minimum CAR, is a recognition that corrective actions have been
unsuccessful and would culminate in mandatory closure.
59.    Exit Policy. The Government intends to adopt a modern banking exit policy framework
by amending the current banking legislation on conservatorship and receivership, and including a
new failure resolution scheme. This new framework will better preserve the asset values of the
ongoing concern; increase the rights and choices of the depositors and other parties concerned;
reduce moral hazard; accelerate resolution and liquidation, and reduce resolution costs. In
addition, at present, an implicit state guarantee of all deposits is perceived to exist. The soundness
and efficiency of the financial system would be improved with a stronger exit policy that reduces
moral hazard; limits the state's exposure; permits an effective transfer of assets from troubled
banks to sound institutions; and prevents contagion and reduces systemic risk.
60.    Over the medium-term, Government intends to strengthen the exit policy framework
through amendments to the banking legislation. This framework will require that whenever the
capital adequacy ratio falls below 25% of the required level, the resolution framework is
automatically activated without any further possibility of action by managers and shareholders,
in order to protect depositors. Only the residual balance after resolution will need to be sent to
liquidation.
61.    Residual Assets. An improved framework is needed for liquidation of residual assets.
With the July 1999 modification of the Banking Law, a receiver can be appointed to restructure
or liquidate a bank. However, the authorities do not have all the legal tools needed to liquidate
banks in an efficient manner. Further amendments will be introduced to the Banking Law that
provide for the process of liquidation of the residual assets of failed bank after the resolution
process has taken place.



- 34 -                          Annex 1
Strengthening the Regulation of NBFIs
62.   In view of the limited outreach of the banking system and problems affecting financial
intermediation, finance companies are expected to quickly assume a greater role in Mongolia.
Prudential norms for the various categories of NBFIs need to be developed as the existing
regulations are short on details. There is also a need to ensure that the Supervision Department of
Bank of Mongolia (BOM) is properly organized to ensure effective supervision of NBFIs.
Appropriate mechanisms need to be introduced including regulations on licensing requirements,
risk-based prudential standards and minimum paid-in capital to ensure a healthy non-bank
financial system and avoid the fragility characteristic of the banking system. BOM intends to (i)
strengthen NBFI regulations requiring finance companies to comply with risk-based prudential
regulations; and (ii) assume oversight responsibility over savings and credit cooperatives through
second and higher tier credit associations.
Asset Recovery and Nonperforming Loans
63.   Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency. The Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency's
(MARA) ability to recover nonperforming assets is hampered by its insufficient authority; lack of
funding, low salaries; and lengthy court delays. Government plans to strengthen the legal status
and powers of MARA to collect and dispose of assets by passage of appropriate legislation. This
legislation would provide MARA sufficient flexibility to quickly realize assets, while opening-up
asset collection to private agencies, in particular, it would enable MARA to sell recovered assets
at a discount and at auction, and to operate on a commercial basis.
64.   Credit Information Bureau. In order to improve loan repayment rates, the Bank of
Mongolia also established a Credit Information Bureau. The information base on loan defaulters
and mechanisms to share this information with banks is still in process of development. The
BOM intends finalize arrangements to enhance the effectiveness of the Credit Inforrmation Bureau
by focusing data collection on loan defaulters and developing a protocol for the sharing of this
information in consultation with commercial banks. In order to strengthen operations and
upgrade the capacity of banks, integrated banking information management system software for
treasury management, foreign exchange operations and other activities will be introduced on a
pilot basis in TDB and then on a bank-wide basis in Mongolia.
Rationalizing the Payments System
65.   Bank restructuring needs to be done in such a way so as to avert a disruption in payments
services in rural areas. At present, most payment services (government wages and pensions) in
rural areas are performed by the Agricultural Bank. Government attaches a high priority to
ensuring that payment services are not disrupted. Government also intends to ensure that these
services are provided through least-cost means.
66.   The monthly cost of operating an AB bank sub-branch limited to providing payment
services at the soum level is about T160,000. If half of AB's 282 soum level sub-branches were
considered essential in that these locations could not be serviced from other soum or aimag
branches of AB or other banks, the cost of maintaining 141 sub-branches to provide payments
services only would about T271 million per annum (about US$245,000). Government plans to
keep open those AB subranches needed to ensure continuity of payment services in remote areas.
Other potential service providers may bid for supplying this service. To this end, Government
will define a strategic network of AB sub-branches that are essential to ensure payment services
at the soum level; on January 1, 2000 AB signed an agreement with the Social Insurance



- 35 -                          Annex I
Department, whereby the latter will pay for the transaction costs of distributing government
wages and pensions throughout the country. Govemment also intends to remove any remaining
impediments to entrance of new institutions in the distribution of these payments.
Public Debt and Development of Financial Markets
67.   Creation of a government bond market would provide an alternative source of investment
for banks and the public; increase transparency in the management of budget deficits; and aid in
the development of a capital market. At present, there is no legal framework on public debt.
Government bonds are issued only to meet extraordinary financing needs. This impedes the
creation of a market for government bonds and constrains market liquidity. Government plans to
submit to Parliament a law on government debt and government debt instruments. Given the
close link to this issue, the Bank of Mongolia supports the development of an inter-bank market.
An inter-bank market would provide banks in Mongolia a means to improve asset-liability
management through the ability to invest surplus funds and reduce the costs of funding liquidity
shortfalls. Legal, regulatory and policy considerations will be analyzed by Bank of Mongolia to
help create a conducive environment for the eventual development of an inter-bank market.
Development of Human Resources and Financial Infrastructure
68.   Developing the essential infrastructure to complement a market-based financial system
including banking skills, auditing and accounting standards, enforcement of financial contracts,
and better enforcement of prudential norms is a top priority. There is a dearth of banking skills,
especially with respect to credit assessment and loan management processes in commercial banks
and regulatory processes in the BOM. In some cases laws are not being enforced or are subject to
inconsistent interpretation by the courts. The 1993 accounting law required the adoption of
international accounting standards. However, nine years into the transition, most financial
statements are still prepared on a cash, rather than an accrual, basis. These statements tend to
minimize profits to lessen the tax burden and, since they are prepared on a cash basis, do not
reflect the true financial condition of the enterprise.
69.   There have been and are numerous programs to upgrade financial infrastructure, but these
have lacked the strategic basis and overall coordination needed to systematically develop this
infrastructure.  To that end, Govemment is preparing a comprehensive Financial Sector
Infrastructure Action Plan for development of human resource skills in all facets of the financial
sector and other basic building-blocks needed to support a healthy financial sector including
banking and supervision skills, accounting and auditing standards, and enforcement of financial
contracts. Government has requested World Bank financial assistance to implement this strategy
and action plan, in the form of a Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit.
Development of the Capital Markets
70.   The Government recognizes the importance of capital markets to increase domestic
resource mobilization and effectively allocate funds to those most productive activities.  The
development of the capital markets would also increase the supply of long-term funds available in
the economy. Over the short-term the Government will support actions that strengthen the
operational and regulatory capacity of the MSEC and improve investor confidence in the MSE.
In parallel, to increase the supply of quality stocks, the Government will support the issuing of
shares of some of the remaining 95 SOEs. In addition, the Government has incorporated under its
Guidelines of the Cabinet for Economic and Social Development the submission to Parliament of
a Law on Trusts and a Law on Investment Funds in 2000 as part of efforts to establish the legal
framework for new investment products.  Finally, the Govemment is committed to the



- 36 -                          Annex 1
establishment of MSE, CDS and the securities clearing and settlement system as separate legal
entities and subsequent privatization of them; as separate privatized institutions, they will foster
the development of a more effective and professional securities exchange.
Consensus-Building on Financial Sector Reform
71.   Govemment recognizes that implementation of its Medium-Term Strategy for Financial
Sector Reform and Development requires a broad consensus in Mongolia, as well as the support
of our external development partners. To this end, we have created a Financial Sector
Development Performance Group (FSDPG as a forum to exchange ideas and reach broad
consensus on the long-term vision and medium-term strategy for the financial sector. We expect
this forum to monitor progress on a regular basis and determine if there is need to change
direction as the program evolves. The FSDPG includes high-level members of Government
policy-making bodies (including the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Justice, the Bank of Mongolia, the Cabinet Secretariat and the State Property
Committee); members of Parliament from all parties; NGO and private sector representatives; and
donors representatives, including the ADB, GTZ, JICA, IMF, USAID and World Bank.
Ya. Ochirsukh                                   J. Unenbat
Minister of Finance                             Govemor
Ministry of Finance                             Bank of Mongolia



-37-                                                                        Annex 2
MONGOLIA: FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM*
POLICY MATRIX
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                       Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IOA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranchle
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Macroeconomic Franmework
* Mongolia needs     * Growth averaged 3.5%    * Government's macro-                              * Maintain a sound        * Maintain a sound        * Maintain a sound
high, sustained labor-  duringl994-98, according  economic policy                                  macroeconomic            macrocconomic             macroeconomic
intensive growth to    to official statistics.  framework is designed to                          framework as determined   framework as dctermined   framework as detennined
steadily raise living    Although actual growth  maintain inflation in                             on the basis of indicators   on the basis of indicators   on the basis of indicators
standards and reduce   has been higher (because   single digits, facilitate                       agreed between the        agreed between the        agreed between the
the incidence of     national accounts         adjustment to external                              Borrower and IDA.        Borrower and IDA.         Borrower and IDA.
poverty. Fiscal      overestimate the impact    shocks, build-up holdings
sustainability is a  of declining sectors and    of external assets and
major challenge       underestimate that of    bring down real interest
facing Mongolia in    expanding ones), the     rates to sustainable levels.
achieving            incidence of poverty also
macroeconomic        remains higlh, at 35.6%
stability. The high  (36.3% in 1995).
level of interest rates
reflect in part the
impact of large fiscal
deficits.
* Mongolia iieeds to   * Mongolia has yet to take  * Government plans to                          * Adoption of a time-     * Completion of the said
manage external      measures to manage        fonrm a Working Group ois                           bound action plan, agree-  action plan, in a manner
shocks efficiently to   extemal price shocks.  managing Commodity                                 able to IDA, to mitigate    satisfactory to IDA.
significantly raise its   Commodity price fluctua-  Risk to consider measures                      external commodity risk
long-term growth and  tions have led to the elas-  to mitigate external                           and tenns of trade shocks,
welfare gains.       sic boomi and bust cycle,   commodity risk and tenms                         including work initiated
Cyclical banking     with low trend growth.    of trade shocks ihicluding                          under the World Bank's
crises are caused in  Copper prices plunged    the adoption of risk                               commodity initiative and
part by term of trade   42% in 1998, and a     management systems by                              the development of non-
shocks.              further 17% in January-    the msajor producers of                           traditional exports In
August 1999. Cashmere   commodities most vul-                               particular, the plan will
and gold prices also are    nerable to price shocks                         focus on efforts to miti-
depressed; petroleuni    (copper and gold).                                  gate the impact of volatile
prices have more than    Mongolia has been                                   commodity prices on the
doubled in the past year.   selected as early test case                     fiscal position of the
Value of terms of trade  in World Bank's com-                               Government.
shock is estimated at    modity initiative and
about 9% of GDP in       work is expected to start
1998, and an additional    in early 2000.
possible 4% in 1999.      _
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components undcr the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 38 -                                                                      Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                      Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Financial Sector Development Strategy
* Create a sound and   . The financial sector is                         . The Government, in
efficient financial  inefficient, loaded with                            consultation with donors
system.              non-performing loans                               involved in the financial
(NPLs) and is not                                  sector, has adopted a long
performing its allocative                          term vision for the
function satisfactorily.                           development of the
financial sector and a
medium term strategy to
achieve that vision,
satisfactory to IDA
Corporate Governance in Banking Institutions
*  Application of    * Banks are generally     .  The Government                                                            *  BOM to prepare and
corporate governance  poorly managed with      intends to issue guidelines                                                  issue guidelines on best
principles in banking   limited commercial     on best practices in                                                         practices in corporate
institutions is key to   orientation. Private  corporate governance for                                                     governance in banking
the sustainable      investors are often       banks, prepare a model                                                       institutions in Mongolia,
development of the    interested in banks not as  charter for banks, and                                                    including measures to
banking sector.      a sound investmeent       issue guidelines                                                             strengthen internal
option, but as a means to   encouraging banks to                                                      control mechanisms,
finance their personal   prepare or amend their                                                        based on international
business activities. The  charters based on this                                                      practices such as the
closed limited-liability  model,                                                                      guidelines issued by the
nature of banking                                                                                     Bank for International
institutions, together with                                                                           Settlements.
the absence of effective
accountability,
encourages perpetuation
of bad management
practices further
undermining the
development of sound and
efficient private banks.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



-39 -                                                                   Annex 2
Development             Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                               Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                    Actions
Issues                                                                                    IDA First Tranche/     IDA Second Tranche/   IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of        ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration/
First Tranche
Improving the efficiency of intermediation: Bank Restructuring, Privatization, Asset Liability Management and Interest Rates
. The banking       . Heavy banking system    * Govemment is                       ,            Adoption of a plan,
system is, in terms of  losses inflate the public   implementing a bank                       satisfactory to IDA, to
solvency and        sector deficit and debt,    restructuring program to                      establish a payment
liquidity, fragile,  diverting funds from    strengthen the banking                           system network to
state-owned and     infrastructure, human   system, reduce fiscal                             provide payment services
inefficient.        resource development     losses, and free resources                       to the soum level, which
and poverty reduction.    for priority expenditure.                      plan may include the use
About 90% of banking                                                     of certain branches and
assets are in state hands.                                               sub-branches of AB or
other entities qualified to
provide this service.
. To reverse the    * ITI, Reconstruction    * Government and BOM
current trend towards  (RB) and Agricultural  plan to liquidate ITI and
disintermediation.  Bank (AB) are all illiquid  RB.
and deeply insolvent.   * BOM has revoked the
licenses of ITI bank and
RB and issued resolutions
to initiate liquidation of
ITI bank and RB.
. An interbank      * There is no functioning   . The development of                                                  .   MOF and BOM to
market would provide  interbank market in   financial markets is                                                      prepare a plan acceptable
banks in Mongolia a   Mongolia.              critical to the                                                          to ADB for development
means to improve                             development of capital                                                   of an interbank market,
asset liability                              markets . While there are                                                including establishment of
management by                                concerns regarding the                                                   the legal / regulatory and
allowing them to                             optimal tiningifor                                                       institutionalframework
invest surplus funds                         creating an interbank
and reduce costs of                          market, there is an
funding liquidity                            understanding that the
shortfalls.                                  monetary authorities have
a role in promoting
policies conducive to the
development offinancial
markets such as
development of an
interbank market.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



-40-                                                                        Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                      Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranchle
* To signal                                                                                       * Governnent has paid    * Government has
Government's                                                                                      all the interest on its Bank  replaced all its outstand-
commitment to honor                                                                               Restructuring Bonds in    ing bonds with market-
financial contracts.                                                                              arrears as of the date of    able and tradable
the DCA and issued       securities that provide
regulations, satisfactory to  adequate yield, liquidity,
IDA, providing for the   and negotiability.
prompt and timely
servicing of all Bank
Restructuring Bonds
including linkage of their
interest rate to those of
the Central Bank Bills
Rate (CBBR).
* Government plans to    * Government intends to   * Government has                                   * Completion of the AB
recapitalize AB with     restructure AB with the   adopted for AB a                                   restructuring plan,
public and GTZ funds,    objective of creating a   restructuring plan,                                satisfactory to IDA.
restructure it, and      viable institution to     satisfactory to IDA, that
privatize it.            provide financial services   provides appropriate
* The cost of providing    in rural areas.         governance, ensures
payment services                                   commercial viability, and
throughout the country is                          the actions required to
very low relative to the                           bring it to the point of
cost of operating AB as it                         sale or its closure and
currently exists. It costs                         revocation of license if a
approximately US$160                               sound financial institution
per month to operate a                             cannot be established.
soum level sub-branch
providing only payment
services. To operate a
full service sub-bank
branch costs significantly
snore due to the expense
of personnel, security,
equipment, etc.
Furthermore, all of AB's
current sub-branches are
not essential to provide
payment services, as
some of these locations
could be serviced by other
soum or aimag branches
of AB or other banks.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



-41 -                                                                       Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                       Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranches       IDA Second Tranchel    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
The high level of    * Savings Bank (SB) was  * The Govemment plans                               *Governent has issued   a Government has
interest rates       established as a special    to use technical assistance                       instructions to SB to    adopted a time-bound
encompass monetary   purpose state vehicle to    over the next 18 months,                          adopt and implement an    action plan, satisfactory to
and fiscal policy    collect and protect       in consultation with IDA,                           asset-liability          IDA, to privatize SB.
issues, and structural   household deposits It  to strengthen Savings                              management policy,
conditions in the    needs to be made          Bank in the areas of                                satisfactory to IDA,
banking system.       financially viable to limit   management, corporate                          including prudent
systemic risk. Almost all  govemance, the                                    management of liquidity
of SB's assets consist of   development of a business                        and funding needs and
govemment bonds which   plan and staff training                             payment of interest for
have not been serviced   consistent.                                         deposits at competitive
regularly causing liquidity                                                  market rates.
problems for SB. To
manage liquidity and
meet depositor demand
for cash, SB has for
significant periods paid
higher interest rates than
its main competitors. thus
raising market rates.
Scarcity of modem    * Currently, there are no   * Govemment has       * Govemment has                                                              * A strategic Private
banking skills is    foreign banks operating in  presented to Parliament a   adopted a program,                                                       Sector investor with
severely             Mongolia. In addition,    bill excluding TDB from    satisfactory to the                                                         recognized intemational
handicapping         TDB, the largest bank,    the list of properties not to  Association, to bring                                                   banking experience has
development of a     remains in state hands and  be privatized. Attached to  TDB to the point of sale                                                 acquired a controlling
banking system. In    its loan portfolio has   the bill is a proposal for    and transfer a controlling                                               shareholding in TDB.
addition, much       deteriorated sharply over  the Government to        share-holding to a
greater private      the past two years.       dispose of 51% of the     strategic private sector
ownership and market                           shares of TDB, which      investor with recognized
allocation of                                  would reduce the          intemational banking
resources in the                               Govemment's stake to      experience. The program
financial system is                            19%. Parliamentary        includes the principles
needed to accelerate                           approval of the bill is   and procedures that will
growth.                                        required before the       guide the privatization
Govemment can dispose   process.
of its stake in TDB. The
principles and procedures
that will guide the
privatization process have
not yet been clearly
articulated.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 42 -                                                                   Annex2
Development             Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                 Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                     Actions
Issues                                                                                     IDA First Tranche/      IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of        ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulation
Tightening selected  * Minimum capital      * The minimum capital
prudential norms will  requirements are too low   requirements recently
help create a sound    relative to the size of the   were raised from T400
banking system,      market and the scarcity of  million to TI billion;
reducing wastage of   banking skills, allowing    however, since the
resources, improving   easy entry into the market  increase was originally
fiscal balance, and  and resulting in an excess  proposed to Parliament,
contributing to faster   number of banks, most of  the value of the new
economic growth and  which have performed     minimum capital
improved welfare.    weakly. Bank             requirement has declined
supervisory resources also  from the equivalent of
have been stretched too    about US$ 1.4 million to
thin. Consolidation of the  US5850 thousand, and
banking sector will lead    from 1.3% of GDP to
to sounder and more     0.9% of GDP. The
efficient banks.        Govemment plans to
phase-in higher minimum
capital requirements to
further strengthen the
banking sector.
* The BOM has raised
minimum capital require-
ments to $2 million
equivalent with the
increase phased in over
12 months for banks with
licenses issued prior to
the date of the DCA.
* Further tightening    . Current regulations on   * The BOM intends to                        . BOM has issued a
prudential norms will  asset classification deal    strengthen the definition                  regulation, satisfactory to
help strengthen      only with loans.         of past due criteria and                         IDA, providing for: (a)
financial discipline  However, losses may     require recognition of                           asset classification criteria
and improve banking   arise from other assets    losses that occur in asset                    to include assets other
sector performance.   including off-balance   types other than loans.                          than loans; and (b) Bank
sheet items and other                                                     licensing criteria .
categories of non-loan  * Government plans to
assets. In addition, loans  tighten regulations with
are currently considered    regard to the norms on
past due only when      past due loans.
principal and/or interest is
90 days in arrears.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



-43-                                                                    Annex 2
Development             Diagnosis          Government Strategy!    IDA Board Condition                               Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                    Actions
Issues                                                                                    IDA First Tranche/     IDA Second Tranche/   IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of        ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Prompt corrective    * Prompt corrective   * In addition to measures                                                * The Banking Law has
action is needed to    action has not generally    already contained in                                               been amended to provide
help ensure the     been implemented in the   Article 31 of the Banking                                               for mandatory action
soundness of the     banking system, with the   Law, the Govemment                                                    ("Prompt Corrective
banking system.      result that banks' with    intends to adopt the                                                   Action") to be imposed
shaky financial conditions  concept of "Prompt                                                    automatically by BOM
have tended to deteriorate  Corrective Action," which                                            whenever the CAR of any
progressively. Only once  would require mandatory                                                bank falls below 75% and
banks become insolvent,  action by the BOM to                                                     50% of the minimum
and often then with     when bank capital falls                                                  CAR required level as
lengthy delays, have    below certain levels with                                                determined by BOM,
actions been taken to   respect to the minimum                                                    including the
redress the situation.  capital adequacy ratio                                                   development and
(CAR). Trigger points at                                                 implementation of a
75% and 50% of the                                                       capital restoration plan,
minimum CAR                                                              restrictions on asset
automatically activate                                                   growth and on new
mandatory                                                                activities, and
recapitalization actions.                                                implementation of a
If a bank reaches the final                                              management
threshold, at 25% of the                                                 improvement plan.
minimum CAR,
corrective actions have                                                  * The Banking Law has
failed, and resolution                                                   been amended to provide
becomes mandatory.                                                       for prompt and effective
intervention by BOM
whenever any one of the
objective factors
expressly stated in the
Banking Law occurs,
including legal evidence
of fraud by the owners
and managers of the bank,
legal evidence of
incompetent management,
and lack of compliance
with instructions issued
by BOM pursuant to law.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 44 -                                                                      Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranche Conditions
Obtjectives/Key                                     Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Seconzd Tranclhe
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranchle
The soundrtess and   The existing banking law    * The Governmelt will                                                    * The Bankinig Law has
efficiency of the    provisions on             strengthen the exit policy                                                   been amended to provide
financial system     conservatorslhip and      framework. This                                                              for an effective failure
would be improved    receivership need to be   framework will require                                                       resolution mechanism,
with a stronger exit    strengthened to better  that whenever the capital                                                   including automatic
policy comnbined     preserve the asset values   adequacy ratio falls below                                                 implementation of system
with a system that;  of the ongoing concern;    25% of the required level,                                                  to protect depositors and
protects small       increase the rights and   the resolution framework                                                     bank assets, whenever the
depositors' rights    choiecs of the parties   is automatically activated                                                   CAR of any bank falls
while limiting the    involved; reduce moral    without any further                                                         below 25% of the
state's exposure;    hazard; accelerate        possibility of action by                                                     minimiiumii CAR required
permits an effective    resolution and liquidation,  the private shareholders,                                              level as determined by the
transfer of assets   and r educe resolution    in order to protect small                                                    BOM or wheni the bank
fromn troubled banks    costs. In addition, at  depositors.                                                                 suspends payments to
to sound institutions;   present, an implicit state                                                                         liability holders.
and prevents         guarantee of all deposits
contagion and         is perceived to exist.
reduces systemic risk.                                                                                             .
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



-45-                                                                        Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   l'ranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                      Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
* An improved        * With the July 1999      * The Government plans                                                       * 'I'he Banking Law has
framework is needed   modification of the Law,   to amend the banking law                                                   been amenided to establish
for liquidation of   a receiver can be         to allow for the                                                             the process of liqttidatiois
residual assets.     appointed to restructure or  liquidation of residual                                                   of banks' residual assets
liquidate a bank.        assets after resolution.                                                     after the completion of
However, the authorities   Only the residual asset                                                    the failure resolution
do not have all the legal    balance after resolution                                                 mechanism.
tools needed to liquidate   has to be sent to
banks in an efficient    liquidation.
manner. An amendment
of the banking law is
needed to provide for the
liquidation of the residual
assets of failed bank after
the resolution process has
been completed. A draft
bankruptcy law for banks
has been prepared but
needs revisions. It
envisions that depositors
will be paid through the
liquidation of assets rather
than through other failure
resolution methodologies,
thereby delaying
depositors access to their
funds and potentially
increasing contagion risk
and moral hazard.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB-assisted components uLider the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. I'here is no cross-conditionality.



- 46 -                                                                     Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                  Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                     Actions
Issues                                                                                       IDA First Tranche/      IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Loan Collateral
*  Development of    .  The types of property   * The Government                                                          .  Government to
thefinancial sector    that can be used as loan    recognizes thatfinancial                                               prepare a plan acceptable
requires that the types  collateral are limited and  intermediation (i) is                                                to ADB on the expansion
of property that can    must be expanded.     constrained by the limited                                                  of types of property that
be used as loan      Procedures for registering  types of property that can                                               can be used as loan
collateral be        property must also be    be offered as loan                                                          collateral.
expanded.            improved to allowfor     collateral and (ii) that the
proper registration and    cost of borrowing is
valuation of the property.  higher given the lack of
collateral and uncertainty
concerning the value of
the collateral and the
ability to recover the
collateral. if necessary.
The Government intends
to consider means to
expand the types of
property that can be used
as loan collateral.
Asset Recovery and reducing the future incidence of non-performing loans
A banking system    . The Mongolian Asset    * Government intends to                                                    * MARA has been
in distress needs an  Recovery Agency's       strengthen the ability of                                                   legally empowered to sell
effective vehicle for   (MARA) ability to     MARA to collect and                                                         recovered assets at
collecting bad assets   recover nonperforming  dispose of assets,                                                         discounts, including
accumulated form     assets is hampered by its  including its privatization.                                              through auctions , and to
insolvent financial    insufficient authority;                                                                            operate on a commercial
institutions. At the    lack of funding, low                                                                              basis.
same time            salaries; lengthy court
mechanisms need to   delays; and uncooperative
be put in place to   debtors.
enhance the
incentives for
repaying future loans.
' For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 47 -                                                                     Annex 2
Development             Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                  Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                      Actions
Issues                                                                                       IDA First Tranche/      IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
. A credit information   * BOM intends to                                                            . BOM has implemented
bureau has been          finalize arrangements to                                                    an action plan,
established at the BOM.    enhance the effectiveness                                                 satisfactory to IDA, to
However, the information   of the credit information                                                 strengthen its credit
base on loan defaulters  bureau by focusing the                                                     information bureau and
and mechanisms to share   data collection on loan                                                    facilitate sharing of
this information with    defaulters and developing                                                   information on loan
banks is still in process of  a protocol for the sharing                                             defaulters among the
development.             of this information in                                                      commercial banks and the
consultation with                                                          BOM.
commercial banks.
Management Information System
*  In order to       *  The existing banking    .  Integrated banking                              .                          Progress acceptable
strengthen operations  management information   management information                                                    to ADB has been achieved
and upgrade the      systems in banks are     system software should be                                                   in the irmplementation of
capacity of          rudimentary with limited   introduced in Mongolian                                                   the program to introduce
Mongolian banks,     scope for proper treasury  banks on a pilot basis and                                                and operationalize
there is a needfor   management, foreign      then on a bank-wide basis.                                                  integrated banking
banks to adopt an    exchange operations and                                                                              management information
integrated banking   other activities.                                                                                    system software in the
management                                                                                                                Mongolian banks
information system.                                                                                                       participating in such
program.
Rationalizing the Payments System
* Bank restructuring   . At present, most     * Govemment attaches a
needs to avert a     payment services         high priority to ensuring
disruption in        (government wages and    that payment services are
payments services in   pensions) in rural areas  not disrupted.
rural areas.         are performed by the     Government also intends
Agricultural Bank.       to ensure that these
services are provided
through least cost means.
* MOF has issued
instructions to all budget
entities to arrange to pay
fees to commercial banks
for any payment services
said banks provide, such
as distributing
govemment wages and
pensions throughout                                                       l
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 48 -                                                                      Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis           Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                   Tranclie Conditions
Objectives/Key                                       Actions
Issues                                                                                        IDA First Tranche/       IDA Second Tranchel    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration/
First Tranche
Mongolia.
Developnment of Human Resources and Financial Infrastructure
Developing the      * There remains a        * Govemment plans to   |                           * Government has          * Government has
essential             crippling shortage of    dcvelop a comprehensive                            implemented an action     implemented the said
infrastructure to    banking skills especially   strategy for dcvclopment                         plan, satisfactory to IDA,  action plan.
complement a          with respect to credit   of human resource skills                           to develop a comprehen-
market based          assessment and loan      in all facets of the                                sive program to strength-
financial system     management processes in  financial sector. It intends                        en the financial sector,
including banking    commercial banks and      to ask donors for                                  including banking and
skills, auditing and  regulatory processes in    technical assistance to                          supervision skills,
accounting standards,  the BOM.                support the strategy. The                          accounting and auditing
the legal framework    * There is a need to    Government has                                     standards, and enforce-
supporting financial   strengthen the legal and    requested a technical                          ment of financial con-
contracts, and        associated institutional  assistance project for                            tracts.
enforcement of        framewoTk for the        capacity building in
prudential norms.     development of a robust   parallel with FSAC.
private sector and contract
based financial system.
Even where laws have
been introduced they are
not being enforced or
subject to inconsistent
interpretation by the
courts.
* The 1993 accounting
law required the adoption
of intemational
accounting standards.
However, nine years into
the transition, most
financial statements are
still pre-pared on a cash,
rather than an accrual,
basis. These statements
tend to minimize profits
to lessen the tax burden
and, since they are
prepared on a cash basis,
do not reflect the true
financial condition of the
enterprise..
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 49 -                                                                    Annex 2
Development              Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                  Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                      Actions
Issues                                                                                       IDA First Tranche/      IDA Second Tranche/    IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of         ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration /
First Tranche
Development and Strengthening of Non-Bantk Financial Institutions
A wellfunctioning    * NBFIs currently play   BOM intends to ()                                * BOM to issue risk-     *Enactment of
financial sector      an insignificant role. This  strengthen NBFI                               based prudential          amendments to the Law
requires that non-   role is, however, expected  regulations, including                          regulations to govern    on Cooperatives and any
bank financial       to increase quickly in   requiring finance                                  licensing offinance      other necessary
institutions (NBF7s)    view of the limited   companies andfinancial                             companies for capital    legislation to provide for
play an important    outreach of the banking    leasing companies to                             adequacy (8 percent),    the regulation of second
role in the sector.  system and problems      comply with risk-based                             liquidity ratio (10      and higher tier credit
affecting financial     prudential regulations;                            percent), foreign         associations by BOM.
intermediation. Existing    and (ii) assume oversight                      exchange exposure (20
regulations relating to  responsibility over                               percent) and single
NBFIs lack detail, and   savings and credit                                borrower limit (20
specific measures such as  cooperatives through                            percent).
the development of       second and higher tier                            * BOM to issue guidelines
prudential norms for the    credit associations.                           on the calculation of
different categories of                                                    capital adequacy and
NBFIs need to be                                                           liquidity ratios and
developed.                                                                 foreign exchange
exposure for finance
companies.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are rcflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



50-                                                                    Annex 2
Development             Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                 Tranche Conditions
Objectives[Key                                     Actions
Issues                                                                                     IDA First Tranche/      IDA Second Tranche/   IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of        ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration/
First Tranche
*BOM to create an
organizational system
and procedures
acceptable to ADB within
the Supervision
Department to monitor
and enforce prudential
regulations offinance
companies andfinancial
leasing companies.
Development and Strengthening of the Capital Markets
The capital       .  The capital market is   .  New capital market                          * MSEC to issue          * MSE and MSEC to
market must be       still in a nascent stage of  products must be created                     regulations to enhance    increase the minimum
further developed and  development. For       under a proper                                    transparency for all     capital requirements for
strengthened to      balanced development of  legal/regulatory                                 trades in the securities  securities brokers and
enhance domestic    the financial sector, it is  framework. MSEC must                          market, mandating that (i)  dealers to at least 20
resource mobilization  necessary that the efforts   he strengthened to ensure                  all trades be reported to    million tugrigs.
and improve          already undertaken to   the proper operation of                           the MSEC for surveillance  . Government to submit a
efficiency in resource  develop the capital market the MSE and increase                        purposes on a timely     draft Law on Trusts to
allocation.          be sustained and        public confidence in and                          basis, and that (ii) all  Parliament for approval.
strengthened. Further    use of the MSE.                                  relevant information     * Government to submit a
development of the market                                                 about stock prices and   draft Law on Investment
depends on progress in                                                    quotes be disseminated to  Funds to Parliament for
the privatization of the                                                  the investing public on a    approval.
remaining 95 state-owned                                                  frequent and timely basis.   Government to establish
enterprises (SOEs). The                                                                            MSE, CDS and the
operational and                                                                                    securities clearing and
regulatory capacity of the                                                                         settlement system as
Mongolian Stock                                                                                    separate legal entities and
Exchange Commission                                                                                then privatize them.
(MSEC) needs to be                                                                                 *MSEC in collaboration
strengthened                                                                                       with MSE to develop a
considerably. Market                                                                               marketing and public
capitalization of the                                                                              awareness campaign to
Mongolian Stock                                                                                    increase public
Exchange (MSE) has                                                                                 knowledge of equity
fallen 25 percent over the                                                                          markets.
past two years, partly                                                                              * Government to submit to
reflecting the decreasing                                                                          Parliament for approval
supply of quality stocks,                                                                          a draft amended and
restated Securities Law
with provisions to
improve financial
governance.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. Thcrc is no cross-conditionality.



-51-                                                                     Annex 2
Development             Diagnosis          Government Strategy/    IDA Board Condition                                 Tranche Conditions
Objectives/Key                                     AItions
Issues                                                                                     IDA First TranAhe/      IDA Second Tranche/   IDA Floating Tranche
Condition of        ADB Second Tranche
effectiveness; ADB
Board Consideration/
First Tranche
Development and Strengthening of Contractual Savings Institutions - Pension and Insurance Systems
The pensions     .  The pensions system   .  Preparation of a plan                                                   * Social Security
system needs to be   needs to be strengthened,  for introducing partial                                                 Insurance General Office
promoted and         so that the transition to   funding is required. A                                                  (SSIGO) to prepare a plan
strengthened as a    partial funding can take   law on voluntary private                                                acceptable to ADBfor
vehicle for savings  place over the medium   pension plans also must                                                    introducing partial
and a means to      term. The process and     he prepared.                                                              funding to the pension
improve the allocative  timing of this transition                                                                       system.
efficiency of        and the associated costs
investments.         need to be carefully
worked out. There is
currently no law
governing supplementary
non-state pensions. Such
a law is critical in light of
plans by NBFIs to offer
voluntary retirement
savings products.
*  The insurance     *  The operational and    .  The regulatory                                                        *  MOF to draft and
system needs to be   regulatory capacity of the  framework must be                                                      submit to Parliament for
strengthened as a    insurance industry must   strengthened, and                                                        approval draft
vehicle for savings  be strengthened, Proper   additional investment                                                    amendments to the Law
and a means to      regulation is required, as  regulations and guidelines                                              on Insurance to (i)
improve the allocative  well as policy and    issued.                                                                   introduce risk-based
efficiency of        operational assistance.                                                                            solvency requirements in
investments          Except for minimum                                                                                 the industry; (ii)
capital requirements,                                                                              strengthen the minimum
there are no other                                                                                 capital requirements; and
prudential requirements.                                                                           (iii) increase the
Investment guidelines for                                                                          percentage ofpremium
insurance companies need                                                                           incomes that can be
to be strengthened as                                                                              invested by the insurance
capital markets gradually                                                                          companies.
develop.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted
components have not been italicized. There is no cross-conditionality.



- 52 -                                            Annex 3
MONGOLIA: PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MONGOLIA: MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK, 1995 -2001
Nominal GDP (1998): US$1,026 million
Population (1998): 2.36 million
Quota: SDR 51. I million
1995     1996      1997      1998        1999        2000        2001      2002*
Projection    Program    Program
(Percent change)
Real GDP                                            6.3       2.4       4.0       3.5         3.3         4.3         4.0
Consumer prices (period average)                   56.9      46.9      36.6       9.4         7.6         9.4         6.0
Consumer prices (end period)                       53.3      44.6      20.5       6.0        10.0         7.0         6.0
(In Percent of GDP)
General government revenue                         33.7      27.8      29.3      27.4        26.1        28.4        28.2
General govemment expenditure                      40.4      36.0      37.9     39.1         34.6        35.7        35.3
Current balance                                     8.0       4.5       1.8      -0.6         0.6         2.4         2.6
Overall balance                                     -6.7     -8.3      -8.6    -11.7         -8.5        -7.3        -7.1
Domestic bank financing 1/                          -4.8      2.1      -3.3       3.8         0.0         0.0        -0.5
(Percent change)
Net foreign assets                                 87.2      68.9      68.4    -31.6         96.2        16.6         ...
Net domestic assets                                 12.4     -1.4      -6.3      56.4       -23.3        17.1         ...
Domestic credit                                    -21.7    133.6      -5.2     60.1         -8.6        -1.5         ...
Credit to enterprises                               18.0     23.2      13.2      18.5       -33.2         7.0         ...
Broad money                                        32.9      25.8      19.8       8.8        31.6        16.8         ...
Reserve money                                        ...     36.2      26.2      13.5        51.8        17.4         ...
Broad money velocity (GDP/BM)                       4.5       5.2       5.4       5.4         5.4         5.4
Annual interest rate on BOM bills                  62.4      42.0      35.0      22.5        12.5         ...          ---
(percent)
(In millions of US dollars)
Current accountbalance 2/                           -52      -101        13     -129          -60         -96         -87
(In percent of GDP)                                -5.5      -9.4      1.3    -12.4          -6.2        -8.9        -7.6
Trade balance                                        -3       -87       30      -120          -48         -79         -72
(In percent of GDP)                                -0.3      -8.2      3.1    -11.5          -4.9        -7.4        -6.2
Exports, fob                                        486      423       569       462         423         529         506
(percentage growth)                                32.3    -12.8      34.3    -18.7         -8.4        13.3         8.3
Imports, cif                                        489      511       538       582         471         608         578
(percentage growth)                               32.0       4.5       5.4       8.2       -19.1         9.1         2.2
Capital account balance                              19        41       53       116          51           60          70
(In percent of GDP)                                2.0       3.8       5.5      11.1         5.3         5.6         6.0
Gross official intemational reserves                115        98      138       123         157          170         198
(In weeks of imports)                             12.2      10.0      13.3      11.0        17.3        14.5        17.8
Short-termdebt(in percentofNIRoftheBOM)/3          66.7      69.1      36.3      38.8        19.5        16.9        13.4
Extemal debt 4/                                     504       542      605       753         861         952        1,049
(In percent of GDP)                                52.7     50.7      63.0      72.3        88.5        88.6        90.8
Debt service  5/                                   64.2      56.6      41.0      39.6        44.3        40.7        35.9
(In percent of goods & services)                   12.1      11.8      6.3       7.3         8.3         6.7          6.1
Exchange rates and trade prices
Tugriks per US $ (end of period)                   474       694      813       902        1,072
Tugriks per US $ (period average)                  449       548      790       841        1,023
NEER, end-period (Dec. 95=100)                    95.9      69.0      63.0      69.0        60.6
REER, end-period (Dec 95=100)                    108.2    115.7    120.4    139.2          132.7
Export prices (US dollar, percent change)         23.7    -21.6        3.7    -28.9         -5.8         7.1         ...
Copper prices (US dollar, percent change)         40.2    -21.8       -0.8        0         -9.3         9.8         ...
Import prices (US dollar, percent change)          9.1       2.6      -7.5     -9.6          4.0         3.4         ...
Terms of Trade (percent change)                   13.4    -23.6       12.2    -21.4         -9.3         3.6
Nominal GDP (billion tugriks)                       429       587      759       876         995        1,162       1,305
Nominal GDP (million US dollars)                    957     1,070      961      1,042        973        1,075       1,156
Sources: Mongolian Authorities and IMF staff estimates and projections
Notes:
*Figures for the year 2002 are forthcoming.
1/ For 2000, higher-than-programmed costs of banking system reform and regularization of relations between the government and the BOM, up to an
amount of Tog 5 billion, would be financed from the domestic banking system.
2/ Excludes official transfers.
3/ Includes public sector amortization on medium term and long-term debt falling due during the period.
4/ Excludes Russia's unresolved 10.6 billion transferable ruble claim.
5/ Excludes servicing of unresolved Russian medium and long-term claims
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the
Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted components have not been italicized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



- 53 -                                            Annex 3
MONGOLIA: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1998-2005
(In millions of US dollars)
1998       1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004        2005
Estimate                                     Projections
Trade balance                             -120.1      -48.0       -98.4      -71.9       -72.9       -71.3       -66.2      -72.5
Exports, f.o.b                           462.3       423.3      467.5       506.5       546.7       599.4       658.0      706.4
Copper                                 124.8       111.7       120.0      142.5       156.6       179.8       196.9      215.4
Imports  1/                             -582.4     -471.3      -565.9      -578.4     -619.6      -670.7      -724.2      -779.0
Services, net                             -11.5       -13.1        -9.9      -10.3       -10.9       -11.6       -12.3      -13.0
Receipts                                  77.9       75.8        83.3        86.6       91.8        97.3       103.2       109.4
Payments                                 -89.4      -88.9       -93.2       -96.9     -102.7      -108.9      -115.4      -122.4
Income, net                                 0.4        -6.6        -8.0       -9.1       -10.6       -11.2       -11.9      -12.4
Official interest payments 2/             -9.2        -9.6      -10.9       -11.3       -12.0      -12.7       -13.2       -13.7
Private unrequited transfers                2.5         7.4         4.0         4.0        4.5         4.5         4.5        4.5
Current account balance, excluding        -128.7      -60.3      -112.2      -87.3       -89.9       -89.6       -85.9      -93.4
official transfers
Public unrequited transfers, net           53.3        61.8        51.0        33.0       33.0        28.0        23.0       21.0
Official grants                           45.8        54.9       46.0        30.0        30.0       25.0        20.0        18.0
Other official transfers, net              7.5         6.9        5.0         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Financial and capital account              116.1       51.3        59.9        69.6       82.3        74.0        73.0       78.9
Direct Investment                         18.9       20.0        22.0        24.0        32.0       34.0        35.0        40.0
MLT loan disbursements, net               93.4        85.9       77.0        87.9        84.6       72.7        69.8        70.4
Disbursements                          122.5      106.4        94.3       105.0      105.0        96.0        96.0        96.0
Amortization  2/                       -29.1       -20.6       -17.3      -17.1       -20.4       -23.3      -26.2       -25.6
Commercial banks, net                     40.0      -17.7        -5.0        -4.5        -4.0       -4.0        -3.0        -2.0
Short-term capital                       -36.3       -37.0      -34.1       -37.9       -30.3      -28.7       -28.7       -29.5
Errors and Omissions                       -69.1      -22.4         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Overall balance                            -28.5       30.5        -1.3        15.2       25.4        12.4        10.1        6.5
Financing                                  28.5       -30.5       -10.7      -25.0       -35.0       -12.4       -10.1       -6.5
Increase in net official reserves (-)      15.0      -30.5         2.9      -25.0       -35.0       -15.0       -10.1       -6.5
Use of IMF credit                        -1.3        4.3        12.3         5.8         5.7       -8.1        -9.8        -7.0
Increase in gross official reserves      16.3      -34.8        -9.4       -30.8      -40.7        -6.9        -0.3         0.5
Arrears accumulation (+)/payments(-)       13.5        0.1       -13.6         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Exceptional financing (rescheduling)       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Financing Gap                               0.0         0.0        12.0         9.8        9.6         0.0         0.0        0.0
Memorandum items:
Current accountbalance, excluding          -12.4       -6.2       -10.6        -7.6       -7.0        -6.4        -5.6        -5.6
official transfers (in percent of GDP) I/
Exports, fo.b. (annual growth)             -18.7       -8.4        10.4         8.3        7.9         9.6         9.8        7.4
Imports, c.i.f., (annual growth) 1/         8.2       -19.1        20.1         2.2        7.1         8.3         8.0         7.6
Export volume growth                        14.3       -7.4         6.4         2.0        5.4         5.0         6.2         5.0
Importvolumegrowth                          19.6      -21.4        10.8         6.2        7.1         6.8         6.7         6.4
Trade balance (in percent of GDP)          -11.5       -4.9        -9.3        -6.2       -5.7        -5.1        -4.3        -4.4
Net official reserves (end-period)          74.9      105.4       102.5       127.5      162.5       177.5       187.5       202.5
(In weeks ofimports,c.i.f.) 1/             6.7        11.6         9.4        11.5       13.6        13.8        13.5       13.5
Gross official reserves (end-period) 3/    123.2      157.0       166.9       198.3      239.0       246.0       246.3      245.8
(In weeks of imports, c.i.f.) I/           11.0       17.3        15.3        17.8       20.1        19.1        17.7        16.4
Outstanding arrears (end-period)            13.5       13.6         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Debt service (in percent of goods and        7.3        8.3         7.6         6.1        6.4         6.4         6.1         5.7
services) 2/
Extemaldebtstock2/                        753.1       860.6       948.9     1,049.3     1,145.1    1,213.1     1,279.4    1,333.7
Extemal debt stock (in percent of GDP)     72.3        88.5        90.0        90.8       89.5        86.5        84.0        80.6
2/
NPV of extemal debt stock (in percent of    57.2       59.6        57.9        55.7       52.8        50.1        47.9        45.5
GDP)
GDP (in millions of US dollars)            1,042        973       1,055       1,156      1,279       1,403       1,523       1,654
Sources: Mongolian authorities and IMF staffestimates and projections
Notes:
1/ Includes the import of an aircraft valued at $28.8 million in 1998
2/ Includes payments on CMEA debts that have been converted via formal intergovemmental agreements. Excludes unresolved
claims estimated at TR 10.5 billion to former CMEA members.
3/ Includes monetary gold and valuation effects
* For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the
Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted components have not been italicized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



- 54 -                                         Annex 3
MONGOLIA: SUMMARY OPERATIONS OF THE
GENERAL GOVERNMENT, 1997-2001
1997     1998           1999       1 2000     2001
Actual   Actual   Program  Est.    I    Program
(In billions of togrogs)
Total revenues and grants                       222.5    240.0    272.5    259.4    329.6    367.6
Total expenditure and net lending               287.6    342.1    370.6    344.4    414.9    460.8
Overall balance (incl. privatization receipts and grants)  -65.1    -102.1   -98.1    -84.9    -85.3    -93.2
Financing                                       65.1    102.1      98.1     84.9      85.3     93.2
Foreign (net)                                 92.8     68.6      89.1     85.0     85.3      99.7
Domestic (net)/1                             -27.1     33.6       9.0     -0.1      0.0      -6.5
(In percent of GDP)
Total revenue and grants                        29.3      27.4     27.3     26.1      28.4     28.2
Current revenue                                  27.1     24.8     24.7     24.2      26.8     26.5
Tax revenue and social security contributions  21.6     17.6     19.4     18.3     21.0      20.1
Income taxes                                 8.3      4.7      4.3       4.2      4.7      4.8
Social security contributions                2.8      3.0      2.7       3.0      3.2      3.3
Sales tax and VAT                            5.0      5.3      7.0       5.9      7.0      6.2
Excise taxes                                 2.7      2.8      2.9       2.7      3.0      2.5
Customs duties and export taxes              1.2      0.2      0.8       0.9      1.7       1.8
Othertaxes                                   1.7      1.6       1.5      1.6      1.4       1.6
Nontax revenue                                 5.5       7.2      5.4      5.9       5.8      6.3
Of which: BOM profit transfer)               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2      0.2
Capital revenue and grants                        2.2      2.6      2.5       1.9      1.5      1.7
Of which: Privatization receipts             1.4      1.7       1.6      1.2      0.9      1.1
Total expenditure and net lending                37.9     39.1     37.1     34.6      35.7     35.3
Current expenditure                              25.4     25.4     24.1     23.6      24.5     23.9
Wages and salaries                             5.9       6.4      5.9      6.2      6.8       6.7
Purchase of goods and services                11.0      11.4      9.6      9.2      8.7       8.6
Subsidies to public enterprises                0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1      0.0       0.0
Transfers                                      5.7       6.3      6.3      6.5       6.8      6.8
Interestpayments/2                             2.8       1.3      2.1      1.8      2.1       1.7
Of which: On bank restructuring bonds 31     1.8      0.7      0.9       0.6      0.9      0.6
Capital expenditure and net lending              12.5     13.7     13.0      11.0     11.2     11.4
Capital expenditure                            3.9       3.9      4.6      3.5      4.1       4.2
Domestically financed 4/                     3.9      3.9      3.6       2.6      3.2      3.4
Foreign-financed                             -        0.0       1.1      0.9      0.9      0.8
Net lending                                    8.6       9.8      8.4      7.5      7.2       7.2
Current balance (incl. privatization receipts & grants)  1.8  -0.6  0.7      0.6       2.4      2.6
Overall balance (incl. privatization receipts & grants)   -8.6    -11.7  -9.8  -8.5   -7.3     -7.1
Financing                                         8.6     11.7      9.8      8.5       7.3      7.1
Foreign (net)                                 12.2       7.8      8.9      8.5      7.3       7.6
Project loans                                8.9      8.4      9.0       7.6      7.8      7.7
Cash loans 5/                                5.8      0.9       2.3      2.4      0.9       1.4
Amortization 6/                              2.5      1.4       2.4      1.4      1.4       1.4
Domestic (net) 1/                             -3.6       3.8      0.9      0.0      0.0      -0.5
Ofrwhich: Banking system, net               -3.3      3.8      0.9       0.0      0.0     -0.5
Memorandum items:
Overall balance (excl. privatization receipts)   -9.9    -13.3    -11.4     -9.7      -8.2     -8.2
Overall balance (excl. grants)                   -9.4    -12.6    -10.6     -9.2      -8.0     -7.1
Primary balance (incl. privatization receipts)   -5.8    -10.4     -7.7     -6.8      -5.2     -5.4
Govemment debt-to-GDP ratio (in percent)         57.9     63.7     75.3     75.7      79.0     81.2
Domestic 7/                                    7.8       7.4      8.7      7.4      7.9       6.5
Foreign 8/                                    50.0      56.4     66.6     68.3     71.1      74.6
Social expenditure                               17.2     18.1     16.6      17.4     16.6     16.6
Of which: Social security and social assistance  5.6    5.9       5.7      5.8      6.0       6.0
Of which: Education and health                 9.9      10.4      9.6     10.0      9.4       9.4
Defense expenditure                               2.0      1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8      1.8
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the
Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted components have not been italicized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



- 55 -                                          Annex 3
Sources: Ministry of Finance; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
1/ For 2000, higher than programmed costs of banking sector reform and regularization of the govemment's relations with the BOM
would be financed from the domestic banking system up to an amount of Tog 5 billion.
2/ Includes Tog 2.5 billion in arrears on bank restructuring bonds accumulated in 1998 to be cleared in 1999
3/ For 2000, assumes all restructuring bonds bear a uniforn 15 percent interest rate. Provision is made for the carrying costs on
additional bond issued for the possible recapitalization/liquidation of Agricultural Bank (Tog 9.6 billion) and the reconstitution of
social security and pension fund claims on Reconstruction Bank and ITI bank (Tog 8.5 billion)
4/ Local govemment domestically financed capital expenditure for 1999 is excluded from program; included in projections.
5/ For 2000, includes ADB govemance loan of US$10 million.
6/ The amortization figure in the 1999 projection includes the clearance of arrears (US$11 million) accumulated in 1998.
7/ Bank restructuring bonds are included in the interest payments and debt stock calculations, but their issuance is excluded from
domestic deficit financing.
8/ Includes debt serviced by the budget or through the budget by recipients of on-lent funds.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the
Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted components have not been italicized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



- 56 -                                                 Annex 3
MONGOLIA AT A GLANCE
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Asia &     Low.
Mongolia   Pacific  income      Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                    2.6    1,817    3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                400       990       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   1.0    1.802    1844    f
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                 T
Population (%)                                     1.9       1.2      1.7    1
Laborforce (%)                                     2.6       1.6      1.9     GNP                  ..      Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                         capita                      enro8lment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  36
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)              62       35        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    66       69        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            52       37       69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)          12       20                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              54       77        74
Illiteracy (%N of population age 15+)               ..       15        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  88    117       108           -     Mongolia
Male                                              86      119       113                 Low-incomegroup
Female                                           91       118       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997     1998                          _
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                          ..      -.    0.96       1.04
Gross domestc investmenUGDP                 ..   45.7       23.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP           ..   27.5       67.9     50.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                        15.2      23.9
Gross national savingslGDP                           ..     22.7
CurrentaccountbatancelGDP                            ..      1.3    -11.2                    /
Interest payments/GDP                                ..      2.0      0.7     Domestc  +   .             Investment
Total debtlGDP                                       ..    74.7      70.9     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                          ..       9.3      6.2
Present value of debtGDP                    ..      ..    48.0
Presentvalueofdebt/exports                  ..      ..    71.1
Indebtedness
197747 1988-98    1997       1998  1999403
(average annual growth)
GDP                               6.5    -0.9      4.0       3.5                    -Mongolia
GNP per capita                    3.5    -2.4      1.8       3.2       ..                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..      ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997     1998    | Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                   i1
Agdculture                                  ..   14.4       33.5     32.7       T
Industry                                    ..   37.9       27.5     27.6      o
Manufacturing                             ..      ..        ..        ..                9s4   s    se  97 n7
Services                                    ..   47.8       39.0     39.7    -10
Private consumption                         ..   54.7       60.3       ..   -20
General govemment consumption               ..   30.1       15.8        .                   GDO      -eGDP
Imports of goods and services               ..   58.0       67.1     62.0
197747 1988-98      1997      1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                2.2     1.0       4.8      3.1
Industry                                   7.6    -2.8       3.9      3.3
Manufacturing                             ..
Services                                   7.0    -0.1       3.8      3.8
Private consumpton
General govemment consumption               ..
Gross domestic investment                   ..
Imports of goods and services               ..
Gross national product                     6.5    -0.3       3.6      4.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond w
be incomplete.
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted Components under the
Financial Sector Reforrm Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted Components have not been italiCized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



-57 -                                                      Annex 3
Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation (-)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       300
Consumer prices                               ..       ..      36.7      9.      20
implicit GDP deflator                          ..     0.8      24.4     11.6
150
Government Finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                               ..   46.4        27.3     23.3              93   94   ss   sr,   97   9S
Current budget balance                        ..    -5.5        1.8     -1.2                  GDP deflator  -*- CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..  -18.7        -8.6    -11.2
TRADE
(USSmillions)  1977    1987  1997  1998  Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
I1(US$ millions)
,Total exports (fob)                           ..    718        568       439     600 _
na.                                          ..
n.a.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400
Manufactures                                ..
Total imports (cif)                                 1,105      538       548
Food                                        ..   ..   ..   ..  200                                 liii
Fuel and energy                             ..
Capital goods
Export price index (1995=100)                                                         92  93  94  95  98  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..                           m.Expons                     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..    908       648       516      4
Imports of goods and services                  ..  1,889       626       637
Resource balance                                    -981        23      -121       0
92 939
Net income                                     ..    -11        -14        1
Net current transfers                                  0          4               4 -   
Currentaccountbalance                          ..    993         13     -117
Financing items (net)                         ..   1,027        45        B9
Changes in net reserves                        ..    -35        -57       28       2
Memo:
(Reserves including gold (US$ mrilions)         ..      ..      200       103
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               -              790.0    840.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998                              _
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS miltio
jTotal debt outstanding and disbursed           ..      ..      718       739
IBRD                                        ..                 o         0 0
IDA                                         ..                97       118    I            57
Total debt service                             .        ..      60        32
IBRO                                        ..       ..        0         0                                    Cue
iDA                                         ..        ..        1        1 
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..       ..       57
Official creditors                          ..       ..      209        74         E. 29
Pnvate creditos                             ..       ..        9         ..                         i       D189
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..        7
Portfolio equity                                     ..        0
IWorid Bank program
Commitments                                          ..       29        ..     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        ..       34        17      B- IDA    D- Other multilateral F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                 ..        0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-te
Netflows                                             ..       34        17
Interest payments                            -1                          1
Net transfers                                        ..       33        16
Development Economics                                                                                              9/7199
For ease of reference, ADB and IDA conditions are reflected in this matrix. ADB--assisted components under the
Financial Sector Reform Program have been italicized; IDA-assisted components have not been italicized. There is no
cross-conditionality.



-58-                                         Annex 4
MONGOLIA: PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Mongolia: Status Of Bank Group Operations
Difference Between
Board                                                Last PSR                                                     Expected and Actual
Date                                            Supervision Rating bl         Oticiinal Amount in US$ Millions     Disbursements
Fiscal                                       Dvlpin    mlnetto
Year  Active Projects                        Obevecooment  PmPcmeteson       IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
1994    P004342   TRANSPORT REHABILITA             S            S                 0      29.69         0      5.02      4.53        0
1996    P035697   MONGOLIA COAL PROJ.              S            S                 0      32.66         0      3.77      4.54        0
1996    P036417   POVERTY ALLEVIATION              S            S                 0       8.91         0      3.97      4.32        0
1997    P047683   BANK,ENT,LEG,TA(BELT             S            S                 0       2.06         0      0.99      0.65        0
1998    P051855   MN-FISCAL ACCTG TA               S            S                 0       5.21         0      4.75      2.79        0
1998    P036052   ULAANBAATARSERV.IMP              S            U                 0      16.87         0    13.16        1.7        0
1999    P049789   MN-PRIV.SEC. DEVrCR              S            S                 0      12.21         0    12.21       1.02        0
MONGOLIA: PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio in Mongolia
As of 8/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1997 SEF G&M Leather  1.05    0.2        0      0  1.05    0.2     0      0
Total Portfolio:        1.05    0.2     0      0  1.05    0.2     0      0



