Report No. PID8687
Project Name                     Mongolia-Financial Sector Adjustment (@)
Credit
Project ID                       MNPE68071
Borrower(s)                      Government of Mongolia
Implementing agency              Bank of Mongolia
P.O. Box Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
Attn: Mr. J. Unenbat
Governor of the Bank of Mongolia
Tel: (976-1) 311-471;
Fax: (976-1) 311-471
Environment Category             C
Date of this PID                 April 19, 2000
Appraisal Date                   February 2000
Projected Board Date             April 20, 2000
Country and Sector Background.
Mongolia has a population of about 2.6 million
people and per capita income of US$400. In 1990,
Mongolia achieved a peaceful transition to
democracy, despite an economic collapse. Free and
open parliamentary elections in 1990 and 1992 kept
the former communist Mongolian People's
Revolutionary Party (MPRP) in power until June 1996.
It became a member of the World Bank, International
Development Association (IDA) and International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in February 1991.
The Government initiated the process of economic
liberalization, with substantial backing from the
international community; however, the pace of
reforms slowed down in the mid-1990s, just as the
economy started to recover. In June 1996, in the
face of a severe banking crisis, the new Government,
with strong support from donors, launched an
ambitious program to complete the transition to a
private sector-led market economy, accelerate
economic growth, and reduce poverty. Financial
sector restructuring and modernization were key
components of the program. These changes spawned a
vigorous private sector response, enabling the
overall level of economic activity to recover and
agriculture reassumed a dominant place in the
economy.
Following the initial transition period, when the
output plummeted, Mongolia achieved a sustained
recovery during 1994-98, with real GDP growth
averaging 3.6w, exceeding the 1.7w population growth



rate. The abrupt deterioration in the terms of trade
since 1998, however, jeopardizes many of Mongolia's
gains. Early efforts to devise a suitable policy
response were thwarted by domestic political
turmoil. While there has been broad acceptance in
the country for implementing a major program of
economic liberalization, there have been differences
of opinion on the pace of reforms, as well as how to
deal with weaknesses in the financial sector.
In May 1999, the Government adopted a strong,
medium-term program to adjust to the impact of the
terms of shocks experienced during 1998-99,
including a package to augment fiscal revenue. The
full-year effects of these tax measures, together
with public administration reform and further
privatization are projected to narrow the general
Government's overall deficit to 7.39 of GDP in 2000.
Inflation is projected to decelerate to 7% in 2000.
Mongolia's banking sector is both small, with total
assets of only US$200 million, and heavily over
banked. During its evolution to a market-based
financial system, the banking sector has experienced
recurring crises and failures, most notably in 1994,
1996 and 1998/1999. The banking system is currently
in a fragile state. There is a severe shortage of
skills in the banking sector, and legal and
institutional gaps in the sector's framework. The
payment system in rural areas has also been subject
to disruptions in recent years due to both the
fiscal crisis and to liquidity problems at
Agricultural Bank, the main provider of such
services.
Project Objectives. The proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC) will support the
Government's medium-term strategy for financial
sector reform and development needed to achieve
macroeconomic stability, accelerate private sector-
led growth and reduce poverty. The main components
of this strategy, which will facilitate the
development of a sound and efficient financial
system, include: (a) the establishment of basic
financial infrastructure (e.g., banking skills,
accounting standards, enforcement of financial
contracts, and a clear exit policy framework for
troubled banks); (b) the consolidation of the
banking system; (c) the divestiture of the
Government's ownership in Trade and Development
Bank; (d) the development of effective regulation
and supervision of the financial system; (e) the
improvement of the payment system in rural areas;
and (f) the confirmation of Government's commitment
to honor financial contracts by timely servicing
-2 -



Government bonds.
Project Description. Proceeds from the credit will
be used to close the projected 2000-2002 balance of
payments financing gap of US$32 million and to free-
up bank credit for private sector development and
faster economic growth, by enabling Government to
reduce substantially its large stock of net domestic
credit from the domestic banking system, and help
fund the cost of bank restructuring.
Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Bank's
environmental policies, sectoral adjustment loans
are subject to the Bank's environmental assessment
(EA) requirements. This is a sectoral adjustment
credit providing purely balance of payments support
to the economy and is not anticipated to have any
direct identifiable environmental impacts associated
with the proposed policy interventions. To address
environmental impacts associated with its future
downstream activities, the Agricultural Bank's
restructuring plan will include developing and
adopting procedures acceptable to IDA for screening,
evaluating, and mitigating the potential adverse
environmental impacts of its future operations.
Implementation Arrangements. The Governor's office,
Bank of Mongolia, in consultation with the Ministry
of Finance, will take the lead in the preparation of
the project and will oversee and coordinate its
implementation by the various beneficiary agencies.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Irfan Aleem
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-4755
Fax:       (202) 522-3094
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 21,
2000.
-3-



