Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3334 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 27, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3334 MOG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 2000, between MONGOLIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 
28, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's financial sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches and one floating tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine." \0c
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions";
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c)
 Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.";
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning.
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty four million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR24,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
Page  3
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR9,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between 
the Borrower and the 
Association; and  
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Section I to this 
Agreement have 
been taken. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in 
respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
(e)
Without limitations upon provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower may, at any time after the effectiveness of this Agreement, withdraw from the 
Credit Account an amount of SDR6,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between 
the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2, Section II to this 
Agreement have 
been taken. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
Page  4
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2010, and ending January 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2020, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Develop\1fment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have:
(i)
maintained a sound macroeconomic framework as determined on the 
basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; 
(ii)
adopted a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
to mitigate 
external commodity risk and terms of trade shocks;
(iii)
adopted a plan, satisfactory to the Association, to establish a 
payment system 
network to provide payment services to the soum 
level, which plan may include 
the use of certain branches and 
sub-branches of the Agricultural Bank or other 
entities qualified 
to provide this service;
(iv)
furnish to the Association evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that all 
the interest on its Bank Restructuring Bonds 
as of the date of this Agreement 
have been paid;
(v)
issued a regulation, satisfactory to the Association, providing 
for the prompt 
and timely servicing of all its Bank Restructuring 
Bonds, including linkage of 
their interest rate to those of the 
Central Bank Bills Rate (CBBR);
(vi)
issued instructions to Savings Bank, satisfactory to the 
Association, to adopt 
and implement an asset-liability management 
policy, including prudent 
management of liquidity and funding 
Page  6
needs and payment of interest for deposits 
at competitive market 
rates, satisfactory to the Association; and
(vii)
adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to 
develop a 
comprehensive program to strengthen the financial 
sector, including banking 
and supervision skills, accounting and 
auditing standards, and enforcement of 
financial contracts.
(b)
The Bank of Mongolia shall have issued a regulation, satisfactory to the 
Association, providing for asset classification criteria to include assets other than 
loans as well as loans. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Commercial Street 6/1
Ulaanbaatar- 11
Mongolia
Facsimile:
9761320247
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MONGOLIA
By /s/ J. Choinhor 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths'
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
Page  8
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I: 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
implemented the action plan to mitigate external commodity risk and terms 
of trade shocks, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
implemented the Agricultural Bank restructuring plan, in a manner and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
replaced all outstanding Bank Restructuring Bonds with marketable and 
tradable securities that provide adequate yield, liquidity and negotiability;
(d)
adopted a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to 
privatize the Savings Bank; and
(e)
implemented the comprehensive program referred to in Section 5.01 (a) 
(vii) of this Agreement, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Banking Law has been amended to provide for: 
(a)
mandatory actions ("prompt corrective action") to be imposed 
automatically by Bank of Mongolia whenever the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of any 
bank falls below 75% and 50% of the minimum CAR required level as determined by Bank 
of Mongolia, including the development and implementation of a capital restoration 
plan, restrictions on asset growth and on new activities, and implementation of a 
management improvement plan; 
(b)
an effective failure resolution mechanism, including mandatory placement 
of a bank under receivership by Bank of Mongolia, whenever the Capital Adequacy Ratio 
(CAR) of any bank falls below 25 % of the minimum CAR required level as determined by 
Bank of Mongolia, or when the bank suspends payments to liability holders;
(c)
 prompt and effective intervention of the Bank of Mongolia whenever any 
one of the objective factors expressly stated in the Banking Law, as amended, occur, 
including legal evidence of fraud by the owners and management of the bank, legal 
evidence of incompetent management, and lack of compliance with instructions issued by 
the Bank of Mongolia pursuant to law; and
(d)
the process for  liquidation of a bank's residual assets after failure of 
the resolution mechanism has taken place.
3.
The Bank of Mongolia shall have implemented an action plan, satisfactory to the 
Page  9
Association, to strengthen its credit information bureau and facilitate sharing of 
information on loan defaulters among the commercial banks and the Bank of Mongolia.
4.
The Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MARA) has been legally empowered to sell 
recovered assets at discounts, including through auctions, and to operate on a 
commercial basis.
Section II: 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
A private sector strategic investor with recognized international banking 
experience has acquired a controlling share-holding in the Trade and Development Bank. 
