ofzTs                                      ~~~~~~~~R4STRICTED
WI-T_AA                                                      Report No.  PU-97
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be pu'blished, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TURKEY
June 14, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =         Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1                  =         TL 14.0
US$ 1 million          =         TL lh,OOO,OOO
TL 1                   =         US$ 0.071
TL 1 million                     US$ 71,429
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
mm       =      millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
m        =      meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km       =      kilometer (1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2             square kilometer j(l km2   2h7.1 acres)
m2       =       square meter (l m= 10.76 sq ft)
m3       =      cubic meter  (1 m3 = 26h.2 US gallons)
m3/sec   =      cubic meters per second (1 m3/sec   22.8 million US gallons
per day)
-m3/day   a     cubic meters per day (100,000 m3/day = 26.4 million US gallons
per day)
m3/year  =      cubic meters per year (1 million m3/year = 723,753 US gallons
per day)
lcd      =      liters per capita per day (1 lcd - 0.26 US gallons per capita
per day)
DSI      =      State Hydraulic Works
SI      =      Istanbul Water Administration
YSE      =      General Directorate for Roads, Water and Electricity
EEC      =      European Economic Community
IETT     =      Istanbul Electricity, Tunnel and Transport Company
UNDP     =      United Nations  Development Program
WHO      =       Wbrld Health Organization
DAMOC    =      A consortium of consulting engineers, comprising:
Daniel, Mann, Johnson & Mendenhall (USA)
Alvord, Burdick & Howson (USA)
Motor-Colombus (Switzerland)
Checchi & Company (USA)
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Turkey (includin DSI) = March 1 to February 28
Istanbul Water Administration (ISI) = January 1 to December 31



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF THE ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ATD CONCLUSIONS  ...............................   i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION . ..........................................  1
II.    THE WATER SUPPLY  SECTOR AND TlE URBAN  REGION  OF
ISTANBUL          ............................................    1
Sector Organization  ..............................    1
The Urban Region of Istanbul  .....................    3
(i)   Water Supply  ................................    3
(ii)   Sewerage  .........             ...........................    4
III.    THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY  ..................... .                         4
The Borrower  .........             ............................    4
The Beneficiary - ISI ......t...........                                 4
(i)   Organization  and Management ....                  .............    4
(ii)   Future  Organization  .........................    7
The Role of DSI  ..................................    8
IV.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ..................                                     9
The Program              ..........................                      9
The Project             ......................................   10
Project  Cost Estimates  .......... ..               ...............   13
Procurement         ..................       ....................   14
Amount  of Loan  ................              ...................   16
Disbursement          .................      ....................   16
Project Administration  .......... ..                ...............   17
(i)   L)ST component  ..............              .................   17
(ii)   ISI component  ..............                .................   17
(iii)   Coordination  Between  ISI and DSI  ..... .......  18
(iv)   Operation and Maintenance  of Dams  .... .......  18
Environmental Aspects  ........... ..                ...............   18
V.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ................................   19
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions consisting of
Messrs. Grover, Hlayden, Bargholtz and Callejas and Messrs. Grover and Hayden
which visited Turkey in October-November 1971 and March 1972 respectively.



Table of contents continued
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS .....................................  20
Past Record and Present Position of ISI ....           ...........  20
(i)  Tariffs ..........................................  20
(ii)  Billing and Collection of Accounts ....           ...........  21
(iii)  Audit .........        ...................................  21
Financing Plan 1972-76 ................................  22
Future Finances of ISI ................................  23
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ............  24
A            LIST OF ANNEXES
Annexes
1    Water Supply Sector in the Istanbul Urban Region
2    Existing Water Supply Facilities in the Istanbul Urban Region
3    The Program and the Project
4    Cost Estimates for DSI and ISI Project Components
5    Construction Schedule
6    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7    Projected Water Demand and Water Sales
8    Economic Justification
9    Organization of ISI
10    Estimated Annual Expenditures on DSI Program 1967-1977
11    DSI (Region XIV) Cash Flow Statements 1967-1981
12    Estimated Annual Expenditures of ISI Program 1972-1976
13    ISI Income Statements, 1968-1980
14    ISI Cash Flow Statements, 1968-1980
15    ISI Balance Sheets, 1968-1980
16    Notes on ISI Financial Statements
Maps
1    Istanbul Province
2    Istanbul Urban Region



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF THE ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Istanbul is thirsty.  The population of the urban region of Istan-
bul has grown from about one million in 1950 to about three million today
but its water supply has not expanded to meet this growth. A continuous
shortage of water now makes life unpleasant and impedes development in
Turkey` slargest city.
ii.       A master plan for water and sewerage in_the region has been pre-
pared by congii1r>tsL under a WOUNDproSSject.  Based on this plan a major
investment program which will alleviate the water shortages and cater for
demand in the future has already been started. Initially, it consists of
the development of t+,bMajor sources of                 er,               n
treatment, pumping and distribution facilities.  Bank assistaiwe has been
requested by the Government of Turkey to help finance these works, and for
this purpose a project has been defined which consists of those works in the
program which can be initiated and substantially completed by DSI and ISI in
the period 1972-76. The project includes treatment plants, pumping stations
and major pipelines to transmit water from the new sources to populated areas
on both sides of the Bosphorus, and a pipeline underneath the Bosphorus to
connect the independent water systems in Europe and Asia. The distribution
system in Istanbul would be substantially strengthened and extended as part
of the project.
iii.      Responsibility for d4,jqU_   gvter rests with local agencies,
mainly the                                         hich serves the 75% of the
region's population who live in Istanbul Municipality. The State Hydraulic
Works S(.DS14,-a national agency, Jis responsible for constructing all facili-
ties required to deliver treated water to the urban area.- bSv will pay for
and operate these facilities when they are completed.
iv.       Major objectives of the project are the rationalization of the water
supply sector in the Istanbul region and institutional improvements in IS1.
The Government has agreed to establish a water supply authority with ISI as
its basis to serve the metropolitan area. ISI is to be strengthened and made
more efficient with the assistance of consultants. Pending the creation of
this regional authority, ISI will sell water by contract to water agencies
outside Istanbul Municipality.
v.        The total cost of the project is estimated at TL 1,192 million
(US$85.1 million), of which the DSI component would be 59% or TL 700 million
(US$50.0 million). Total program expenditures in the five year period 1972-
76 are estimated at TL 1,424 million (US$101.7 million).



- ii -
vi.       The proposed Bank loan of US$37.0 million would be lent to the Gov-
ernment and relent to ISI on Bank terms. These funds would finance 38% of
the project costs, consisting of estimated foreign exchange costs of IS$20.5
million and US$5.0 million for interest charges of the Bank loan, plus US$11.5
million of local currency costs. Bank funds would provide 32% of the capital
requirements for the total water supply program during 1972-76. A government
loan would provide 48% and the balance (20%) would be provided by ISI's inter-
nal cash generation and capital contributions.
vii.      As a result of the program water sales by ISI are expected to double
in the next five years. Water rates will be set to enable ISI to earn a 7%
return on the net fixed assets from 1974 through 1976 and 8% thereafter.
viii.     The internal economic rate of return of the total investment pro-
gram, of which the project is an integral part, is conservatively estimated
at 10.6%.
ix.       On the basis of agreement reached during negotiations, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$37.0 million for a period of 25 years in-
cluding a five year grace period.



tj"RKEY
APPRAISAL OF THE ISTANBUL WATER STUPLY PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTTON
1.01      The Government of Turkey has asked the Bank Group to help finance
development in the istanbul urban region. A Bank loan of US$37.0 million is
proposed for a water supply project and an IDA credit of US$2.3 million for
a project to prepare an integrated urban program for Istanbul. The proposed
package of lending combines financial assistance for a high priority project
plus direct assistance to the Turkish authorities for urban planning and the
preparation of subsequent projects.  This report appraises thR water supply
project: the urban program preparation is the subject of a separate ap-
praisal report.  This would be the Bank Group's first lending to Turkey for
either purpose.
1.02      The water supply project is part of a major program now underway
to eliminate water shortages throughout the Istanbul urban region, withouti
which development in Turkey's most important city will be seriously retarded.
The Government of Turkey will be the borrower of the proposed loan and will
relend it to the Istanbul Water Administration (ISI), the agency now respon-
sible for water supply in Istanbul Municipality. A second agency, the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI), is responsible for designing and constructing a major
part of the water supply project on behalf of ISI.
1.03      Master plans for water supply, sewerage and storm drainage for
the Istanbul region were completed in 1971 under a UNDP/WHO project. A Bank
reconnaissance mission reviewed progress on the preparation of this master
plan in October 1969. Several pre-appraisal missions visited Turkey in con-
nection with a possible water supply project in 1970 and 1971. The Govern-
ment submitted a formal request for a loan for water supply in October 1971
along with a proposal which was prepared with the assistance of three UNDP
advisers. A Bank consultant (Van Hlouten Associates) visited Istanbul in
January 1972 to examine proposals for a pipeline underneath the Bosphorus.
1.04      Appraisal missions visited Turkey in October/November 1971
(Messrs. Grover, Hlayden, Callejas and Bargholtz) and in March 1972
(Messrs. Grover and Hiayden). This appraisal report is based on the UNDP/WHO
master plan, the report of the Bank consultant, on iniformation received from
the water supply agencies involved and on the findings of the missions.
IT. ThE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR AND THE URBAN REGION OF ISTANBUL
Sector Organization
2.01      Development of water supply in the Istanbul urban region has not
kept pace with the growth of population, and the region is currently going
through a period of crisis due to shortages of water.  Today's acute water



-2-
shortage has been caused principally by the lack of capital available in
past years to finance new schemes. A related problem, however, is that the
sector has been fragmented and uncoordinated, with nogregional organization.
In Turkey the responsibility for providing water rest  eE verl=ent at the
municipal level. The provincial administrations have very limited authority
over infrastructure investments. The public works departments of most local
authorities deal with water supply, although larger municipalities may have
a special agency for this function.
2.02      Lack of finance and technical expertise at the local level have
resulted generally in inadequate water supplies. Accordingly, the Central
Government provides assistance - both technical and financial - to local
government by means of three different agencies as follows:
Agency of                Ministry to   Communities to    Number of Communities
Central Government       which Agency  which Assistance  in Turkey (according
is Attached     is Provided          to 1970 Census)
State Hydraulic          Energy and    Municipalities             24
Works (DSI)              Natural        greater than
Resources     100,000 population
Bank of the Provinces   Reconstruc-   Municipalities             669
(Iller Bankasi)          tion and      greater than
Resettlement  2,000 population
General Directorate      Village        Villages Less            n.a.
for Roads, Water and    Affairs         than 2,000
Electricity (YSE)                       population
The involvement of DSI in water supply for large cities is rather recent.
Law 1053 of 1968 enables DSI to assist all communities larger than 100,000
and provides specifically for DSI to assist the two most important cities
in Turkey, Istanbul and Ankara. This law is reproduced on page 7 of Annex 1.
DSI is presently constructing major facilities to meet the Istanbul region's
water demands. Although definite arrangements have not yet been made to en-
sure that their benefits will be shared by the entire region, appropriate
arrangements are expected to be made during the project period (paras 3.10
and 3.11).
2.03      The Central Government does not operate and maintain water systems.
Its three agencies help local communities by planning, financing and build-
ing projects, but responsibility for operation of each scheme rests with the
local authority. Most financial assistance is in the form of loans, but
with the prevailing inadequate charges for water supply, municipalities do
not always repay these loans. The organization of the sector is described
further in the first part of Annex 1.



3-
The Urban Region of Istanbul
(i) Water Supply
2.04      Istanbul, Turkey's largest and most important city, has a history
which extends over twenty-six centuries. Parts of its ancient water systems
are in use today (see Maps and Annex 2). When new and larger sources were
required near the end of the 19th century, the Government granted concessions
to private water companies to develop the original Terkos and Elmali systems
(Annex 2). In 1933 the Government passed legislation creating the Istanbul
Water Administration (Istanbul Sular Idaresi, or ISI) as the public water
supply agency of Istanbul Municipality. Facilities of the private companies
were purchased and handed over to ISI. Thus ISI inherits a long tradition
of service.
2.05      Istanbul Municipality, with a 1971 population of about 2.2 million
and an area of 1,558 sq km, is only one of a number of municipalities in the
Istanbul urban region. The urban region extends along the Bosphorus and
Marmara coast from Kucukcekmece Lake to Gebze, and includes twenty-one muni-
cipalities and numerous villages (Annex 3, para 1). The population of the
region was about one million in 1950, and almost three million in 1971.
2.06      Although each community is responsible for its own water supply,
several communities can form a "union of municipalities" to develop a re-
gional water system. Two of these unions exist in the Istanbul urban region,
both of which are independent of ISI. The Kartal Union in Asia consists of
nine municipalities and ten villages with a 1970 population of some 140,000.
The Mahmutbey Union in Europe, with four municipalities and ten villages,
has about the same population. They are described in Annex 1.
2.07      1ST o ates          Lsystemso_each  ideof theBoshr.s, each
supplied mainly by the surface water sources originally developed by the
private water companies. In Europe the principal source is Terkos Lake,
whose water is treated at Kagithane (Map 1). In Asia the two Elmali dams
provlde the basic supply. The transmission and distribution systems are
inadequate.
2.08      Up to 40X of the population of Istanbul Municipality relies on some
1800 public hydrants for its supply. In 1971 the estimated demand for water
in the Municipality was 149 lcd (Annex 7) but total water sales are estimated
to have provided only 93 lcd, 1/ of which some 90% came from ISI sources
1/   For comparison, per capita consumption figures for other cities are as
follows:
Baltimore, USA       -         526 lcd (1969)
Hamburg, Germany    -           167 lcd (1963)
Sao Paulo, Brazil   -          200 lcd (1969)
Lahore, Pakistan    -           90 lcd (1970)



- 4 -
(annex 2). Sales through the 242,235 connections (including public hydrants)
account for only 64% of the water pumped from sources. Much water is lost
through leaks in the system and an undetermined proportion is unaccounted
for due to faulty metering. Major efforts have been made to reduce losses,
from 45% ten years ago to an estimated 34% in 1971 but they remain high.
Due to the shorta e                  pies arejre~g9ently empty, particularly
in                 vendors do a    ing water of question-
at prices up to 2   times higher than        s metered rate.  ISI
also operates water tankers to augment the supply in certain residential
areas. Details of the ISI system are in Annex 2.
2.09      All other municipalities in the urban region rely on groundwater.
The water table is falling throughout most of the region and salinity is in-
creasing near the coast due to overpumping. Shortages exist in every system.
Generally, industries are not supplied from the public system, and have been
forced to develop their own wells and/or transport water by truck. Many in-
dustries are unable to set up in the region because of water shortages.
(ii) Sewerage
2.10      Responsibility for sewerage rests with the local authorities.
These wasteatel systems are zgnerally  nee  worse condition than the
water supplies.  DSI is authorized to help large municipalities on sewerage
and drainage problems (but is not currently doing so) and the Bank of the
Provinces is providing some support for smaller municipalities. Only about
one-third of the population in the region is served by a water-borne waste
disposal system. Wastewater from the rest is carried by surface drains,
emptied into septic tanks or removed by tank trucks. The UNDP/WHO master
plan for the region provides a good basis for construction of a regional
system, but there is as yet neither organization nor funds to carry it out.
The Government has agreed to take appropriate steps to solve these problems
(para 4.29).
III. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
The Borrower
3.01      The Government of Turkey will be the borrower, and will relend
Bank funds to ISI on Bank terms by means of a subsidiary loan agreement.
ISI will be responsible for all repayments, and will make Bank Group funds
available to DSI for project components built by DSI.
The Beneficiary - ISI
(i) Organization and Management
3.02      ISI is a semi-autonomous water agency attached to Istanbul Munici-
pality. Its organization is described in Annex 9. While financially autono-
mous and relatively free from interference from the Municipality in day to day



- 5 -
operations, ISI has been subject to control by the Municipality in three
Principal respects:
(i)  three of the four board members of ISI, including the
General Director, are nominated by the Mayor; 1/
(ii)  all budgets and annual accounts of ISI must be reviewed
and approved by the Municipality; and
(iii)  new water rates have had to be approved by the M4unici-
pality (para 6.05).
3.03      ISI is controlled by a four-man Board under the chairmanship of the
General Director. The Board works full time and is intimately involved in
routine operations, giving the General Director extremely little Iztitude for
independent executive action.
3.04      The management of ISI, which consists generally of competent and
experienced engineers, has operated the authority reasonably well. Their per--
formance could be substantially increased with improvements in the organiza-
tion structure and the elimination of inefficient management practices. Under
the General Director there are three Assistant General Directors who are no-
minally responsible for the 20 separate departments, approximately half tech-
nical and half administrative (Annex 9). However, in practice all department
heads report directly to the General Director and the control exercised by the
Assistant General Directors is quite limited. Responsibility for new construc-
tion is split between several departments and operation of existing facilities
is similarly uncoordlinated.
3.05      The impending major expansion provides an opportune time to make
ifnprovements in ISI's organization.  The new General Director, appointed in
mid-1971, is anxious to improve the performance of the agency. Extensive
recommendations concerning institutional changes, which are more a matter of
streamlining and overcoming inertia than of drastic reforms, were made both
in the imiaster plan prepared by DAMOC (consultants for the UNDP/WHO project)
and by the UNDP acdvisers who helped prepare the 1971 proposal for Bank fi-
nancing (para 1.03). IST agrees in principle on the desirability of imnprov-
ing the organization and is taking steps, as recommended by the UNDP ad-
visers, to create and staff a new department to review organization and man-
agement proce(lures and to assist the General Director to implement changes.
During negotiations progress on this matter was discussed with ISI and agree-
ment was reached on the desirability of improving the organization, with
particular emphasis on:
(i)  redefining the role of the Board so that it can better
concentrate on policy matters;
(ii)  :;reater dele-ation of autlhority throughout the organization;
1/   And approved by the Ministry of the Interior.  The fourth board member
is nominated by the staff of ISI.



- 6 -
(iii) achieving better control over operating departments, for
example by grouping appropriate departments on a func-
tional basis under Assistant General Directors:
(iv) improving coordination, especially between planning,
design and construction departments and between operat-
ing and maintenance departments; and
(v) improving work methods in the operating and maintenance
departments to reduce water losses and decrease operating
costs.
The services of management consultants are required to assist ISI in:
(i) determining and implementing the appropriate organiza-
tional changes, drawing on the recommendations of the
DAMOC consultants and the UNDP advisers;
(ii) examining work methods throughout ISI; and
(iii) providing training for senior staff in modern management
techniques.
ISI has agreed to engage management consultants acceptable to the Bank by
October, 1972 to assist in these matters, and to submit general proposals
for improving its organization to the Bank for review and comment by the
end of 1972.
3.06      The historical accounting system used by ISI is ineffective as a
management tool. Basic information on assets and liabilities is produced in
semi-annual statements which are not available until about six months after
the end of the fiscal period. No further reports are provided to the manage-
ment. A government-type budgeting system is used, the principal objective of
which is to ensure that the necessary administrative procedures are followed
whenever it is necessary to exceed the authorized budget expenditure. The
DAMOC report outlined in detail proposals for improving ISI's accounting
system. In order to improve the accounting procedures and provide better fi-
nancial information to management, ISI has agreed to:
(i)  develop its accounting system in the light of the recommenda-
tions made by DAMOC;
(ii) employ accounting consultants acceptable to the Bank by
October, 1972 to assist in the adoption and implementation
of accounting changes and improvements;
(iii) appoint a budget and management director by October, 1972
to control the finances of ISI and to employ adequate account-
ing personnel;
(iv)  provide training for accounting staff in modern accouinting
techniques; and



- 7 -
(v) prepare promptly quarterly financial statements for ISI's
management and review by the Bank.
3.07      ISI employs about 34 engineers, mostly in senior management posi-
tions. There is a shortage of qualified technical staff and the limited
number available devote a considerable amount of time to routine tasks. Sala-
ries for engineers are low, in line witlh Government levels, and were adversely
affected by the 1970 Personnel Law. This law lowered salary scales and re-
duced opportunities for promotion for professional staff (Annex 9). ISI in-
tends to augment its technical staff to implement the project and engiaeering
consultants will be engaged to supplement ISI staff (paras 4.10 and 4.25).
3.08      Some 80% of the total ISI staff of 2,750 are hourly-paid workers,
almost entirely unionized. These workers received substantial increases in
benefits in accordance with the 1970 Personnel Law. Wages and salaries of
ISI staff increased by 60% in 1971 (para 6.04). Partly because it is lo-
cated in Turkey's most important city, ISI is an attractive employer with a
low staff turnover. The organization is further discussed in Annex 9.
(ii) Future Organization
3.09      IST's primary obligation is to provide water for Istanbul Munici-
pality an(d before it can provide facilities to distribute water to outside
municipalities it must conclude a special contract with such municipalities
(para 3.11). No such contracts presently exist. However, ISI will own and
operate all the new source facilities intended to serve the twenty-one muni-
cipalities in the urban region. As the program will provide the only practi-
cal sources of additional water for the outside municipalities, they have no
alternative to obtaining water from TSI.
3.10      There is general agreement that some form of regional organization
is required in the near future to plan and implement water supply throughout
the urban region.  The Government has agreed to c t          we       ithnrity3r f1  r
the region durin  theproject          .   egislation will be required to create
tr1_SoMraizatio       ichwi  llave the following characteristics:
(i) ST as its basiL
(ii)  a policy-making board with representation from all parts
of the region;
(iii)  responsibility for coordinating the planning, construction and
operation of major water supply facilities and for allocating
available water resources throughout the region;
(iv)  resDonsibility for operating distribution systems and selling
water directly to consumers within the service area, and for
selling water on a wholesale basis to other water agencies
within the rep,on; and
(v) autlhority to establish water rates in accordance with criteria
requiring the authority to finance a reasonable proportion of
its Euture expansion program.



- 8 -
The Government has agree to furnish to the Bank for comment draft 1.e;_islation
for the creation of this authority by the end of 1972.
3.11      In the interim before the creation of the re-ional water authority,
specific arrangements are required to enable the muanicipalities outside
Istanbul to benefit from the program.  Since these iiunicipalities have water
shortages and no alternative sources are available, they are expected to be
anxious to purchase water from ISI. ISI has agreed to sell available water
on a wholesale basis to any municipality or group of  utinicipalities willing
to enter into a contract for this purpose.  Among other things such conitracts
will specify:
(i)  the minimum amount of water to be sold, the basis for estab-
lishing the wholesale unit price, and arrangemients for prompt
payment of accounts to ISI;
(ii)  the basis for determining retail rates at which the water
would be sold to consumers; and
(iii)  arrangements for constructing and financing connections
between the systems of ISI and the outside municipality.
A prototype contract will be furnished to the Bank for review and comment
not later than April, 1974. If outside municipalities wish ISI to be re-
sponsible for their distribution systems, ISI would enter into appropriate
contracts and would take over such systems and sell water to customers on
a retail basis.
The Role of DSI
3.12      DSI, the Government's principal water resources agency, is develop-
ing new sources for the Istanbul water supply program under Law 1053 (para
2.02 and Annex 1). DSI is acting as a consulting engineer and contrac-
tor for ISI and, except for dams which a1ve-!TooC t-ontrot-gSFlTeII~a-water
supply functions, will hand over the facilities to ISI to operate and main-
tain when construction is finished.
3.13      DSI is a strong technical organization with a total staff of
16,900 including 1,190 engineers. It has considerable experience with irri-
gation and hydroelectric projects, including the Seyhan irrigation project
and the irrigation rehabilitation project which the Bank Group has helped
to finance, but is inexperienced in water supply. DSI has set up a regional
office in Istanbul, with a staff of 300 including 40 engineers, for the pur-
pose of implementing the water supply program there. The Regional Director
is a senior engineer who manages his organization effectively and has good
communications with the Ankara head office, where most designs and contracts
are prepared and where all important decisions are finalized. As a result
of the 1970 Personnel Law (para 3.07) morale is low and DSI presently finds
it difficult to retain experienced engineers.  The Government is aware of the
situation but has not yet taken steps to rectify the problem. If the situa-
tion does not improve, DSI may have to rely more on consulting engineers than
is indicated in para 4.23.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
4.01      Under the UNDP/WHO project, consultants (DAMOC) worked from '966
to 1971 to prepare a master plan for water supply and sewerage in the Istanbul
urban region, with DSI as the government counterpart organization. After es-
timating the long-term demand for water, DAMOC analyzed alternative souirces
of water and made recommendations for the most economic phased development
of these sources. Plans were prepared for the associated pumping stations,
treatment plants, transmission lines and distribution facilities. All plan-
ning was on a regional basis, ignoring administrative boundaries. DAMOC
completed preliminary engineering for improvements needed to meet the pro-
jected demand in 1985. Construction of the Alibey dam began in 1966.
4.02      DSI is responsible for building dams, pumping stations, treatment
plants and transmission mains to deliver treated water to the urban region.
On completion of construction, these works are handed over to ISI. ISI is
responsible for constructing the distribution system in Istanbul Munici-
pality. Total program expenditure during the period 1966-1984, expressed
in current prices, is expected to be of the order of TL 3,500 million
(US$ 251 million), of which construction carried out from 1966 to 1971 has
accounted for about TL 440 million (US$ 31 million). During the project
period, 1972-76, expenditure on the program by DSI and ISI is expected to
total TL 1,424 million (US$ 101.7 million: Annexes 10 and 12). ISI's net
fixed assets in 1977 are projected at nine times the 1971 value.
4.03      The  rogram will more t    triple th                   lf or the
snbul urban reon.  Two new sources will be developed:  Alibey reser-
voir in Europe and Omerli reservoir in Asia. The traditional major source
for European Istanbul, Terkos Lake, will be raised and its yield doubled by
diverting water to Istanbul through the Alibey reservoir (Map 1). The partly
constructed Alibey dam has already begun to augment the traditional sources
and the program will begin to make major additions to the system later in
1972, as shown below:



- 10 -
Capacity of Sources
Ye_                                         Individual Sources   Total
…----million m3 per year---
1971      Europe - Terkos Lake                    61.4
Alibey Cofferdam               8.0
Belgrade Forest Reservoirs   5.4
Groundwater                   12.0
Asia - Elmali Reservoirs                18.1
Existing System                                         104.9
1972      Terkos - Alibey Diversion               58.6            163.5
1975      Alibey Reservoir                        31.0            194.5
1975/76   Omerli Reservoir                       180.0            374.5
Present estimates indicate that the total capacity of the enlarged system
will be fully utilized by 1984, after which additional sources will be
requir-v.
4.04      Wtater from the three sources must be pumped and treated before it
can be distributed to consumers. At Terkos Lake a new pumping station has
been built for the Terkos-Alibey diversion and to replace the old pumping
station which supplies the Kagithane treatment plant. A new pumping station
has begun to deliver water from the Alibey reservoir to Kagithane, where the
treitr.itent plant's capacity will be doubled.  At Omerli one pumping station
will c&i'.ver water fromi the reservoir to the treatment plant, and a second
will ciliver treated water to Istanbul.  The treatment plant and pumping
stations for Omerli will be developed in stages. Details of all elements
in the program are in Annex 3.
4.0)5     Major transmission systems will deliver treated water from the
Kag±tthan- and Omerli treatment plants to the population centers along the
Bosphorus and the Marmara coast.  The European and Asian systems will be
lin_d by a pipeline underneath the Bosphorus, which will supply water to
the Asian region until the Omerli source comes into use in 1975.  Thereafter
water from Omerli will flow in the reverse direction to supply the European
region.
4.06      The program includes major extensions and improvements to distri-
bute the water to consumers. Because of the geography and topography of the
region a fairly complex distribution system is required with many pumping
stations tnd storage reservoirs to serve the various pressure zones.
The Project
4.07      By 1971 work had begun on the three sources, on the transmission
system in Europe, and on strengthening the distribution system. The project



- 11 -
was therefore defined as those works in the program which can be initiated
and substantially completed by DSI and ISI in the period 1972-76. The year
1976 was selected for the termination of the project since in that year the
Omerli scheme should be substantially completed.
4.08      The project consists of:
(i) Pumps for the Terkos-Kagithane raw water pumping station;
(ii)  Doubling the capacity of the Kagithane treatment plant and
addition of a treated water reservoir there;
(iii) Transmission mains in European Istanbul and two pumping
stations;
(iv)  The Omerli scheme in Asian Istanbul, except for the dam,
i.e. raw water pumping station, treatment plant, clear
water pumping station, and mains to Istanbul and the
Marmara coast;
(v) The Bosphorus underwater pipeline;
(vi)  Extension and improvement of the distribution system
serving the region; and
(vii) Training of ISI and DSI staff.
Items (i)-(v) will be constructed by DSI, and item (vi) by ISI. A full des-
cription is given in Annex 3.
4.09      ISI's component consists mainly of installation of pipelines to
distribute treated water throughout the region. The amount of physical work
which ISI can be expected to complete through 1976 is shown below:
Length of Pipelines to be Installed (km)
Increase In   Primary               Secondary
Number of      Distribution         Distribution
Year        Connections   (300 mm & larger)   (Less than 300 mm)           Total
1972         23,000            35                  70                       105
1973         23,000            40                   95                       135
1974         21,000            45                  120                       165
1975         20,000            45                  130                       175
1976        18,000             45                  130                       175
Total 105,000            210                 545                       755



- 12 -
The table is based on the past performance of ISI, the level of activity
called ior by the UNDP/WHO master plan, and proposals made by ISI.  Some 15%
of this work would take place in municipalities adjacent to Istanbul, after
appropriate arrangements are made to enable ISI to carry out work in these
areas (para 3.11 and Annex 3).
4.10      ISI will have to carry out a network analysis for the distribution
system as a basis for designing its part of the project. Its own staff lacks
the expertise to undertake this task. ISI has agreed to engage consultants
acceptable to the Bank by the end of 1972 to carry out the network analysis
and to waAke recommendations for a detailed program of improvements. The ana-
lysis will probably require the use of a computer model and is bound to reveal
major 1lata shortages. The consultants will also assist ISI in making and main-
taining- a comprehensive and accurate set of maps of the entire system, and
will make recommendations for the installation of flow and pressure recording
devicu. to aid continuing system analysis and to improve operation. Provision
is made in the project for training ISI's staff in network analysis and for
the purct;ase and installation of metering equipment to monitor system perform-
ance. As the network analysis will take some time to complete, ISI will con-
tinue 4u the interim to construct elements of the system which have priority,
using the best available design criteria and guided by the UNDP/WHO master
plan.
4.11      The Terkos-Alibey diversion (Map 1), expected to begin operating
in mid-1972, is designed to deliver the full yield from Terkos Lake to
Istanbul. From a capacity standpoint, the existing conduits from Terkos Lake
to Kagithlane will not be required in future. There are benefits to be de-
rived from keeping this parallel system in operation, including security and
reuuc_-1 oerating costs, but a study of the economics of the situation will
be und;2rtaken before investments are made to renovate the system. The pro-
ject inicludes funds for new pumps at Terkos for these lines and for relining
the masonry gallery and pipeline. ISI and DSI have agreed to complete a study
by mid-1974 of the costs and benefits of renovating this system for review by
the Bank. No expenditures on this work would be financed from the loan unless
they =re economically justified.



-13-
Project Cost Estimated
4.12     The estimated costs of the DSI and ISI components are sumarized below.
Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 4 and the construction schedule in
Annex 5.
Local Foreign   Total    Local Foreign   Total
--::-TL Million -------   --    US; million------
Part A - DSI Component
Terkos Lake pumping stations    0.7      o.8      1.5      -        0.1      0.1
Kagithane treatment plant
and reservoir               39.5     45.5    85.0       2.8      3.3      6.1
European pumping stations       3.4      2.8      6.2      0.2      0.2      0.4
Iuropean pipelines             30.7    10.2      40.9      2.2      0.7      2.9
Omerli pumping stations        12.7    114.0    26.7       0.9      1.0      1.9
Oterli treatment plant         40.0    45.0    85.0        2.9      3.2      6.1
Asian pipelines, reservoirs
and telemetering system    130.2    63.9   194.1        9.3      4.6    13.9
Bosphorus underwater
pipeline                     8.1    13.2    21.3        0.6      0.9      1.5
Sub-total               265.3   195.4   1460.7    18.9    14.0    32.9
Land                           25.5      -       25.5      1.8      -        1.8
Project design, super-
vision and training         30.2      5.3    35.5       2.2      0.14      2.6
Physical contingencies         55.8    18.5    74.3        14.0     1.3      5.3
Price contingencies            69.7     34.3   104.0       5.0      2.4      7.4
Part A Sub-total           446.5   253.5   700.0    31.9    18.1    50.0
Part B - ISI Component
Primary & secondary
distribution pipelines     211.0    57.4   268.4    15.1         4.1    19.2
Disttibution reservoirs        11.L      1.2    12.3       0.8      0.1      0.9
Pumping & pressure reducing
stations                     6.9      3.1    10.0       0.5      0.2      0.7
1hter meters & service
connections                 50.3    23.2    73.5        3.5      1.7      5.2
Terkos-Kagithane conduit
renovations                 11.1      6.7     17.8      0.9      0.4      1.3
Operation & maintenance
equipment                    2.0      0.8      2.8      0.1      0.1      0.2
Sub-total               292.4    92.4   384.8    20.9         6.6     27.5
Project design & super-
vision                      12.5      6.6    19.1       0.9      0.5      1.4
Management consultants &
training                     1.8      0.5      2.3      0.1      -        0.1
Price contingencies            68.o    17.8    85.8        4.8      1.3      6.1
Part B Sub-total           374.7   117.3   492.0    26.7         8.4     35.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           821.2   370.8  L2.0         58.6    26.5    85.1



- 14 -
4.13      Estimates for the pumping stations and pipelines to be built by
DSI are based on preliminary designs and on DSI's recent experience of unit
prices for similar work. The estimate for the Bosphorus crossing is based
on the report of the Bank consultant (para 1.03). The contracts for the
two very large treatment plants will be based on performance specifications
and their cost estimates, based on the costs of building similar plants out-
side Turkey, are reasonable but necessarily approximate. The cost of surge-
chambers and reservoirs, for water hammer prevention and for terminal storage
along the prestressed concrete pipelines from Omerli, is based on provisional
estimates. The DSI component includes allowances for physical contingencies
of 20% for most work and 5% where bids have been received from contractors,
giving an overall allowance of 16%.
4.14      For the ISI compopent, costs are based on ISI's recent experience
of unit costs and on the amount of physical work which ISI can be expected
to complete during the project period. No allowance is made for physical
contingencies since most of the work to be carried out by ISI has not yet
been specifically identified.
4.15      The estimates are based on prices at the start of 1972.  Construction
costs have been rising rapidly in recent years in Turkey. They rose by 22%
in 1969, 18% in 1970 and 14% in 1971, according to the construction cost index
prepared by the Construction and Installation Contractors' Federation, but are
expected to increase less rapidly in future, following the 67% devaluation
of the Turkish lira in August 1970. Allowances are made for escalation of
local costs by 10% in 1972, 8% in 1973 and 6% thereafter. For imported
equipment, prices are assumed to increase at 6% per year.
4.16      In estimating the foreign exchange component it is assumed that
pumps and motors for the pumping stations, equipment for the treatment
plants, steel and rubber gaskets for prestressed concrete pipe, and pipes for
the Bosphorus crossing will be supplied by foreign firms. For the distribu-
tion system it is assumed that large water meters, specialized operating and
maintenance equipment, and ductile iron pipes, which are not made in Turkey,
will be imported, but that most contracts for domestic water meters and other
types of pipe will be awarded to local suppliers. Most civil engineering con-
tracts are expected to be won by local firms, except for the greater part of
the Omerli-Istanbul pipeline (para 4.20), the Bosphorus crossing and the re-
lining of existing pipelines.
Procurement
4.17      AU  contracts to be financed from the proposed Bank loan will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. The Government
has agreed to issue import licenses when required.
4.18      For all equipment contracts subject to international competitive
bidding, a margin of preference for local manufacturers of 15% or customs
duty, whichever is lower, is proposed. Turkey is an associate member of
the European Economic Community (EEC) and would grant EEC suppliers reduc-
tions of up to 10% of the relevant customs duty on the types of equipment



- 15 -
required for the project.  DSI is exempt from all customs duties however, and
ISI is exempt from customs duties on pipes, so the question of preferential
duties does not arise for most imports. Since ISI would pay duty on pumps
motors, valves and water meters (approximately 25%, 50% and 75% respectively)
EEC suppliers would receive preferential treatment for any such equipment not
supplied by Turkish firms. The total value of contracts on which such pre-
ference could be applied is not expected to exceed US$1.0 million equivalent.
4.19      Retroactive financing is recommended for supply contracts for pumps
and motors let by !)ST early in 1972, using procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Advance payments totalling less than US$150,000 equivalent have
been made.  No other retroactive financing is contemplated.
4.20      lJp to 25% of the project expenditures of DSI and 35% of those of
ISI will not be subject to international competitive bidding and will not
be financed by the proposed loan. For DSI the principal exceptions are:
(i) supplying and laying prestressed concrete pipes along 80%
of the 30 Kin Istanbul-Omerli pipeline. A pipe factory was
constructed for DSI in 1971 by a French firm (Societe des
Tuyaux Bonna). Under the original contract for this factory
the firm produced and installed the pipes for the Terkos-
Alibey-Kagithane transmission system. Under a negotiated
contract extension worth TL 76 million (US$5.4 million)
Bonna will continue to operate the factory and install the
pipes along most of the line from Omerli to Istanbul;
(ii) all other prestressed concrete pipes required for the proj-
ect. DST will produce these pipes at its factory. Only the
prestressing steel and rubber gaskets required for the pipes
will be obtained by international competitive bidding;
l.xpenditures by ISI which will not be subject to international competitive
bidding include:
(i) purchase of pipes and water meters already ordered by ISI
from local suppliers for use in 1972 and part of 1973;
(ii)  installation of service connections, water meters and dis-
tribution pipelines which are (lone by ISI's labor force; and
(iii)  civil engineering contracts awarded for work in 1972 but not
in accordanre witlh proceduires acceptable to the Bank.



- 16 -
Amiiount of Loan
4.21      A Bank loan of US$37.0 million equivalent is proposed for the
project.  This loan would be relent by the Government to ISI, who woulld
use the proceeds as follows:
Project       ' of Project
Loan Amount           Cost              Cost
-------US$ Million---------
DSI Component                       19.0               50.0              33
ISI Component                       13.0               35.1              37
32.0              85.1              38
Interest on Bank Loan                5.0                5.0             100
Total                          37.0              90.1               41
The estimate foreign exchange cost of the project is US$26.5 million equiv-
alent (para 4.12), but only US$20.5 million equivalent of this amount would
be eligible for disbursement, because of the exceptions to international
competitive bidding procedures explained in paragraph 4.20. The proposed
loan would therefore finance US$20.5 million equivalent of foreign exchange
costs, interest during construction of US$5.0 million, and local currency
expenditure equivalent to some US$11.5 million on contracts awarded follow-
ing international competitive bidding.
Disbursement
4.22      Disbursements for the DSI component of the project would be made
through ISI on receipt of a disbursement application initiated by DSI and
submitted by ISI. For both DSI and ISI the loan would be disbursed against:
(i) CIF costs of equipment contracts won by foreign
firms after international competitive bidding;
(ii)  the ex-factory costs of equipment contracts won
locally after international competitive bidding;
(iii)  the total costs of supplying and installing the
Bosphorus underwater pipeline and equipment for
treatment plants, following international com-
petitive bidding;
(iv) 50% of the costs of all civil engineering contracts
awarded after international competitive bidding;



- 17 -
(v)  foreign exchlange costs for consultants and staff training;
(vi) local costs for consulting services; and
(vii) interest and other charges on the loan during construction.
On completion of the project, any undisbursed amounts should be cancelled.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex 6.
Project Administration
(i) DST Component
4.23      The sole runction of the DSI regional office in Istanbul is to im-
plement the water supply program (para 3.13). The agency and its staff in
Istanbul and Ankara are competent and experienced but have not previously
designed and constructed a water supply system. In an effort to implement
the priority elements of the program as quickly as possible, DSI has
proceeded withi construction without completing all detail designs. The use
of performance specifications is helping, to overcome some of DSI's technical
deficiencies but some assistance from consulting engineers is required in the
immediate future to ensure efficient project execution. Of particular
importance is the timely completion of design of the Omerli-Istanbul pipe-
line, including, thle dletail (lesign of pumping station controls, valves and
offtakes along the pipeline and reservoirs, to prevent water hammer. DSI
has agreed to engage consultants acceptable to the Bank, before the loan
and credit are made effective, to assist with the following matters:
(a)  contract preparation, bid evaluation, construction super-
vision and performance testing of water treatment plants;
(b)  design, procurement and construction supervision of the
Bospliorus pipeline crossing and major transmission pipe-
lines.
DlST staff, working with these consultants, will receive valuable practical
training zand the agency will be strengthened accordingly.
4.24      !)SI has agreed to complete comprehensive operating manuals for
eachl element of the system to be handed over to ISI.  These manuals would
assist ISI In operatipg ind maintaining the facilities efficiently after
they are commissioned by DSI.
(ii) IST Component
4. 25   To Itprove tlhe organization of I'I and its ability to implement the
project effectively, 1T1 has agreed to appoint a project manager with respon-
sibility for ;ll aspects of project planning, design and construction by
October 1972. IST is not presently using engineering consultants, but has



- 18 -
agreed to do so, to assist with the analysis and future design of the distri-
bution system (para 4.10). The same consultants will also provide assistance
in the preparation of contracts for international competitive bidding.
(iii) Coordination Between ISI and DSI
4.26      According to a protocol under Law 1053, DSI and ISI are supposed
to meet at least three times annually to coordinate their activities and
prepare annual work schedules. In practice such meetings have not taken
place and the coordination between the agencies has not been effective.
This situation is expected to be improved by the appointment of the project
manager by ISI (para 4.25), who would submit to the Bank in September of
each year during the project period the proposed future work program of ISI
and DSI for review and comment prior to implementation. The project manager
would also be responsible for providing the Bank with bid analyses and award
recommendations for contracts eligible for disbursements from the proposed
loan.
(iv) Operation and Maintenance of Dams
4.27      DSI will operate and maintain the Alibey and Omerli dams and will
retain partial ownership of them (11% and 10% respectively), because they
will be used to control floods as well as to supply water. The agency has
considerable experience with dams in Turkey and is competent to undertake
these responsibiltiies. DSI has agreed to consult with ISI before preparing
operating rules for each reservoir and to conduct a thorough inspection of
each dam at least once every three years.
Environmental Aspects
4.28      The project is expected to eliminate the major water shortages
which have plagued Istanbul in past years. Unsafe and unpalatable sources
(such as local wells) will be abandoned, thus lowering the incidence of
waterborne diseases in the region. With adequate supplies of water avail-
able more will be available for public and domestic cleansing.
4.29      With the provision of piped water throughout the Istanbul urban
region, there will be an opportunity to develop a comprehensive svstem for
the disposal of waterborne wastes, without which insanitary practices would
persist. The UNDP/WHO master plan indicates the technical solution to this
problem, but development of a satisfactory wastewater system for Istanbul
has been retarded because of serious institutional and financial constraints
(para 2.10). The Bank has already indicated its willingness to assist in
preparing a wastewater project for a possible future lending operation. In
connection with the urban development project (para 1.01) the Government
has agreed to create a wastewater authority before 1977 to serve the Istanbul
region and, after consultation with the Bank Group, to make specific proposals
in this regard by the end of 1972. Prior to the creation of this regional
authority the Government will make interim arrangements to prepare a waste-
water project with the assistance of consultants financed under the proposed
IDA credit (para 1.01).



- 19 -
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
5.01      Demand for water in the Istanbul urban area greatly exceeds sup-
ply. Physical rationing prevails generally. Benause the pipes are not con-
tinuosly undler pressure. the water cannot be considered safe.  Waterborne
diseases such as typhoid and paratyphoid have a highinTcidence in the area,
and contaminated water was identified as the cause of a cholera epidemic
responsible for 52 deaths in 1970. Fire-fighting is frustrated by intermit-
tent supplies of water in the pipes. The deficiencies of the municipal sys-
temn force consumers to incur sizeable costs for roof tanks and similar arrange-
ments  tnd for buying water from vendors.  There is almost a complete moratorium
on new connections for industrial purposes, thus retarding industrial develop-
-*ent.  Both the municipal and national authorities see the alleviation of
l                      _ISne_uVs4Ajate,,                        W  ab so u tel
vit.n to  ue .u uiTre developrient of this most important urban region o   urkey.
5.02      Projections of population and water demand for Istanbul Municipali-
ty and ror the urban area are given in Annex 7.  The high rate of population
;rowthtl of tlte recent past (5.5%.) is expected to fall gradually, and for the
perio(I 197l/1,q  an averag,e _;rowth rate of about 4% per year is projected for
the reg,ion.  WJater demand will grow more rapidly than population; a long-term
average slighltly higher than 6% per year for the whole area is projected.
Also given in Annex 7 are estimated sales by ISI.  Eliminating shortages and
extendin,g the area supplied are expected to lead to quite dramatic increases
in sales, which are expected to double from 1971 to 1976 and triple by 1979.
5'. 13   TMe project is an integral part of a comprehensive investment pro-
,ram For the period 1966-84.  The water production and transmission facili-
ties inclu(led in the project have been selected from various alternatives
consideredl in the [xistcr plan as the least-cost solution to meeting the de-
imand Forecast for the region.  The program for the expansion of the distribu-
tion system will follow conservative design criteria based on a network
analysis to select least cost alternatives.
5.04      Thc measurable benefits from the 1966-84 program, which will come
Crom th1e sale of more and safer water and from cost savings to consumers when
existing, arrangements to augment the water supply are obviated, provide an in-
ternal econouic rate of return of at least 10.6%. Disregarding sunk costs and
benefits already reaped, the rate of return on the 1972-84 program is at least
14;%. Reasonable changes in key assumptions for the calculations change the re-
sults only marginally. Details are given in Annex 8.
5.05      The program will bring further benefits which cannot be measured by
thie revenues from water sales, such as improvements in public health and the
increased capability of fighting fires and reducing fire losses. These bene-
Fits are dlifficult to measure and hlave not been included in the calculations.



- 20 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.01      ISI has been a consistently profitable organization and is at pres-
ent virtually free from debt. Its main financial problem has been its inabil-
ity to generate or borrow sufficient capital to expand the system to meet thle
rapidly growing demand. Expenditures which have been made, mainly on treatment
and distribution facilities, have been from current revenue, except for the
Emlak Bank loan (para 6.02). As a consequence of the major investment pro-
gram now underway, tariff increases will be necessary starting in 1974 to com-
ply with reasonable financial objectives (para 6.16).
Past Record and Present Position of ISI
6.02      The original capital of ISI for the acquisition of the existing
water supply systems was provided by the Government of Turkey. This money
has been repaid by ISI.  In 1951 ISI received a loan of TL 29 million from
the Government-controlled Emlak Bank for the construction of the second
Elmali Dam. No payments of interest or principal were made and under the
Budget Law of 1970, when the loan and accumulated interest stood at TL 44.2
million, the Government assumed the obligation for repayment.
6.03      By Law 1053, a maximum sum of TL 540 million was allowed to DSI
for the Istanbul water program, of which TL 190 million was to be allocated
to ISI for the distribution system (Annex 1). By the end of 1971 ISI had
received only TL 21.5 million from DSI. ISI also has a contingent liability
of TL 260 million for work undertaken by DSI. These are ISI's only long-term
obligations.
6.04      The actual and projected income statements, cash flow statements,
and balance sheets for 1968-80 are shown in Annexes 13 through 15. ISI has
an excellent profit record. The rate of return on net fixed assets was 18%
in 1968. It has since fallen, however to 9.3% in 1971 due to rapidly rising
costs. In 1971 sales volume increased by 5% but operating costs increased by
41%: wages and salaries increased by 60% and the price of electricity by 50%.
(i) Tariffs
6.05      ISI has endeavored to increase its internal cash generation by
increasing water rates, but this policy has been frustrated to some extent
by changes and delays caused by the Istanbul Municipality before giving ap-
proval. Two rate increases have been implemented since 1968, the last on
January 1, 1971. The present water rate is a uniform rate 1/ of TL 1.73
per m3 (US$0.47 per 1,000 gallons) which is equivalent to a weighted average
1/   Except for the Princes' Islands, where water is delivered by tankers
and sold to consumers at TL 4.00 per m3 (US$1.08 per 1,000 gallons).



- 21 -
increase of 25% on the 1970 rates. 1/ Under Law 1053 ISI is authorized to
change rates subject only to the approval of the Ministry of Energy iid
Natural Resources. The Government has agreed to permit ISI to implement
rate changes within three months of ISI's submission of a proposed rate
change. Future rates are discussed in paragraph 6.16.
(ii) Billing and Collection of Accounts
6.06      All connections of ISI, including public hydrants, are metered.
Significant improvements have recently been made in the billing and collec-
tion procedures, which are now quite good.  Bad debts written off in 1971
represent less than 0.05% of billings.  The accounts receivable at the end
of 1971, which date back to 1961, represent over nine months' revenues, due
to poor collections in the past and difficulties in collecting from local
and central government agencies (para 6.07).
6.07      The financial relationship between ISI and Istanbul Municipality
is unsatisfactory. The Municipality's annual water bill, two-thirds of
which is for water supplied to public hydrants, is approximately TL 9 mil-
lion (US$0.6 million) and was equal to about 7% of ISI's revenue in 1971.
No cash has been received from the Municipality within the last six years,
but ISI received a credit of TL 10 million (US$0.7 million) by an offset-
ting arrangement between ISI, IETT (Istanbul Electricity, Tunnel and Trans-
port Company) and the Municipality. (Under this arrangement, which no
longer operates, ISI did not pay its electricity account to IETT but cred-
ited this amount to the Municipality's water account. The Municipality in
turn credited the same amount to IETT's account to offset money due from
IETT.) As the Municipality is the largest customer of ISI, it is important
that their account be put on a satisfactory basis. However, the financial
position of the Municipality is very poor and there is little prospect of
immediate improvement. The Government has indicated that it will make ar-
rangements to resolve this problem.
(iii) Audit
6.08      ISI's accounts are nominally audited by two auditors appointed by
the Istanbul M1unicipal Council. These auditors, who are not qualified ac-
countants, perform an audit on the legality of management decisions rather
than on the accounts. Agreement has been reached that an annual audit will
be made of the accounts of ISI by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that
ISI send the auditor's report to the Bank no later than four months after
the end of the fiscal year.
1/   The 1970 water rates were TL 0.93 per m3 for customers with consumption
under 30 m3 per quarter and TL 1.53 per m3 for consumption over 30 m3
per quarter.



- 22 -
Financing Plan 1972-76
6.09      The actual and projected cash flow statements of DSI and ISI are
shown in Annexes 11 and 14. The total financing plan for the water supply
programs of both ISI and DSI during the period 1972-76 1/ is outlined below.
The capital requirements of DSI and ISI will total TL 1,638.0 million
(US$117.0 million), of which 80% will be financed from borrowing (including
32% from the proposed Bank loan), 3% from capital contributions 2/ and 17%
from internal cash generation.
TL         US$
Million      Million       %
Capital Sources
Proposed Bank Loan 3/                   518.0         37.0       32
Government Loan                         787.1         56.2       48
Total Borrowings                  1,305.1          93.2      80
Capital Contributions                    48.7          3.5        3
Internal Cash Generation                284.2         20.3       17
Total Sources                     1,638.0         117.0     100
Capital Requirements
ISI:  Capital Works - Project             492.0         35.1       30
Capital Works - Other Program        19.0          1.4        1
DSI:  Capital Works - Project             700.0         50.0       43
Capital Works - Other Program    213.0            15.2      13
Total Program 1972/76             1,424.0         101.7      87
Interest capitalized  3/                   70.0          5.0        4
Total Program Including
Interest                        1,494.0        106.7       91
Addition to net working capital           144.0         10.3        9
Total Requirements                1,638.0         117.0     100
1/   DSI fiscal period 1st March 1972 - 28th February 1977.
2/   From customer's connection charges and a municipal tax.
3/   Includes interest on Bank Group funds of TL 16.8 million (US$1.2 mil-
lion) which will be received and capitalized by ISI in 1977.



- 23 -
6.10      The terms agreed for relending the proposed loan from the
Government to ISI are for repayment over 25 years, including 5 years'
grace, with interest at 7-1/4%.
6.11      The proposed loan includes TL 266 million (US$19.0 million) for
work to be undertaken by DSI during the project period. ISI will make
these funds available to DSI for this work as required (para 3.01). The
Bank Group will finance 29% of DSI's expenditure during the project period.
The balance of DSI's requirements will be provided by the Government.
6.12      Funding for the program, presently provided by Government advances
to DSI under Law 1053, is limited to TL 540 million (US$38.6 million) for
total expenditure. By February 1971 DSI had spent TL 305 million (US$21.8
million) and the joint program expenditures from 1972 through 1976 are ex-
pected to total TL 1,424 million (US$101.7 million). The Government has
agreed to make available all funds necessary to complete the project and
the Alibey and Omerli dams, including any cost overruns.
6.13      A rational policy for making Government funds available for water
supply development would be to lend such funds to the local utility at rea-
sonable interest rates. At present the Government's policy is to provide
interest-free funds and this is established in Law 1053. As the rate of
return covenant (para 6.15) will ensure that water charges are adequate, the
Government's policy on interest rates will not vitally affect the financial
arrangements for the project. A 20-year repayment period commencing on
July 1, 1977 has been assumed for the Government advatnces.
Future Finances of ISI
6.14      After the facilities built by DSI are commissioned, all costs in-
curred by DSI will be transferred to ISI except the costs of the following:
(a) 10% of the Omerli Dam and 11% of the Alibey Dam, since they
provide flood control benefits;
(b) the prestressed concrete pipe factory at Tuzla;
(c) Sagmalcilar Water Supply; 1/ and
(d) DSI's training costs.
The estimated costs involved total TL 93.5 million (US$6.7 million) and are
detailed in Annex 11. Agreement has been reached that all liabilities which
DSI proposes to transfer to ISI, representing the costs of all facilities'
built by DSI for IST, will be certified as equitable by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
1/   A small groundwater system constructed by DSI for a municipality outside
Istanbul.



- 24 -
6.15      The present water shortages in Istanbul are due mainly to the in-
ability of ISI to generate or borrow sufficient funds to finance this neces-
sary system expansion.  ISI's only practical source for borrowing in Turkey
is the Central Government, but the funds at present allocated from this
source under Law 1053 (para 6.03) are insufficient to meet requirements for
the immediate future. Present plans require substantial investment in water
supply over the next twenty years to meet projected demands in the Istanbul
region. To ensure that this development is not again interrupted by lack of
finance, it is essential that ISI generate a substantial proportion of future
capital requirements from its own operations. Agreement has been reached
with the Government and ISI that tariffs be fixed so as to yield a rate of
return of 7% for 1974 through 1976 and 8% thereafter. The numerator of the
rate of return calculation would be gross revenue less operating expenses
and depreciation, calculated by the straight line method. The denominator
would be average net fixed assets in service. To ensure that the rate
covenant continues to provide an adequate contribution for future capital
expansion in real terms, agreement has been reached that ISI will revalue
fixed assets periodically commencing in January 1978 (after completion of
the project) in accordance with principles satisfactory to the Bank which
will be established by ISI and the Government before the end of 1974.
6.16      Tariff increases will be required during the construction period,
according to the forecasts, to meet the rate of return covenant on a growing
asset base (Annex 16). It has been agreed that the next rate adjustment,
presently projected at 30%, will take place in 1974, by which time the stan-
dard of service in Asian and European Istanbul should be considerably improved.
6.17      ISI's debt service is covered at least twice by internal cash
generation through the period 1972-80. Agreement has been reached requir-
ing Bank approval of any future borrowing which would increase debt service
to a level not covered at least 1.5 times by net revenue before depreciation
and interest.
6.18      As 80% of the costs of the 1972-76 program are financed by borrow-
ing, the debt: equity ratio will increase from 6:94 in 1971 to 71:29 in 1977.
In the four years 1977-80 the capital requirements are projected at about
Th 1,300 million (US$93 million), about 70% of which is projected to be fi-
nanced by internal cash generation, as compared with 17% of the 1972-76 pro-
gram.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations with Government, DSI,and ISI,agreement was
reached inter alia on the following:
(a) relending arrangements to ISI for the loan (para 6.10);
(b) use of international competitive bidding procedures by
DSI and ISI and issuance of import licenses (para 4.17);



- 25 -
(c) provision of Government funds adequate to complete the
project (para 6.12);
(d) procedures for setting water rates, rate of return cov-
enant, and next rate adjustment in 1974 (paras 6.05,
6.15 and 6.16);
(e) debt service covenant (para 6.17);
(f) audit of ISI accounts and certification by auditors of
the transfer of liabilities from DSI to ISI (paras 6.08
and 6.14);
(g) establishment of a water supply authority during the
project period to serve the metropolitan area, with
specific proposals to be furnished to the Bank by the
end of 1972 (para 3.10);
(h) conclusion of contracts by ISI to wholesale water to
outside communities with a prototype contract furnished
to the Bank for review and comment (para 3.11);
(i) creation of a regional wastewater authority during the
project period with specific proposals to be prepared
by the end of 1972, and preparation of a wastewater proj-
ect with the assistance of consultants (para 4.29);
(j) designation of a project manager by ISI (para 4.25);
(k) improving the organization of ISI with the assistance of
management consultants (para 3.05);
(1) improvements in accounting procedures of ISI with the as-
sistance of accounting consultants (para 3.06);
(m) improved coordination between ISI and DSI (para 4.26);
(n) engagement of engineering consultants by ISI and DSI
(paras 4.10, 4.23 and 4.25);
(o) completion of comprehensive operating manuals by DSI
(para 4.24);
(p) future operation and maintenance of dams by DSI (para
4.27); and
(q) completion of a study of the economics of renovating
the Terkos-Kagithane system (para 4.11).



- 26 -
7.02      The loan would not be made effective until DSI has engaged en-
gineering consultants (para 4.23).
7.03      With these undertakings, the project forms a suitable basis for
a loan of US$37.0 million equivalent for a period of 25 years, including a
five year grace period.
June 14, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8 Pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Supply Sector in the Istanbul Urban Region
A.   ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR IN TURKEY
1.        The basic responsibility for supplying water to people in Turkey
rests with local authorities. The Government, however, realizes that the
local authorities, almost without exception, require technical and financial
assistance, which it provides through agencies attached to three different
ministeries, each of which is discussed below.
State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
2.        Devlet Su Isleri (DSI), or the General Directorate of State
Hydraulic Works, is attached to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.
DSI was established in 1953 by Law 6200. Its fundamental role is to coor-
dinate all exploitation of water resources in Turkey and it is the most
important government agency in that field. In addition to assisting with
water supply, DSI designs and constructs works for flood control, irrigation,
drainage, and hydroelectric power production. Expenditures for DSI in 1971
totalled TL 2,109 million (US$151 million) of which 8% was for water supply
projects.
3.        DSI is a relatively complex organization.  Under a Director General
there are five deputy and assistant director generals, several advisors, nine
operating departments and eighteen regional offices. The operating depart-
ments provide the planning, design, tendering and general expertise while the
regional offices direct and supervise the implementation of projects. A staff
of 16,900 is employed, including 1,190 engineers. The Directorate is a com-
petent organization which has acted satisfactorily as executing agency on a
number of Bank-assisted irrigation projects. However, as in other engineering-
oriented organizations, the economic evaluation of its work program appears
to receive relatively little attention.
4.        According to Law No. 1053 of 1968 DSI is specifically empowered to
assist municipalities with populations of more than 100,000 in the design
and construction of water supply facilities. This law applies to 24 commu-
nities but apparently active assistance to Istanbul and Ankara was particu-
larly sought when it was passed. At the present time DSI is only carrying
out water supply projects in these two cities, the largest in Turkey, and
Gaziantep. Law 1053 is reproduced on the page 7 of this annex.
5.        DSI is expected to hand over the water supply facilities it con-
structs to the municipalities for operation and maintenance. The municipali-
ties are expected to repay to DSI all costs incurred on their behalf. DSI



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8 pages
thus acts as a consulting engineer and contractor for the municipalities, ex-
cept that it dominates them rather than treating them as clients.
Bank of the Provinces
6.        The Bank of the Provinces (Iller Bankasi) is an agency of the Min-
istry of Reconstruction and Resettlement. The three functions of this agency
can be outlined as follows:
1.   It is a development bank for public works projects
such as water supply, sewerage and electrification.
2.   It provides technical assistance to local authorities
in planning and design.
3.   It carries out construction.
7.        The Bank of the Provinces is intended to serve municipalities with
populations of between 2,000 and 100,000, of which Turkey had 669 at the end
of 1970. The agency is also involved at present in water supply projects
for ten municipalities with populations greater than 100,000.
8.        Limitations of staff and money prevent the Bank of the Provinces
from giving the required assistance that this large number of communities re-
quires. About two thirds of its total staff of 2,300 (including 500 profes-
sionals) are in the Ankara headquarters, the remainder in the 15 regional of-
fices. Of its 1971 investments totalling TL 445 million (US$31.8 million)
some TL 191 million (US$13.6 million) or 43% was spent on water supply. In
1972 TL 220 million (US$15.7 million) is planned to be spent for a total of
241 water supply projects.
9.        Funds are made available to municipalities by the Bank of the Prov-
inces on three types of terms:
(a) Credits, at 5% interest with repayment periods from
5 to 20 years.
(b) Soft loans from the Municipality Fund, administered
by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement for
populations less tian 50,00. Interest free and re-
payable over 20 years.
(c) Budgetary allocations ro provide financing for specific
projects of poor municipalities. Grants not intended
to be repaid.
10.       The financial position of most municipalities is exceedingly weak,
and the Government has not been insisting on the repayments due to the Bank
of Provinces. Each year recently the Government's budget has included an
allocation equal to the amount the municipalities owed to the bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8 pages
11.       Like DSI, the Bank of the Provinces' role in assisting local commu-
nities is intended to be temporary. Operating and maintenance responsibilities
are handed over to the municipalities after the schemes have been constructed.
General Directorate for Roads, Water and Electricity (YSE)
12.       The Ministry of Village Affairs was established in 1964 to provide
public works for villages with populations of less than 2,000. Previously
such activities had been assisted by the Ministry of Public Works. The new
ministry has four directorates, of which YSE is the one concerned with water
supply, roads and electricity.
13.       The projects for which YSE provides help are naturally snall:
wells, springs and small pipelines. Water from such schemes is generally
delivered through public hydrants and the people are not expected to pay
for it. Villages are expected to give free labor when projects are con-
structed and, if the village treasury can afford it, a financial contribution
also. On the national scale, YSE is an important agency for financing water
projects.
14.       YSE operates through 14 regional offices.  In each provincial head-
quarters a YSE office is established to coordinate with the Provincial
Governor and help implement projects. Coordination with the Bank of the Prov-
inces to develop water supply schemes which serve a number of villages and
municipalities is also reported to be good.
Other Ministries
15.       The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance approves all new water
supply facilities to ensure that they meet established health standards.
16.       The Ministry of the Interior, which is the parent ministry of all
local government in Turkey, has considerable indirect impact on water supply
since it must approve the budgets of all the local authorities and since the
Governors of the various provinces report to the Ministry of Interior. The
Governors have considerable influence on development plans in their province.
According to Law 1580, the Governors also review and approve water rates pro-
posed by the municipalities.
17.       The Ministry of Finance controls all Government spending and there-
fore is a significant influence on water supply. The Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of Industry and Technology are involved in procurement for
water supply projects, particularly the importation of equipment from abroad.
B.   WATER SUPPLY AGENCIES IN THE ISTANBUL REGION
Istanbul Water Administration (ISI)
18.       ISI, or the Istanbul Water Administration, took over the facilities
of the Terkos Water Company in European Istanbul in 1933 and those of the



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8 pages
private water company serving Asian Istanbul in 1937. ISI is a semi-autonomous
agency of the Istanbul Municipality, and from 1937 ISI has been responsible
for most aspects of public water supply in Istanbul Municipality.
19.       All water provided by ISI is sold on a metered basis.  At the end
of 1971 there were about 240,000 connections in the system, including 1,786
public hydrants. Although private connections are billed directly by ISI,
people using the public hydrants (generally in the very low income areas) do
not pay for their water. Istanbul Municipality is billed for water supplied
to the public through hydrants.
20.       ISI is officially responsible for water supplies only within
Istanbul Municipality but it also supplies some water to two adjacent muni-
cipalities, Kagithane and Alibeykoy, through which pipelines delivering water
to Istanbul pass. Many of ISI's historic sources, the Kagithane treatment
plant and the Alibey dam are also located in these municipalities. ISI bills
private consumers directly in these areas and bills the municipalities for
water supplied through public hydrants.
21.       The organization of ISI is described in Annex 9 and its financial
position is outlined in Annexes 12, 13, 14 and 15. A description of the
present facilities of ISI follows in Annex 2.
DSI
22.       Law 1053 (paragraph 4 of this annex) is specific in the case of
Istanbul and is supported by a protocol signed in 1969 between DSI, ISI arid
Istanbul Municipality. According to the law, DSI is to be responsible for
building "dams, transmission mains and treatment plants", with the "reservoirs
and distribution systems" to be built by ISI.
23.       DSI established a special regional office - Istanbul Region XIV -
to deal exclusively with the Istanbul program. The organization chart for
this regional office appears on page 8 of this annex. Under the Regional
Director there are two Deputy Regional Directors and fourteen department
heads. The Regional Director is an experienced engineer, heading a staff
of 300, 40 of whom are professional. The performance of the regional of-
fice to date has been satisfactory. Through February 1972 DSI has spent
TL 305 million (US$21.8 million) on the Istanbul water supply program
(Annex 10).
24.       DSI is responsible for coordinating the work of other agencies
involved in the water supply program for Istanbul. The dams at Alibey and
Omerli also serve for flood control, and DSI intends to retain responsibility
for their future operation, but all other works will be handed on to ISI on
completion.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8 pages
Bank of the Provinces and YSE
25.       According to the 1970 census, the population of Istanbul Municipality
was 2.1 million. The urban population in the Istanbul region included 650,000
people who lived outside the Municipality but who expect to be served by the
water sources now being developed. Each municipality outside Istanbul is
responsible for its own water system, but in two cases a number of municipa-
lities joined together to form a "union of municipalities" for the purpose
of operating a regional water system. These systems also take in a number
of adjacent villages.
26.       The Kartal Union presently consists of nine municipalities 1/ and
ten villages along the Marmara coast from Darica to Kucukyali (Map 2). The
Mahmutbey Union on the European side includes four municipalities 2/ and ten
villages east of Kucekmece Lake and North of Istanbul Municipality. The Bank
of the Provinces and YSE provided financial and technical assistance for both
unions to construct water systems utilizing well water. Once the schemes
were built they were handed over to the union to operate. Each union sells
water to the individual communities on a wholesale basis. The municipalities
and villages operate small distribution systems and are supposed to collect
enough money from their customers to meet the water rates charged by the
union. (Existing water supply facilities are discussed in Annex 2).
27.       Individual municipalities can also turn to the Bank of the Provinces
for financial assistance. Most in the Istanbul region have done so. DSI es-
timates that the value of financial assistance provided by the Bank of the
Provinces to municipalities in the region through 1971 totals some TL 96 mil-
lion (US$6.9 million).
28.       The population of the Istanbul urban region includes only a small
percentage (probably less than 5%) who live in villages with less than 2,000
people. Accordingly the role of YSE in the region has not been great. As
noted in paragraph 14, however, coordination between YSE and the Bank of the
Provinces appears to have been effective.
Regional Water Supply Authority
29.       The consultants (DAMOC) for the WHO/UNDP project first designed a
water supply system intended to meet the requirements of the entire Istanbul
urban region. They then considered how such a regional system could be
effectively implemented. It was apparent that the existence of many local
water supply authorities, the largest being ISI, would seriously impede the
development of the regional system. After analyzing the existing institu-
tional and administrative arrangements, DAMOC recommended that a new regional
water supply agency, IBSI (Istanbul Bolgesi Sular Idaresi, or Istanbul Regional
Water Administration) should be created to operate the enlarged system. 1/
IBSI would have been an expanded version of ISI, with a seven-man board
representing outside municipalities as well as Istanbul, supplying water
1/   Kucukyali, Maltepe, Kartal, Pendik, Yakacik, Tuzla, Darica, Dolayoba
and Soganli.
2/   Gungoren, Safrakoy, Kocasinan and Esenler.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8 pages
either wholesale to local systems outside Istanbul or taking over entire
systems.
30.       DAMOC also recommended the establishment of a special committee,
BISK (Buyuk Istanbul Sular Komitesi, or Greater Istanbul Water Committee), a
policy making body, dominated by DSI but representing the interests of
smaller communities through board members from the Bank of the Provinces,
YSE, IBSI and the Governor of Istanbul Province. In this proposed arrange-
ment IBSI would have been the operating agency.
31.       The Government, DSI and ISI did not accept DAMOC's recommendations
for a two tier organizational structure, at the present time, with a policy
making body overseeing an operating body. The Government has not made a
definite proposal stating how the regional water authority should eventually
be organized but has agreed to complete proposals in this regard by the end
of 1972. Possible alternatives include:
(a) Expansion of ISI to operate all water supply facilities
in the Istanbul region;
(b) Creation of a Provincial Water Authority;
(c) Municipalities to associate voluntarily to create a
regional authority to be responsible for water supply
and other services;
(d)  To maintain the present system, except that ISI would
sell water on a wholesale basis to water supply author-
ities in the region.
32.       The Government has agreed to create a regional water authority
before the end of 1976. In the meantime arrangement will be made for ISI
to sell water on a wholesale basis to municipalities outside Istanbul.
1/   DAMOC also considered, and rejected, a combined water supply and sewer-
age agency for the region.



ADIEX i
Page 7 of 8
L A W   1 0 5 3
CONCERNING DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL
WATER SUPPLY TO ANKARA-ISTANBUL AND TO
OTHER CITIES WITH OVER 100,000 POPULATION
(Passed July 3,1968)
Article 1
The DSI General Directorate hereby is authorized to conclude contracts for the coming years, for domestic and industrial water
supply to the cities of Ankara and Istanbul, within the limits of article No. 37 of Law No. 6200.   The total amount of contracts may
not exceed TL 350,000,000 for the city of Ankara and TL 540,000,000 for the city of Istanbul.
Article 2
Dams, transmission mains and treatment plants shall be constructed by the DSI.   Reservoirs and distribution systems shall be
constructed by the Municipalities.
Article 3
FDr the portion of the work to be undertaken by the Municipalities of Ankara and Istanbul as stated in Article 2, financial
assistance in an amount not exceeding TL 170,000,000 for Ankara and TL 190,000,000 for Istanbul, shall be provided to these Municipalities
through an allocatin from the annual budget of the DSI.
Article 4
The relevant municipalities shall be indebted to the DSI General Directorate for the total sum of expenditures to be incurred
by the DSI and the financial assistance given according to Article No. 3.   However, in the case of the following multiple purpose dams,
the indebtedness of the relevant Municipalities cannot exceed the percentiges of original cost indicated below:
ANKARA
Cubuk II Dam                                       85% of the cost of dam
Kayas - Bayindir Dam                               57.5% of the cost of dam
Kurbogaci Dam                                      90% of the cost of dam
ISTANBUL
Alibey Dam                                         89% of the cost of dam
Cmerli Dam                                         90% of the cost of damo
Conditions of indebtedness umount and duration of installments and other conditions for the execution and the operation of the wDrk shall
be established be protocols to be drawn up between the DSI and the relevant Interior Municipalities with the approval of the Ministry
of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance.   The DSI General Directorate shall cease the aid in cash, if the works be done by the
Municipalities as mentioned in Article No. 2 (i.e. reservoirs and distribution systems) are not carried out in accordance with the protocols.
Duration of repayment is 30 years;  beginning with the date on which the facility enters service.   Payments made by the Municipalities
according to the provisions of this protocol shall be entered as revenues to the DSI budget.
Article 5
Pipelines and treatment plants installed by the DSI General Directorate shall be transferred with a protocol to the relevant
Municipalities;  and shalt be operated by these Municipalities.   The Municipalities share the ownership of the dams in proportion with
their contribution.   The DSI General Directorate shall be concerned with the operation of the dams.   The releva-t Municipalities shall
participate in tne operation expenses according to tie ratios mentioned in Article G0. 4.
Article 6
Cost of Cubuk II, Kurbogazi and Kayis - Bayindir dams under conttruction or already built near Ankara at -he time this .aw is
put into rorce, shall be paid by the Municipality of Ankara according to the provisions of Article IDo. 4.
Article 7
No interest may be charged for funds allocated from  he budget.   Interest and other charges for loans to be obtained from other
sources shall be added to the indebtedness Df the Municipalitieo and collected from them.   Prom the revenues to be collected by the
Municipalities based .. a water rate sufficient to repay -heir indebtedness, a sun will be set aside for depreciation and -will be depoeited
in a special fund.
Article 8
This fund -ill be used only to retire the debts of the Municipalities to DSI.   The water rate schedule  for these cities must
be approved by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources before they can be put into effect.
Article 9
Articles Nos. 71 and 72 of the Municipality Law No. 1580, and clauses of some other Laws con.trary to this Las shall not be applied
in matters relevant to this L.w.
Article 10
The DSI General Directorate connected to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has the authority fDr concluding contracts
to obtain domestic and industrial water supply for cities with population over 100,00C upDn the approval of the Council of Ministers and
provided that the budget provisions are convenient.   The contract shall be concluded within tne limits of Article No. 37 of Law No. 620O.
BRt first and third paragraphs of Article No. 4 and provisions Df Articles Nos. 1, 3 and 6 shall not be applied in -his case.   The
DSI shall provide financial assistance to the Municipalities by an amount appropriated a            lnosily from its budget for the work in Article
No. 2.   This assistance shall be suspended if the Municipality involved fails to do the work specified in -he protocols.   The
Mmnicipality shall owe the DSI the entire cost of the work to be done by the DSI and the financial assis-ance they (the Municipalities)
receive.
Article 11
This law stall be put into effect on the date of its publicatios.
Article 12
Thi law shall be executed by the Ministries of the Interior, Finance, and Energy and Natoral Resources.
NDlTE: Publisted in T.O. hesmi Gazete (Turkish Republic Official Gazette) July 11, 1968.
April 15, 1972






STATE HYDRAULIC WORKS (DSI) REGION XIV
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF
ENERGY AND                                                                                                  MINISTRY OF FINANCE
NATURAL RESOURCES
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DSI
REGIONAL DIRECR                             CONSLTANTS
REGION XIV
D_ EPUTYREGIONAl                               IRRYEIOA
FA.MINI~~~~TR-TIVE ~~~~ECTI  F  IEG-L ~~~~ECTI.N                                                _ON~~DSIGNCT AND                  EGIMN  N                        ACCOUTN
El                                                                             ~ ~~~~~~            ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECTION  1LYETN
|  IDANN N D wiS ON  l  l  uES IGN Illl I.N  |  \                            |       CONSTRUCTlIN                 TMCHANICAL -ELECTRICAL                EXPROPRIAION DIVISION
PLNIGDVSOFEINDVSO                                                                                                              DIVISION                           DVSION
F TERKOS FIELD OFFICE                   ALIREYFILD OFFICE                         OMERLIELO OFFICE                            T        FIE   FFIE 
World Fank-672XIRI






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6 Pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Facilities in the Istanbul Urban Region
A.   ISTANBUL WATER ADMINISTRATION (ISI)
Background
1.        Istanbul, Turkey's most important city, was founded in about 650
B.C. The history of its water supply is naturally as long as the history of
the city itself. Aqueducts were built by the Romans to deliver water to the
city from springs near Halkali village (12 km west of the historic peninsula)
and from the Belgrade Forest (14 km north of the Golden Horn).
2.        The "Vakif Sular", the pious water foundation which came into ex-
istence after the conquest of Constantinople by Sultan Mehmet in 1453 A.D.,
was responsible for the reconstruction and expansion of the city's water sup-
ply until about the end of the 19th century. Vakif sources, originally
groundwater, provided water for the public fountains. Seven masonry dams
were constructed in the Belgrade Forest between 1620 and 1838 to augment the
supply to these fountains. These dams are small and some have since been re-
built. Water from these dams is treated by ISI and accounts for about 12,000
m3/day, or less than 5% of the water produced by ISI. Groundwater from Vakif
sources totals about 6,000 m3/day.
3.        The principal features of ISI's installations can be seen on Map 1
and Map 2. The Bosphorus divides Istanbul into European and Asian sections.
The water supply systems on the two sides are not connected. Each system is
described separately below. ISI also provides water to water supply systems
on two of the Princes' Islands. Statistics relating to the ISI operations
in 1971 follow in the table on page 6 of this annex.
European System
4.        In 1971, ISI utilized water from various European sources as fol-
lows:



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6 Pages
Annual Production
Source                          (Million m3)                 % of Total
Terkos Lake                                    61.4                        70.8
Groundwater                                    12.0                        13.8
Alibey Reservoir                                8.0                         9.2
Belgrade Forest Reservoirs                      5.4                         6.2
86.8                       100.0
5.        Terkos Lake, about 40 km northwest of the Golden Horn, was enlarged
near the end of the 19th century by closing the outlet of the Istranca River
to the Black Sea. The lake has a drainage area of 619 sq km and an estimated
annual inflow of 195 million m3. (Additional information on this source is
found in Tables 1 and 3 at the end of Annex 3.) Its present yield has been
restricted by the capacity of the old Terkos Pumping Station and the conduits
from Terkos to the Kagithane Treatment Plant.
6.        About one third of the water from Terkos is pumped through 3 km of
cast iron pipes into a masonry gallery, the original conduit, through which
water flows to Kagithane by gravity. The remaining two thirds are pumped to
Kagithane through a cast iron pipeline 1 m in diameter, constructed in 1951.
A booster pumping station was installed on this pipeline at Kemerburgaz in
1959. Both conduits leak badly (losing from 4% to 10% of the water pumped at
Terkos) but it has not been possible to take them out of service for repairs.
Renovations of these conduits are included in the project (Annex 3).
7.        The Kagithane treatment plant receives some water from the Belgrade
Forest reservoirs (via the gallery from Terlkos) and the partially completed
Alibey dam (Annex 3) but the greater part of its inflow comes from Terkos Lake.
The original treatment plant uses slow sand filtration and has a capacity of
65,000 m 3 per day. A rapid sand filtration plant was constructed adjacent to
the old plant in three stages.  Two upflow clarifiers and 17 filters were com-
pleted in 1960. Two more clarifiers and 8 additional filters were finished in
1964.  Late in 319g1 a fifth clarifier was completed.  At the design filtration
rate of 5.96 m /m /hour, the 25 rapid sand filters (each with an area of 56
m2) could produce 200,000 m3/day.  ISI engineers believe that this plant can
produce up to 300,000 m3/day during summer peak periods (for relatively high
filtration rates of up to 9.3 m3/mn /hour with 24 filters in operation).  In
conjunction with the slow sand filtration plant this would result in the
treatment of a total of 365,000 m3/day.
8.        Two small treatment plants, Gaziosmanpasa and Haciosman, are sup-
plied with water from the Belgrade Forest Reservoirs and treat about 3,000
m3 and 2,000 m3 daily respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6 Pages
9.        The distribution system by which ISI delivers water to its consumers
is generally old, complex and in very bad condition. Because of inadequacies
in the distribution system ISI operates tanker trucks to provide water for
buildings in the higher areas of European Istanbul. Most of the European
section is supplied from the Kagithane plant by an interconnected system.
Various well and spring sources, however, are used to supply local areas, some
of which are independent from the rest of the system (e.g. Florya, Zeytinburnu
and Osmaniye).
Asian System
10.       The only ISI source in Asia is the Elmali reservoirs, from which
18.1 million m3 were produced in 1971. Two dams in series on the Goksu Stream
(which flows into the Bosphorus) are supplied by a drainage area totalling
81.5 km2. Storage in the reservoirs is limited, particularly since rock move-
ment near the right abutment on the Elmali II dam has caused the reservoir
level to be reduced by 10 m pending remedial construction, which is expected
to be completed in 1972.
11.       Water is treated and pumped to the distribution system from the
Elmali plant near the base of Elmali I dam. Treatment is provided by a slow
sand filtration plant with a rated capacity of 15,000 m /diy and a newer rap-
id sand filtration plant with a rated capacity of 25,OQO m /day. In 1971 the
average daily production at Elmali was almost 50,000 m-/day but the overload-
ing on the treatment plants resulted in treated water of low quality. ISI is
currently constructing an additional clarifier at Elmali to improve the out-
put. Additional pumps are also to be added, allowing the plant to utilize
more of the water frequently available from the stream source.
Princes' Islands
12.       ISI has distribution systems on Buyukada and Heybeliada, the two
largest resort islands in the Marmara Sea. Water is brought from the
European and Asian systems to the islands by ships and pumped to reservoirs.
This supply augments a few small wells and the cisterns which most buildings
have to collect rainwater.
B.   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIES OUTSIDE ISTANBUL MUNICIPALITY
13.       The public water systems operating in the Istanbul region outside
the area served by ISI are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6 Pages
1970         No. of Water Supply,,
Location               Population            Connections
Europe
Kagithane Municipality           107,000                  9,800
Alibeykoy Municipality            22,000                    -
Rucukkoy Municipality             30,000                  3,700
Bayrampasa Municipality          124,000                 16,000
Mahmutbey Union                  133,000                  7,500
Kucukcekmece Municipality         40,000                  6,200
Asia
Umraniye Municipality             23,000                    _
Kartal Union                     152,000                 13,300
Gebze                             19,000                   n.a.
Total                 650,000                 56,500
14.       All systems independent from ISI rely on groundwater as ISI oper-
ates the only surface water sources in the region. As explained previously
(Annex 1), the municipalities of Alibeykoy and Kagithane are supplied with
water by ISI. Kagithane has additional sources but Alibeykoy has none.
15.       The largest system is that serving the Kartal Union.  (The organiza-
tion of a union of municipalities is described in Annex 1.) The Bank of the
Provinces developed six wells along the Riva River, just downstream of the
future Omerli damsite, and constructed a pipeline from the wells to the
Marmara coastal region (Map 2). This asbestos cement pipeline serves the
Kartal Union communities along the coast between Kucukyali and Darica. The
system began to operate in 1970 but has been unable to provide continuous
service in summer periods because construction of the Omerli dam has inter-
ferred with the wells and reduced their output. When the Omerli scheme is
operational the source for this system will be the Omerli treatment plant.
16.       The Mahmutbey Union includes four municipalities and ten villages
west of Istanbul. Twelve deep wells in three separate valleys provide the
water (approximately 4,000 m3/day in 1971) but rationing is required since
1/   Excluding public hydrants.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6 Pages
the supply is inadequate. With the assistance of the Bank of the Provinces
and YSE the distribution systems in the individual municipalities and villages
are being extended.
17.       The municipalities adjacent to Istanbul generally have water sys-
tems of a lower standard that ISI. All have rationing and are anxious to re-
ceive additional supplies from ISI. Most have a policy of encouraging pri-
vate connections and decreasing the number of public hydrants.
C.   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES IN THE ISTANBUL REGION
18.       ISI has generally refused to supply water requested by industries
in its area, and many of the outlying systems are unable to supply all indus-
trial requirements from their systems. It has been necessary for many con-
sumers, particularly industrial ones, to construct private water systems.
The Istanbul airport and the Yesilkoy and Yesilyurt areas, for example, are
served by private water systems (Map 2).
19.       Data on such systems are not easily obtained.  The DAMOC master plan
reported a total of 420 private wells in 1968 (302 in Europe and 118 in Asia).
It estimated that the total draft from all aquifers in the Istanbul urban re-
gion was some 30 million m3 per year. This included the groundwater sources
of ISI (reported to supply 5.6 million m3 in 1968) and all public systems out-
side Istanbul municipality, whose total supply in 1968 is not known but would
probably not exceed that provided by ISI's groundwater sources. Private wells,
therefore, probably supplied about 20 million m3 in 1968.
20.       Wells cannot be drilled without permission from DSI.  Since the
water table is falling in most parts of Istanbul, and since salinity is in-
creasing in wells near the coast, D6I is restricting the development of
new wells.
21.       As a direct consequence of the water shortages in Istanbul a large
number of private vendors deliver water throughout the region. There are ba-
sically three types:
(a) Water carriers who transport water from public fountains or
private sources within the area to local consumers.
(b) Water vendors who bottle water from distant springs and trans-
port it to Istanbul for sale on a retail or wholesale basis.
Quality and cost of the water vary. The standard container
(18 liters) retails from TL 0.50 to TL 1.50 (or from TL 28 to
TL 83 per m3, compared with the ISI price of TL 1.73 m3).  In
some areas a 3 liter bottle of spring water (whose quality is
reportedly controlled by local health authorities) costs as
much as TL 1.25 (or a rate of TL 417 per m3).
(c) Wholesale water vendors who bring water in tanker trucks for
industrial purposes. In 1971 water from such truckers was
reported to cost from TL 6 to TL 10 per m3.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6 Pages
ISI SYSTEM STATISTICS FOR 1971
European    Asian       Princes'    Total
Istanbul    Istanbul    Islands      System
Estimated population served       1,710,500   460,000      13,500 1/   2,18h,000
Average daily water pumped 2/
(m3/day)                            237,697    49,625         -          287,322
Average daily water sales 3/
(m3/day)                  _154,000    33,790                  910        188,700
Per capita daily water sales
for population served (l/c/d)            90         73         67              86
Percentage water unaccounted
for                                     36%        32%         -              34%
Number of connections               165,497    73,747       2,991         242,235
Number of hydrants for public use    1,473         313         -            1,786
Number of fire hydrants               1,009        346         16           1,371
Length of transmission
lines (km)                              163.3       44.9        2.4           210.6
Length of distribution
system (Ian)                          1,180.2      497.1       39.8        1,717.1
Number of distribution
system reservoir sites                   32 5/       3          5 4/           40
Capacity of distribution
system reservoirs (i3)              123,630 i/ 18,1400      7,580 4/     149,610
Number of distribution
system pumping stations                  19          7          2              28
1/   Estimated permanent (winter) population of Buyukada and Heybeliada.  Sumer
population estimated to total 170,000.
2/   Some water pumped from European and Asian sources is treated and shipped to
Princes' Islands.
3/   Estimated for 12 months on the basis of sales figures for 9 months.
4/   Including a reservoir on Kinaliada and one on Burgazada (total capacity
4,400 m3) not currently used.
5/   Including reservoir at Beyazit (capacity 11,250 m3) not currently used.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 15 pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Program and The Prolect
A.   SYSTEM PLANNING
1.        The population of the Istanbul urban region 1/ was one million in
1950, two million in 1964 and approximately three million in 1971. As the
population has grown the water supply authorities have given increasing con-
sideration to ways of increasing the supply. In 1961 ISI prepared a ten-
year program for Istanbul. In 1962 DSI and ISI produced "The Investigation
Report for Drinking Water Project of Istanbul". In 1965 consultants from
USA (Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton, or TADS) submitted their "Master
Plan for Istanbul-Izmit Water Supply Project". Unfortunately, no additional
sources of water were developed so the shortage has grown with the popula-
tion.
2.        In 1966 the UNDP Special Fund agreed to assist in the preparation
of a master plan for water supply and sewerage in the Istanbul region.
DAMIOC were appointed as consultants for the UNDP/WHO project and instructed
to:
(a) develop a comprehensive master plan to satisfy the exist-
ing and projected needs of the area until the year 2020;
(b) identify the most urgent requirements for water supply
facilities and make proposals for them compatible with the
master plan;
(c) complete preliminary engineering for improvements to in-
crease capacity to the level required to meet the projected
1985 demand.
I/   The Istanbul urban region is defined to include Istanbul Municipality
and all population centers in the vicinity. The region extends up the
Bosphorus almost to the Black Sea and includes settlements along the
Marmara coast from Kucukcekmece Lake to Gebze. Twenty one municipali-
ties are located in the region as follows:
In Europe:  Istanbul, Kagithane, Alibeykoy, Kucukkoy, Bayrampasa,
Kucukcekmece, Gungoren, Safrakoy, Kocasinan and
Esenler.
In Asia:    Istanbul, Umraniye, Kucikyali, Maltepe, Kartal, Pendik,
Yakacik, Tuzla, Darica, Dolayoba, Soganli and Gebze.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 15 Pages
3.        Work started on this UNDP/WHO project in 1966 and the DAMOC master
plan was available in draft form in 1970. By that time, and in accordance
with the master plan, DSI had already commenced construction on the three
main sources to be developed in the short term:  Terkos Lake extensions,
Alibey Dam and Omerli Dam (see Map 1). The next sources which DAMOC recom-
mended for development were Kucukcekmece and Buyukcekmece Lakes, which were
anticipated to be required in 1986 and 1991 respectively. After the year
2000 it is planned to provide additional water from reservoirs to be built
in Asia. Untreated water from these reservoirs (named Darlik and Isakoy)
would be pumped to the Omerli reservoir.
4.        Present plans for the development of source and treatment plant
capacity in the short term are as follows:
Sources                       Treatment Plants
Additional                          Additional
Capacity                            Capacity
Year                            (mlllion                            (million
Compl(eted     Location          m3/year)          Location           m3/year)
1972        Terkos Lake             58        Kagithane Modifica-       18
tion
1975        Omerli Reservoir       180
1975        Alibey Reservoir        31
1975/6                                        Omerli - Stage 1         110
1975/6                                        Kagithane Extension    110
1980                                          Omerli - Stage 2         110
1984        Kucukcekmece Lake       56        Cekmece - Stage 1         52
The capacity of Terkos Lake is the estimated reliable annual yield corres-
ponding to a constant rate of pumping. The capacity from Omerli and Alibey
reservoirs is the estimated reliable annual yield with planned seasonal var-
iations in the rates of abstraction. The present yield of the partially com-
pleted Alibey reservoir (8 million m3/year) is assumed to be constant until
completion of the dam in 1975. Treatment plant capacity is stated in terms
of design capacity for peak day operation.
5.        The project for which the Government of Turkey has requested a
Bank loan is a portion of the current water supply program and is defined
as that portion of the program which DSI and ISI can commit and substantially
complete in the period 1972-1976. Facilities proposed in the master plan on



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 15 Pages
which construction commenced before the project period, or which will not be
substantially completed within the project period, are not intended to be
financed from the proposed loan. As the entire Omerli system should be com-
pleted in 1976, that year defines the end of the project period.
6.        The program covers the period 1966-1984.  Construction on the
Alibey dam, the first of the three major sources now being developed, began
in 1966. The full capacity of these new sources (Alibey, Terkos and Omerli)
is expected to be utilized by 1984. Subsequent investment will not be dis-
cussed further.
7.        The proposed Bank Group lending would assist DSI and ISI, the
agencies mainly responsible for the program. The programs of DSI and ISI,
including the project components for each, are described in Sections B and
C of this annex respectively. Project cost estimates are presented in
Annex 4 and the construction schedule in Annex 5.
B.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION BY DSI
8.        Tables 1 and 2 at the end of this annex describe in detail the
major components of the D6I program and project.  Technical data on these
components are outlined subsequently in Tables 3 and 4.
9.        DSI is now developing the Alibey, Terkos and Omerli sources con-
currently. When construction of the Alibey dam was begun in 1966 it was
expected that this source would be available to augment Istanbul's water
supply within a few years. Foundation difficulties in the alluvial valley
have slowed progress considerably. The dam is not presently expected to be
completed before 1975, although water has been pumped from the small reser-
voir formed by the cofferdam since late in 1968. Filling of the Omerli
reservoir should commence by- the end of 1972. The reservoir is expected
to take more than a year to fill.
10.       The pumping plants and transmission facilities to deliver water
from the Terkos-Alibey system to the Kagithane treatment plant should be
operational by mid-1972, at which time water shortages in Europe should be
greatly reduced. The existing treatment plant at Kagithane will be able to
treat much of the additional water (Annex 2, paragraph 7).
11.       DSI plans to increase the capacity of the Kagithane plant by
300,000 m31day. The additional capacity is required to utilize the addi-
tional water provided by the Terkos-Alibey system and to meet peak seasonal
demands. The first units of the expansion should be available by the summer
of 1975 but the entire plant is not expected to be completed until 1976.
12.       The entire Omerli system, including dam, treatment plant, pipeline
and two pumping stations, is not expected to be completed until 1976. By
mid-1974 the pumping stations and pipeline from Omerli to the Camlica reser-
voir are expected to be completed. Until the first units of the treatment



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 15 Pages
plant are commissioned in 1975 DSI may pump untreated or partially treated
water to Istanbul to reduce the expected shortages there.
13.       The Omerli source will also supply the Marmara coastal region,
where a new pipeline will be constructed to augment the capacity of the
existing Kartal Union system (Map 2). Temporary arrangements to augment
the present inadequate supply, based on wells near the Omerli dam site,
are expected to be operating by 1974.
14.       DSI are also constructing vital elements of the transmission
system within Istanbul, principally from the Kagithane treatment plant,
along the west side of the Golden Horn, and connecting the European and
Asian systems by a pipeline crossing underneath the Bosphorus. Most of
the feeder mains to be built by DSI in the Istanbul area are prestressed
concrete pipelines from the new DSI factory at Tuzla, although some mains
required before the plant started production in 1971 consist of steel
pipes.
15.       The Bosphorus underwater pipeline was investigated by a Bank
consultant (Van Houten Associates) in January/February 1972. After examin-
ing alternative sites, the consultant recommended building the pipeline
south of the Golden Horn, between Sarayburnu on the European side and
Salacek on the Asian side. DSI intend to construct the pipeline in the
near future. Prior to the completion of the Omerli system the pipeline
will be used to augment the Asian supply with water from the Kagithane
treatment plant. After 1975 the Bosphorus pipeline will be used to supply
demand in Europe from the abundant and relatively less expensive water
from the Omerli system.
16.       The Istanbul program is the first major water supply scheme to
be undertaken by DSI. To implement later stages of this program and
similar ones for other towns, DSI staff require specialized training in
particular technical areas. Included in the project is post-graduate
training for two or three eng4neers in each of the following subjects:
(a) Design, construction and operation of major pipelines,
with special reference to problems of water hammer.
(b) Design, construction and operation of water treatment
plants.
(c) System planning of water supply projects, with particular
emphasis on economic aspects.
C.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION BY ISI
17.       Considerable improvement is required in the distribution system
serving Istanbul. Present inadequacies have been partially concealed by the
lack of water supplied to the system. The DSI program will shortly eliminate
this constraint and the deficiencies in the distribution system will become
much more obvious.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 15 Pages
18.       ISI is presently responsible for constructing facilities to distri-
bute treated water within Istanbul Municipality. Its future program is less
easy to define than that of DSI for two reasons:
(a) The master plan identified specific elements of the DSI
program and recommended their construction at particular
times in the future. While the source development program
was logically staged the master plan paid considerably less
attention to the identification and staging of individual
elements of the distribution system. DAMOC recommended the
appropriate system to meet anticipated requirements in 2020
AD. Elements of this system which were required in the in-
termediate term (1985) were also identified. But the exist-
ing distribution system was not analyzed to determine the
major weaknesses and no specific recommendations were made
for the staging of construction from 1970 to 1985.
(b) The master plan ignored administrative boundaries. ISI is
only responsible for supplying water within Istanbul Munici-
pality. Until formal arrangements are made ISI cannot con-
struct facilities in outside municipalities. There is some
uncertainty at present about the responsibility for and the
timing of the construction of the distribution system outside
Istanbul Municipality. ISI is making provisional plans to
implement elements of this regional system.
19.       Definition of the ISI program is also hindered by the agency's
limited planning capacity. In the past there was little incentive for ISI
to concentrate on system planning because the major constraints to expand-
ing the distribution system were lack of water and financial limitations.
With the removal of the first constraint in sight, ISI believes that its
program will be limited only by the availability of funds. The mission's
view is that the capacity of ISI to plan and design new elements to the
distribution system is a primary constraint. A related institutional con-
straint will be the capacity of ISI to administer a greatly expanded con-
struction program.
20.       The major part of ISI's construction will continue to be the in-
stallation of distribution pipelines, both to extend the system and to re-
place old and small pipes within the present system. For convenience, DAMOC
refers to "primary" distribution as mains of 300 mm diameter or more, and
"secondary" distribution as pipes smaller than 300 mm diameter. DAMOC rec-
ommended that ISI should undertake pipeline installation in the period 1970-
76 at the following average rates:



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 15 Pages
Construction of primary distribution mains           54 km per year
Replacement of existing primary and secondary
distribution mains                                114 km per year
Total          168 km per year
This estimate excludes pipes smaller than 300 mm diameter in the secondary
distribution system which are required to serve new consumers, the length of
which would be considerably more than the new primary mains. According to
the master plan, therefore, at least 300 km of distribution mains should be
constructed per year.
21.       The proposal submitted to the Bank called for ISI to complete the
following lengths of pipeline in the distribution system:
Year             Length of Pipelines Installed
Primary             Secondary                Total
Distribution        Distribution
(300 mm and         (less than
greater)            300 mm)
----------------------km----------- ---------
1972     50                    89                    139
1973     25                   121                    146
1974     17                   151                    168
1975     15                   168                    183
1976     18                   168                    186
Total   125                   697                     822
22.       During the appraisal process it has been necessary for the mission
to judge the size of the program which can be justified and which ISI can
reasonably be expected to complete during the project period. The following
table indicates the past and projected activity by ISI on its distribution
system.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 15 Pages
Increase in              Length of Pipelines Installed (km)
Number of          Primary             Secondary
Year    Connections    Distribution            Distribution       Total
(300 mm & greater) (Less than 300 mm)
1966       10,623                                 66.9             66.9
1967       21,190            -                    52.8             52.8
1968       21,568           4.3                   70.2             74.5
Actual   1969        21,165            1.7                  76.9             78.6
1970       20,684           8.0                   75.4             83.4
1971       20,288           14.6                  41.6             56.2
1972       23,000          35.0                   70.0            105.0
1973       23,000          40.0                   95.0            135.0
Proposed 1974        21,000          45.0                  120.0            165.0
Project  1975        20,000          45.0                  130.0            175.0
1976       18,000          45.0                  130.0            175.0
Project  Total      105,000         210.0                  545.0            755.0
23.       At the time of appraisal ISI planners were able to identify some
98 km of primary distribution lines to be laid in the period 1972-75.  These
lines, generally in accordance with the master plan of DAMOC, have been
selected as the ones most urgently required to reinforce the existing distri-
bution system and to connect the European and Asian distribution systems to
the Bosphorus crossing which DSI will construct.
24.       Additional primary distribution mains will be required in the proj-
ect period even though ISI cannot identify the individual lines at this time.
Some will be required as the basis for expanding the distribution system with-
in Istanbul Municipality. Others will be required to strengthen the system
in the outside municipalities, and it is probable that the appropriate admin-
istrative arrangements will be made to authorize ISI to carry out such work.
No construction would be undertaken outside Istanbul Municipality prior to
the completion of the necessary formalities. Following is a breakdown of
the lengths which ISI can be expected to construct during the project period:



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 15 Pages
Length of Primary Distribution Pipelines (km)
Istanbul Municipality__
Already
Identified   Additional                         Other
Year      by ISI       Extensions   Replacement   Municipalities            Total
1972        35                     -                       -                  35
1973        30             5              -                5                  40
1974        20            10              5               10                  45
1975        13            12             10               10                  45
1976         -            20             10               15                  45
Total       98            47              25              40                 210
25.       The capacity of ISI to plan its primary distribution system is
restricted, but its capacity to plan the secondary distribution system, the
pipes which actually deliver water to the consumers, is almost non-existent.
In fact prior to 1971 no such planning was attempted: the department of ISI
responsible for making new connections installed pipes in the streets when-
ever the local offices thought the need existed. (The organization of ISI
is discussed in Annex 9).
26.       ISI intends to extend the secondary distribution system consider-
ably in the near future, particularly to areas where the population now de-
pends on public hydrants for its water. In 1972 the areas of Zeytinburnu
and Gaziosmanposa will be provided with new distribution systems: designs
are underway. Other areas to be served include Yesilkoy, Ferikoy, Levent,
Beykoy, Fikirtepe, Kavacik, and Davut Pasa. In addition to these areas in-
side Istanbul Municipality it is probable that ISI will carry out extensions
to distribution systems in outside municipalities, provided that the appro-
priate administrative arrangements are made. ISI also plans to replace the
small diameter pipelines which are old and inadequate to provide the amount
of water required by consumers. Priority will be given to the replacement
of 45 km of lines of diameter 60 mm or less. The lengths of distribution
pipes which ISI expects to install during the project period can be outlined
as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 15 Pages
Length of Secondary Distribution Pipelines (km)
Istanbul Municipality
Minor         New                                Outside
Year      Extensions   Systems    Replacements            Municip2alities  Total
1972          15           40            15                      -           70
1973          20           60            15                      -           95
1974          25           60            15                     20          120
1975          25           60            15                     30          130
1976          25           60            15                     30          130
Total        110          280            75                     80          545
27.       The project includes the purchase of domestic water meters.  In the
past consumers were allowed to supply their own meters but ISI now installs
its meters on all new connections. ISI estimates that about half of the
consumers own their meters and suspect that much of the unaccounted for water
in the system (34% in 1971) results from under-registration of meters. The
agency therefore wishes to test each meter once in five years and to gradual-
ly replace all faulty meters. It is not possible to provide precise esti-
mates of the number of meters which will be required. A reasonable estimate
is as follows:
Number of Water Meters
New
Year                        Connections      Replacements        Total
1972                          23,000           10,000           33,000
1973                          23,000           15,000           38,000
1974                          21,000           20,000           41,000
1975                          20,000           25,000           45,000
1976                          18,000           30,000           48,000
Total                        105,000           100,000         205,000
There is an apparent decrease in the number of new connections, although
the number of new consumers is actually expected to increase during the
period. In recent years, however, many apartment buildings have changed
from a single meter for the building to one meter for each apartment. The



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 15 Pages
number of people served has not changed in such cases but the number of
connections reflects the increase in the number of separately metered con-
sumers. This conversion of apartment building meters is expected to de-
crease in future, resulting in the reduced number of new connections esti-
mated in future years.
28.        Master meters and pressure gauges which are required to improve
the analysis and operation of the system are included in the project.
29.        The following distribution reservoirs are expected to be built by
ISI during the project period:
Year             Location
1972/73          Levent                  20,000
1972/73          Buyukdere                 1,000
1974             Kucukkoy                    500
1976             Kartal area           Not determined
Additional reservoirs which ISI tentatively proposed to construct in Asian
Istanbul will probably be made unnecessary by the reservoir expected to be
built by DSI at Camlica on the pipeline from Omerli.
30.       The following pumping stations are included in the project:
Year             Location              Installed Horsepower
1972/73          Levent                         450
1972/73          Istinye                         60
1976             Kartal area              Not determined
31.       Pressure reducing stations are required for low pressure zones of
the distribution system which are supplied with water from the Omerli scheme.
It is expected that DSI will be responsible for the actual connections to the
Omerli pipeline but that ISI will build the structure to house the pressure
reducing valve and make all necessary connections to the distribution system.
32.       Purchase of operation and maintenance equipment for ISI is included
in the project. Included in this category is telecommunications equipment
to improve operating procedures. At present the ISI communications between
Istanbul and Terkos Lake are very bad, and when the new sources are operating
it will be imperative for the various parts of the system to communicate with
each other.



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 15 Pages
33.       The existing conduits between Terkos Lake and the Kagithane treat-
ment plant (Map 1) are old and full of holes. Losses are estimated from 4%
to 10% of the water pumped into the gallery and cast iron pipeline. When
the Terkos Alibey diversion begins to operate in 1972 these old conduits can
be taken out of service for repair. The question is whether or not addition-
al investments in these conduits can be justified. As an alternative trans-
mission route to the new diversion between Terkos and Kagithane, they provide
a measure of security to the system. The pumping head through the conduits
is lower than through the diversion and the water is cleaner when it reaches
Kagithane, therefore requiring less treatment. ISI will undertake these
renovations (replastering the gallery and relining the pipeline) only after
studying whether or not such expenditures can be justified economically.
34.       The project includes training for ISI staff.  Courses for account-
ing staff will be organized in Istanbul. Management consultants will pro-
vide training in techniques of modern management. Engineering staff will be
trained informally by working with consulting engineers on the distribution
system analysis. Training abroad for several engineers is required in spe-
cialized subjects:
(a) distribution network analysis;
(b) utilization of computers in water utilities as an
operational and planning tool; and
(c) operation of treatment, pumping and transmission systems.






Table 1                                                                ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 15
Description of DSI Program Components
(Excluding Proposed Project)
Terkos - Alibey Diversion System                                                   Groundwater Schemes in European Istanbul
To utilize the total estimated yield of Terkos Lake(120                            As an interim step to reduce water shortages in European
million m3) requires raising the water level  and developing                       Istanbul DSI developed several wells and associated transmission
additional pemping and transmission capacity.  DSI is acquiring                    lines in the Bakirkoy and Sagealcilar areas from 1968 to 1970.
land on the perimeter of Terkos Lake, relocating roads and                         The Bakirkoy system is now in operation by ISI;  that for Sagmalcilar
building the dikes necessary for this increase in water level.                     is being operated by that municipality (whose name has been changed
Since the natural barrier between the northern shore of Terkos                     to Bayraspasa).
Lake and the Black Sea is a narrew band of low sand dunes, DSI
has undertaken a progrem  of dune stabilization to prevent the                     Qmerli Dam
dunes from continuing to move inland.
Before the UNDP/WHO master plan was prepared DSI had prepared
A new pumping station which will begin operation in 1972 has                  designs for the Omerli Dam on the Riva River, based -., the recoim-
been built on the edge of TerkD  Lake.  The iniitial installation                   mendations of previous planning for source development.  DAMOC
includes three pumps to supply the new Terkos -Alibey diversion                     reviewed and approved the DSI designs, noting that staged construc-
(see below) but provision is alsc made in the pumphouse for the                     tion of the dem and appurtenant structures would not be economical.
future installation of new pumps to serve the existing Terkos -                     DSI began construction of the Omerli Dam late in 1968, doing the
Kagithane gallery and cast iron pipeline.  Unitl these new pumps                    foundation grouting by force account and using contractors for all
are installed the old pumping station, located nearby, will continue                other work.
to be used.
At the end of 19'71 the diversion tunnel was operational, most
The Terkos - Alibey diversion is a new transmission system to                 of the spillway was completed and the earth fill embankment had
deliver water from Terkos Lake to the Alibey Reservoir, from which                  reached a level of 32 m. DSI expects to close the diversion and
it will be pumped to Kagithane for treatment.  The new diversion,                   begin filling the reservoir in September 1972.  The relocation of
expected to be operational in mid-1972, consists of a short section                 the Omerli - Pendik road is being undertaken by the Directorate
of pressure pipeline, a lined tunnel and an open canal which will                   of Highways.
flow into the Alibey Reservoir. The conduit has been designed by
DSI to handle the full yield of Terkos Lake, although DAMOC had                          In the lorg term planning of future water sources the master
recommended that the new system  have capacity for only a partial                   plan calls for the Darlik and Isakoy dams to be built northeast
diversion of the available water, with the balance being supplied                   of Omerli after the year 2000.  The untreated water from these
through the existing Terkos - Kagithane conduits.                                   future sources would be pumped into the Omerli reservoir.  Additional
treatment, pumping and transmission facilities would then be
Alibey Dam and Pumping Station                                                      installed to deliver this additional water to Istanbul.
DSI began constructior of the Alibey dam in 1966 on the basis                  Omerli Treatment Plant and Pumping Stations
of the 1965 report by T/MS.  When the Alibey den was begun it was
expected that this source could be able to augment the system cap-                       The first stage of these facilities is included in the proposed
acity by some 39 million m3 per year by 1969.  Foundation difficul-                 project and described in Table 2.  By about 1980 it is expected
ties have been experienced, however, a,:d construction progress has                 that the second stage, with an estimated increase in capacity of
been substantially delayed by the need to raise the dam slowly in                   300,000 m3/day, will be required to meet the growing system demand
order to allow  consolidation of the embankment.  DSI continues to                  for water.
construct the dam by force account out now expects that it will not
be completed until 1975.                                                            Prestressed Concrete Pipe Factory
The upstream  coffer dam. provides a very small reservoir at the                   DSI realized that the program  of source development for Istanbul
Alibey site which has been used since September 1968 to supply                      would require the construction of many kilometers of large diameter
limited quantities of water to the Kagithane treatment plant through                pipelines.  Prestressed concrete pipes are generally the most
a temporary psospine station erected by ISI   In 1971, for example,                 economical type for large diamters.  In 1969 DSI signed a con'ract
this reservoir provided some 80 milliDn m3, or 8% of the water                     with the French firm  Bonna to construct a prestressed concrete pipe
pumped by !SI.                                                                      factory at Tuzla on the Marmara coast to supply pipes for the
Istanbul progran. (The same contract also covered the construction
Although the Alibey reservoir cannot provide much additional                   of a similar factory in Ankara. ) The contract called for Bonna to
water for Istanbul until the dam is completed it will play a valuable               provide the factory and operate it to produce a total of 6.7 km of
role in the Terkos - Alibey diversion, since raw water from Terkos                  prestressed concrete pipes.  This initial production from  the factory
can flow through The 'ermporary reservoir enroute to Kagithane,                     was to be installed  (also by Bonna under the same contract) in the
transiting the reservoir without requiring the storage capacity                     Terkos - Alibey diversion and the Alibey - Kagithane pressure line.
which the completed dam will develop.                                               Initial production from  the factory began in 1971.  By 1972 the two
pipelines specified in the con-ract are expected to be operational.
The completion of the Alibey dam will affect the present ISI
system  in three ways:                                                                   The original intention was to have DSI take over the "actory
(after its initial operation by Bonna) and use it to prodace the
(a)  The yield from the Alibey source will be increased to 39.0               prestressed concrete pipes required for various elements of The
million m3/year when the Alibey reservoir is fully operation-            program.  Late in 1971, however, DSI and Boone conducted  -cqotiatians
al.                                                                      to have Bonea extend the existing contract and continue -o produce
and install pipes from the Tuzla factory for the Cmerli - Istanbul
(b)  Operating costs will be reduced by lowering the pumping                  pipeline.  Under this contract extension Bonna will cperate the
head at toe Alibey pumping station and by improving the                  factory and supply and lay 23.8 Ien of pipes for the Omerli system.
quali-y of raw wa-er through increased sedimentation in                  These pipelines are included in the project (Table 2).
the larger reservoir.
Miscellaneous Transmission Facilitiec
(c) Substantial raw water storage will be provided for peaking
operations at the Kagithane treatment plant.                                 DSI are undertaking all prestressed concrete pipelines required
in Istanbul (utilizing their new factory at Tuzla to supply these
he permanent pumping station at the Alibey site began to operate             pipes) and have also begun constructing several steel pipelines
in  anuary 1971.          This station will deliver raw water to the                needed in the immediate future to utilize water from the expansicn
Kagithane treatment plant through a 5 km long prestressed concrete                  of the Terkos - Alibey - Kagithane facilities.
pipeline presently heing installed.
The feeder mains to be constructed as part of the proposed
Kagithane Treatment Plant                                                           project are described in Table 2.  DSI has already begun several
pipeline- in European Istanbul which are part of the progs-m bUt noa
In line with toe DAMOC master plan recommendations a fifth clari-            included in -he proposed project.
fier has been bouilt at the existing rapid sand filtration plant.
It was first used in January 1972. With a nominal capacity of 50,000
m3/day, this addition will give the total plant a rated capacity of
315,000 m3/day (including the 65,0GD m3/day capacity of the slow sand
filtration plant). On peak summer days it is expected that the plant
will be able 'o produce at least 365,000 m3/day of water of acceptable
quality. This extension was actually carried out by ISI, acting as a
contractor for DSI.
note:  Data for 1SI program component are given in outline form in Table 3.                                                               Jum  7, 1972






Table 2                                                         ANNEX 3
Page 13 oh 15
Description of DSI Components of Proposed Project
Terkos- Alibey System                                                                  Cmerli Clear Water Pumping Station
Most work associated with increasing the available                                     Between the treatment plant and Istanbul, some 27 kim to
yield of Terkos Lake has been completed or is underway                                  the west, the treated water has to flow over a hill some 6  m
as part of the DSI program, except for a drainage pumping                               higher than the treated water reservoir.  Accordingly all water
station.  This station will evacutate water from behind                                 treated for Istanbul has to be pumped after as well as before
the dyke being built to protect the Ormanli area north                                  treatment.  This plant is also designed for future expansion.
of Terkos Lake.
MSoO  included in the project is the purchase and                                 Maor Trsnisaion Pipelines
installation of pumps to supply the existing masonry gallery                            Europe
and cast iron pipeline which supply the Kagithane Treatment
Plant.  These pumps would be erected in the new pumping                                     The Kagithane - -iustepe pipeline will deliver water from
station in 1973/74.                                                                     the proposed Kagithane pumping station to the medium pressure
zone northeast of the Golden Horn. This pipeline lieso iostly
Kagithane Treatment Plant                                                               outside Istanbul Municipality.
The present plant has a rated capacity of 315,000 m3/day                               The Bosphorus - Bakirkoy pipeline runs near the Marmara
(115 million m3/year), but can be operated at rates up to                               coast in European Istanbul from the  -olden Horn to the 3akirkoy
365,000 m3/day on peak days.  The plant is supplied with raw                            reservoir.  Final design for the line has not been completed
water from three sources (Terkos Lake, Alibey Reservoir, and                            but the alignment is expected tc follow  the coastal highway.
Belgrade Forest Reservoirs) which will have a total estimated                           This line would be supplied by Omerli water via the Bosphnorus
yield of some 164 million m3 per year.  Additional capacity is                          pipeline.  Pressure reducing stations at Ayassfa and Yenkapi
required to enable the full yield of these sources to be                                are required to serve the low pressure distribution cones in
treated and to meet capacity requirements on peak days.  DSI                            this part of Istanbul.
proposes o construct a new plant, with a design capacity of
300,000 a3 per day, in the vicinity of the existing facilities.                         Asia
(This is the same capacity as the proposed new Omerli plant
and will be built under the same contract.)                                                 The COerli - Camlica - Bosphorus pipeline has a design
capacity of 550,000 m3/day, the maximum flow expected to be
Kagithane Pumping Station and Clear Water Reservoir                                     supplied towards Istanbul from the Omerli system.  At the hign
point on the pipeline, at elevation 140 m sose 11.5 lon from
These facilities will be built adjacent to the existing                           the treated water pumping station, a small reservoir will be
water treatment plant wad will be used to boost water into                              constructed.  From this point water will gravitate to a
the medium level distribution cone (approximately between                               reservoir in the Camlica area at about elevation 125 m.  From
elevations 55 s and 115 m) in those parts of Istanbul north                             lamlica the pipe passes through more built-up areas until it
of the Golden Horn (Bcyoglu, Sisli, Mecidiyekoy, Abide-i-                               reaches the Bosphorus underwater pipeline.  Several offtakes
Hurrivet and Kagithane areas).                                                          are required along tie pipeline, and those serving lo  leve
distribution cones will require pressur reducing valves.
Taslitarla Pumping Station
An access road and tele,setering cable will parallel this
This station will be built alonGside the Kagithane -                              pipeline.
Munr.evi feeder line (now under construction) and boost water
to the high prescore distributicn sone west of the Golden                                   From  -erli water will gravitate southward to supply tho
Horn.  This zone includes the Taslitarla area of Istanbul                               Macmara coastal region.  A large new pipeline parallelling
and adjacent Kuccukkoy Municipality.                                                   toe existing Kartal Union line will branch behind Pendik to
serve coastal areas to the north and south,  During toe
Omoerli Raw Water Pocping Statios                                                       project period that part of the line running from Omerli
to Pendik and north in Cevicli, from which point future under-
This plant, sited on toe edge of the reservoir being                              water pipeline to the brinces' islands could be supplied, will
created by the Omerli ,am, will pump raw water from the intake                          be built.  One branch of the line from Omerli runs south to serve
structure in the reservoir to tie treatment plant some 2.5 Pm                           Gebse, requiring a smal- pumping station.  Darica is to be supplied
away.  She civil works for the plant are designed for the                               by a short connection to this line.
ultimote capacity of this source but only three pumps will be
installed initially.                                                                    Bosphorus Underwater Pipeline
Cmerli Treatment Plant                                                                      Two separate water systems presently operate on either
side of the Bosphorus. Fron 1972, when the Terkos - Alibey
The plant site is on a hill southwest of the future Omerli                        diversior begins to operate, the European side of Istanbul will
reservoir.  Treated water will oravita-e south to supply the                            have mos- of the water it needs while severe shortages persist
Marmars rnassai region but will require pumping to reach the                            on the Asian side.  Initial operatiso  of the Clmerli scheme in
Istanbul region to the west.  All water from the  Cmerli scheme                         1975 will end shortages on the Asian side but shortly 'tereafter
will be 'reated at this plant, which in the first stage will be                         European demand will significantly exceed the supply on that
developed -o treat a maximum of 60fo of th.e estimated yield of                         side.
tne reservoir. Tne intention is to operate the Dmerli system
at a fairly constant rate and to meet  he peaks of system demand                             tie bosphorus underwater pipeline -will be the link 'o tie
fros the Kagithane plant, close to Istanbul.                                            the European and Asian water systems together.  The selected
crossing site is south of the Golden Morn where -he maimum
A treated water reservoir with a capacity of lO,OOD s3 will                        water depth is about 50 m.  Power  nd -elephone cables have been
be incorporated in  he initial stage of -he treatment plant.                            laid nearby.  Tie water pipeline will be internaly and exsernally
coated to prevent corrosion and will be weighted hut will not
Construction of -he Cmerli dam and the filling of the reservoir                  be buried since the risks of damage in this prohibited anchorage
will affect the existing well system servirg the Kartel Union                          area are slight and the costs of excavation ver,y high.
(Map 2).  tintil the Omerli  reatment plant is completed and replaces
t:te wells as the source for the sys-em, DSI intends to make                                Cathodic protection would be provided by rectified electric
temporary arrangements to pump and provide limited treatment                           current to prevent corrosion of the steel piDes in 'he salt water
.sedimentation) for water from te reservoir  a- thne Cmerli plant                     environment.
site. These interim arrangements should be in effect from 1973.
Note:  Data for DSI project components are given in outline form in Table 4                                                     June 7, 1972






Table 3ANE3
Page 14 of 15
Data for DSI Program Components (Excluding Proposed Project)
Terkos Lake Enlargement                                                      Omerli Dam and Reservoir
Drainage area                       _  619 km2                                Type of dam                 -  Earth fill, clay core
Estimated average annual runoff  _  196 million m3                           Embankment volume            - 2,475 million m3
Estimated average annual yield    -  129 million m3                           Crest elevation              -  67.0 m
Enlarged operating range            -  El. 0.0 m to 4.5 m                     Crest length                -  370 m
Surface area at top level           -  42 km                                 Dam height                   -  52 m
Live storage volume                 -  154 million m3                         Reservoir drainage area   -  621 km2
Estimated average annual  -  213.9 million m
Number of likes                     -3                                          runoff
Length of dikes                     -  3.57 km                               Estimated average annual  -  180.0 million m3
yield
New Terkos Lake Pumping Station                                                 Provision for seepage and -  6.4 million m3/year
downstream releases
Design capacity               -  120 million m3/year (329,000 m3/            Reservoir operating range -  46.0 m to 62.0 m
day) for 22 hours pumping.                  Surface area at top level -  23 km2
Intake arrangements           -  Steel intake cage, intake struc-
ture with screens, 1300 a rein-             Tive storage volume          -  267 million m3
forced concrete intake conduit              Dead storage volume          -  120 million m3
(2.0 m sq) to pumping station
forebay.                                    Estimated annual reoer-   -  186,000 a3
voir sedimentation
Number of pumps               -  Ultimate total = 6                          Diversion tunnel             -  Initial capacity   270 m3/sec
Type of pumps                -  Centrifugal, vertical shaft                                                   (50 year flood)
Permanent discharge capacity
Initial pump installation  -  3 pumps for Terkos-Alibey Div-                                                  = 10.2 m3/sec thro1gh emergency
ersion, each 1.4 m3/sec at 86 m                                             valve in 1.0 ra diameter oteel
head,                                                                       outlet conduit
Treatment arrangements       -  Pre-chlorination at intake struc-            Spillway type                -  Ogee crested weir with concrete
ture to inhibit growth of mussels                                           chute and stilling basin
Spillway dimensions          -  30 m wide at crest elevation 62 m
Terkos-Alibey Diversion Conduit                                                 Spillway capacity            -  2 380 m3/sec at reservoir eleva-
Design capacity               -  120 million m3/year (329,000 m3/                                             tion 65 a
day)
Conduit sections:             -  2.3 in of 1.85 m diameter pre-            Tuzla Pipe Factory
(total length = 14.0 ki)        stressed concrete p                         Type of pipe produced          -  Non-cylinder prestresoed
O.8  mn of open canal (concrete-                                               concrete
lined
0.3 km of covered canal                     Transportation access          -  Road, rail, sea
1.9 In of concrete-lined tunnel             Number of production units  -  7
8.7 km of open canal (concrete-
lined)                                     Type of production unit        -  Vertical pit
Terminus                      -  Natural channel of Alibey Creek,            Diameters presently
upstream of Alibey Reservoir                produced (m)                   -  1.4o, i.6o, 1.85, 2.00 and 2.20
Pipe length                    -  6 m
Weight range of finished
Alibey D&m and Reservoir                                                        Weightrargeoffinishdpipe       -  9.5 tons to 20 tons
Type of dm               -  Earth fill, clay core                            Maximum production capacity -  21 pipes/day for 3 shift
Embarkment volume        -  1,960 m3                                                                            o        nr 2             t
Crest elevation          -  34.0 a
Dam height               -  28.0 m
Feeder Lines
Crest length             -  290 m                                                 Lin               Construction Length   Dia.
Reservoir drainage       -  160 im2                                              Location               Period       (in)    (a)  _ ypa
area                                                                       Europe
Estimated average        -  47.2 million m3
annual runloff                                                            Alibey_Kagithane          1972           4.9    1.85    Prestressed
Estimated annual runoff _  39 0 million n3                                                                                           concrete
Estimated annual yield -  39.0 million n3                                    Kagithane-Bomonti         1970-71       4.C    1.0       Steel
Reservir operating    _  El. 8.6 m to 32.0 
range                                                                      Bomonti-Kustepe-Levent 1971-72          5.1    1.0       Steel
Surface area at top      -  4.9 km2                                          Kagithane-ISunzevi        1971-72       9.4   0.7-10   Steel
level
Live storage volume    -  64.9 million a3                                    Anatolia
Temporary spillway       _  2 steel gates discharging to bypass              Cevizli-Kucukyali         1976          5.5   0.5-0.6  Steel
arrangements              channel  -  (to protect upstream                 Pendik-Sebze             1975.76       18.9   o.8-o.6  Steel
coffer dam during construction)
Permanent spillway       -  1,000 m3/sec                                     Darica branches           1976          3.7   0.3-0.35 St.eel
capacity                                                                   Princes' Island Submarine  Pipelines
Spillway sill level    -  22.5 m                                             Mainland-Buyukada         1977          3.35   0.75    Steel
Spillway gates .            2 radial gates, 8.35 a by 10.0 m                 Euyukada_-eybeliada    1977             1.27   0.50    Steel
Diversion and intake    -  4.0 a diameter, 500 m long                        Heybeliada-Burgazada   1978             0.73   0.40    Steel
tunnel
Inlet arrangement:       -  Concrete inlet tower with stoplogs               Burgazada-Kinaliada       1979          2.00   0.30    Steel
and screens
Alibey Pumping Station
Design capacity           - 7.5 a3/sec
INumber of pumps          - 5
Pomp  capacity            _  1.5 m3/sec each at 89 m head
Type of pumps             -  Centrifugal, horizontal shaft
Note:  Description of DSI program components is given in Table 1.                                                          Tune 7, 1972






ANNREX 3
Table 4                                                      Page 15 of 15
Data for DSI Components of Proposed Project
New Terkos Lake Pumping Station                                        Omerli Raw Water Pumping Station
Number of pumps to be                                                  Intake Works                 -  Reinforced concrete tower
added                    -   3                                                                         with 15 screened inlet
Pump capacities          -   2 for cast iron pipeline to                                               ports at 4 reservoir levels.
Kagithane, 0.5 af/sec each
at design head of 162 m                  Intake conduit               -  Reinforced concrete conduit,
25 m of 2.65 m square from
-   I for gallery to Kagithane,                                               tower, leading to 100 m of
0.7 m3/sec at design head                                                 3.0 m diameter tu.nnel con-
of 127 m                                                                 necting to pumping station.
Ultimate number of pumps  -  6
Initial number of pumps   -  3
Treatment Plants:  Kagithane and Omerli
Type of pumps               -  Vertical turbine
Design capacity                -  300,000 m3/day                       Pump capacities              -  2.0 m3/sec eac} at 88.9 m
design head
Treatment process             -  Flocculation - clarifica-
tion followed by rapid
sand filtration
Disinfection process          -  Chlorination                        Omerli Clear Water Pumping Station
Water level in inlet Chamber-  Kagithane - 102.5 m                     Ultimate number of pumps  -  6
Omerli - 138.0 m
Initial number of pumps   -  4
Iy,-pe of pumps             -  Centrifugal, horizontal shaft
Kagithane Clear Water Reservoir                                          Pump duties                  -  1.5 m3 each at 16 m design
head
Type               -  Ground level, reinforced concrete
Major Transmission Pipelines
Capacity           -  7,000 m3
length   Diameter
Overflow  level    -  95.5 m                                               Description                       (kmr)      (m)
Duropean System
Bosphorus - Bakirkoy:              3.6        2.00
Kagithane Pumping Station                                                    (Total length 12.4 kmo)           5.3        1.70
3.5        1.85
Number of pumps   -  4
Type of pumps      -  Centrifugal, horizontal shaft                    Asian System
Pup duties         -  0.765 m3/sec each at 56 m design                   Omerli raw water pipeline           1.5        2.20
head
Omerli-Camlica-Bosphorus          11.6        2.20
(Total length 29.0 km)            7.1        2.00
3.6        1.85
6.7        1.60
Tasliturla Pumping Station
Ultimate number of pumps -  6                                            Omerli-Pendik-Cevizli
(Total length 26.4 kon)          15.3        1.40
lnicial installation       -  3                                                                             9.0          .920
2,1        0,90
Type of pumps              - Vertical turbine
Pump capacities            -  0.26 m3/sec each at 89 m                   Pendik-Darica..ebze
design head                                 (Total length 20.6 km)           15.2        0.80
3.7       o.60
1.7        0.35
Gebse Pumping Station
Number of pumps            -  3                                        Bosphorms Submarine Pipeline
lype of pumps              -  Vertical turbine                           Iength           -   1.8 km
Pump capacity              -  0.135 m3/8ec each                          Pipe Details   -   Single line, steel pipe, 0.9 m
diameter with cathodic protection
Note:  Description of DSI project components is given in Table 2.                                                  June 7, 1972






TURKEY                                                          ANNEX 4
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES FOR DSI AND ISI PROJECT CCMPONENTS
PART A - DSI Component                                                TL million                                         US$ million
Local          Foreign           Total             Local           Foreign           Total
European System:
Terkos Lake Drainage Pamping Station               0.5              0.1              o.6               -
Terkos Lake Additional Raw Water Pumps             0.2              0.7              0.9               -                0.1              0.1
Kagithane Treatment Plant Extension               35.0             45.0             80.0               2.5              3.2              5.7
Kagithane Clear Water Reservoir                    4.5              0.5              5.0               0,3              0.1              o.4
Kagithane Pumping Station                          2.3              1.8              4.1               0.2              0.1              0.3
Taslitarla Pumping Station                         1.1              1.0              2.1               0.1              -                0.1
Bosphorus-Bakirkoy Pipeline                       30.7             10.2             40.9               2.2              0.7              2.9
Asian System:
Omerli Raw Water Pumping Station                   7.5              8.0             15.5               0.5              o.6              1.1
Cmerli Treatment Plant                            40.o             45.0 o5.0                           2.9              3.2              6.i
Omerli Clear Water Pumping Station                 5.2              6.0             11.2               o.4              o.4              0.8
Omerli-Camlica-Bosphorus Pipeline                 63.0             40.0            103.0               4.5              2.9              7.4
Storage Reservoirs                                 9.0              1.0             10.0               0.6              0.1              0.7
Telemetering System                                -                1.0              1.0               -                0.1              0.1
Omerli-Pendik-Cevizli Pipeline                    44.o             14.0             58.0               3.1              1.0             4.1
Pendik-Gebze Pipeline                             12.1              6.6             18.7               0.8              o.6              1.4
Gebze Pumping Station                              1.0              0.7              1.7               0.1                               0.1
Darica Branch Line and Pumping Station             1.1              0.6              1.7               0.1              -                0.1
B-sphorus Underwater Pipeline                           8.1             13.2             21.3               o.6              0.9              1.5
Sub Total                                   265.3           195.4            460.7              18.9             14.0             32.9
Land                                                   25.5              -               25.5               1.8              -                1.5
Project Design and Supervision                         30.2              4.3             34.5               2.2              0.3              2.5
Training                                                -                1.0              1.0               -                0.1              0.1
Physical Contingencies                                 55.8             18.5             74.3               4.o              1.3              5.3
Sub Total                                   376.8           219.2             596.o             26.9             15.7             42.6
Price Increases                                        69.7             34.3            104.0               5.0              2.4              7.4
Sub Total for Part A - DSI Component                  446.5            253.5            700.0              31.9             18.1             50.0
PART B - ISI Component
Primary Distribution Pipelines                   126.4             48.o            174.4               9.0              3.4             12.4
Secondary Distribution Pipelines                  84.6              9.4             94.o               6.o              0*7              6.7
Distribution Reservoirs                           11.1              1.2             12.3               0.8              0.1              0.9
Pumping Stations                                   5.4              2.6              8.o               o.4              0.2              o.6
Pressure Reducing Stations                         1.5              0.5              2.0               0.1              -                0.1
Water Meters                                      21.9             20.0             41.9               1.5              1.5              3.0
Service Connections                               28.4              3.2             31.6               2.1              0.2              2.3
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                2.0              o.8              2.8               0.1              0.1              0.2
Relining of Terkos-Kagithane Pipeline              6.4              6.4             12.8               0.5              o.4              0.9
Renovation of Terkos-Kagithane Gallery             4.7              0.3              s.o               o.4                               o.4
Sub Total                                   292.4             92.4            384.8             20.9               6.6            27.5
Project Design and Supervision                         12.5              6.6             19.1               0.9              0.5              1.4
Management Consultants and Training                     1.8               0.5             2.3               0.1              -.
Sub Total                                   306.7             99.5           406.2              21.9              7.I             2q.0
Price Increases                                        68.o             17.8             85.8               4.8              1.3              6.1
Sub Total for Part B - ISI Component                  374.7            117.3            492.0              26.7              8.4             35.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (Part A + Part B)                    821.2            370.8          1,192.0              58.6             26.5             35.1
Note: See Annex 5 for construction schedule.
See Annex 10 for estimated annual expenditure on DSI component.
See Annex 12 for estimated annual expenditure on ISI component.
June 5, 1972






TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1972                   1973                   1974                    1975                   1976
DnlS I CMPQ ENT                                                                           ,,,,,,,,,
EUROPEAN SYSTEM
TERKOS  LAKE  DRAINAGE  PUMPING  STATION___________                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _ _ __    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TERKOS LAKE ADDITIONAL RAW WATER PUMPS
.___________._______                                                                                        FIRST UNIT COMMISSIONED
KAGITHANE TREATMENT PLANT EXTENSION                                                                                                          _EQUIPMENT
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~11111. __ _                                                                 _CI V IL WO RK S
KAGITHANE CLEAR WATER RESERVOIR
KAGITHANE PUMPING STATION                                   Kill                                           EQUIPMENT
_ EEFEsoI                              CIVIL VVORKS_
TASLITARLA PUMPING STATION                                                   l111111 11t - _                                     EQUIPMENT
U Ul                     CIVIL WORKS
BOSPHORUS - BAKIRKOY PIPELINE
ASIAN SYSTEM                                                                                                    EQUIPMENT
OMERLI RAW WATER PUMPING STATION                                       01t  _                        CIVIL WORKS
OMLRLI TREATMENT PLANT
C 0E *L  *   LN                                          _            U~~~~~~~~~~~~"iiEI  -              __.                         CIVIL WORKS
OMEPLI CLEAR WATER PUMPING STAI IONEQUIPMENT
OMERLI  CAMLICA PIPELINE
CAMLICA   BOSPHORUS PIPELINE
STORAGE RFSFRVOIRS
TELEMETERING SYSTEM                                                         II111i19FFA
PENDIK  GFBZE  DARICA PIPELINES                                                                              IIIiii IFII 
BOSPHORUS UNDERWATER PIPELINE                                           IIII  
z
z
ISI COMPONENT                                                     Isu.m.mimmnu.m||iv.um,  mmnm         uhnnI,ai mnuuniuiims,.amimimm immimiIssrininirnEflz
DISTRI BUT ON SYSTEM EXPANSION AND RENOVATIONS                                                                                                                                           X
Iiiiiiiiiiilii DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS      0 - _A_V. SUBMISSION OF RIDS, RID EVALUATION AND CONTRACT AWARD                         CONSTRUCTION AND COMMISSIONING
WolId B.rlk 6740(R)






ANNEZ 6
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursmnts
IBRD Fi-'lsal
Year and Quarter                           Cumulative Disbursements at end
of Quarter
(million US$)
191,1-13
SoqDtmaber 30, 1972
D,     - 31. 1972                                         0.2
gAarh .31, 1973                                           1.1
J.fl .3-0: 1973                                           2.7
q^ptmrer 33, 1973                                         4.1
Dacari6br 31, 1973                                        5.5
XMareh 3i, 197h                                           6.7
Jur3  3J,    1714                                         9.6
.;ptGyflbCr 30, 1974                                     12.4
D-ocomber 31, 19714                                      15.3
-rdch 317, 1975                                          17.9
*Jun  >, 1975                                            20.5
1975/76
ISeptem.ber 30, 1'975                                    23.2
Dicrmbnr 31, 1975                                       25.7
March 31, 1976                                           28.0
June 30, 1976                                            30.7
1976/77
3Mpa-m.ber 30, 1976                                      33 .4
December 3l1, 1976                                       35.8
^S<^-. .31, 1977                                         36.4
T.;un  30, 1977                                          37.0
At31umnpti 0115s
1.        $ 37.0 million Bank loan (7¼ % interest)
2.        Loan made effective September 1972.
3.        Repaynent period for Bank loan of 25 years including five year grace
p orind.
.se9 tn 1 s 97






ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5 pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Projected Water Demand and Water Sales
Water Demand
1.        Future demand is projected in three steps.  First, an estimate of
present demand has to be calculated; supply has been restricted for a long
time, and actual consumption is not an adequate measure of demand. Second,
the likely future increase in per capita demand, as influenced by economic
and social development in the area, ,s estimated. Finally, total demand can
be calculated by the use of a population forecast for the area. With the
many uncertainties involved, the resulting demand projection is not a very
accurate forecast, but the assumptions used are such as to make it seem more
likely that future demand has been underestimated rather than overestimated.
2.        The consultants (DAMOC), who drew up the master plan for water
supply in the Istanbul urban region, studied demand extensively, and carried
out a number of surveys to get data on which to base their estimates.  Among
those studies were interviews with a random sample of 400 consumers from ISI's
'general consumers' register, a special survey of 125 consumers in sub-areas
where a 24-hour supply existed at the time, interviews with 30 customers who
in the recent past had been given a house connection, and 256 interviews
1:74th persons in the entire urban nrea who deDended on public fountains for
their water supply. Further, they made a special study of ISI's large cus-
tomers and had access to a DSI study of major industries in the area and
their water use (whether from ISI or from other sources). On the basis of
these investigations the consultants adopted the following assumptions: If
there had been a 24-hour supply of water of adequate quality available in
Istanbul in 1965, the water consumption would have been
a)   about 40% higher than actually observed for the
'general consumer' category with house connections;
b)   about 50% higher than actually observed for those
who were dependent on public fountains;
c)   about 20% higher than actually obs-rved for commercial
and public consumers; and
d)   10-15% higher than actually observed for industrial
consumers.
Using these assumptions, per capita demand figures for 1965 were calculated
for subdivisions of Istanbul Municipality (kazas) and for the various sepa-
rate communities in the area. Using 1965 as a base year these figures were
then projected into the future taking into account the likely rate of improve-
ment of housing in various areas, future rises in incomes, etc.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5 pages
3.        Figures for per capita demand as calculated by the consultants have
been used here together with the most recent population forecasts--obtained
from thie Greater Istanbul Master Plan Bureau--to arrive at a projection of
total demand. The results are in Table 1 and also in Diagram 1 at the end
of this Annex.
Table 1 - Projected Population and Water Demand
1965    1970    1975    1980    1985
Istanbul    population (million)  1.74    2.11    2.51    2.94    3.33
Munlici.alzlty        lcd3           128      145      162      181      196
million m /year        81      112      149      194     239
Rest of      population (million)  0.37    0.65    0.94    0.26    1.60
urban region         lcd3             60       86      109     129      150
million m /year         8       20       37      59       88
Total        population (million)  2.11    2.76    3.45    4.20    4.93
lcd3           116      131      148      165     181
million m /year        89      132      186     253      327
4.         To help put the projected figures in a perspective, Table 2 shows
the underiying growth rates, assuming fixed rates for each five-year period.
Table 2 - Growth Rates Used in Projection
(percent per annum)
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85         1970-85
Populatfon,
Inetan boI (million)       3.8        3.6        3.2        2.6           3.1
PopulaLlon , Total
region (million)           5.5        4.5        4.0        3.3          4.0
Per CaT)ita Demand,
Istanbul (lcd)             2.5        2.2        2.2        1.7           2.0
Per Capita Demand,
Rest of urban region       2.5        2.4        2.3        1.8           2.2
The mnost important parameter is the rate of growth of population in the area;
the 4.0% per annum established for 1970-85 can be contrasted with an urban
growth rate between 1950 and 1965 of almost 6% per annum nationally and over
5% per annum in the Greater Istanbul area. 1/ As the degree of urbanization
1/   This is a planning area comprising Istanbul Province plus Gebze District
in Kocaeli Province, and is thus larger than what is referred to as the
Istanbul urban region in this report. The Istanbul urban region is
de2ined in Annex 3, page 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5 pages
is still moderate in Turkey (about 35% in 1970) and population growth nation-
aily has been rapid (2.6% per annum on average in the 1960's) further rapid
urban growth can be expected. The growth rate assumed here for the Istanbul
urban region does not, therefore, aeem to be excessive. Distribution of future
population between Istanbul Municipality and the other communities in the
area is harder to estimate, but this parameter is of limited importance after
the first five years or so, when an integrated regional water supply system
can be expected to have evolved.
5.        Increases in per capita demand are based on the premise that in-
creasing household incomes will lead to improved housing standards and
thence greater usage of water, e.g. house connections in areas now served
only by standpipes, toilets and showers in houses that now have only one
or two faucets, etc. The rates of increase in the table do not then seem
excessive, when compared with the record of growth of per capita real GNP
in Turkey which is over 3% per annum; in addition, data seem to indicate
that the growth rate in Istanbul has been higher than the national average.
Available projections of future growth indicate similar rates in the fore-
seeable future.
6.        The demand projection has been made without introducing price as
a variable; the implied assumption is that the total demand will not be ap-
preciably influenced by possible price variations within the likely range.
This is a common assumption, and in view of the fact that little water is
used for sprinkling in the area at present (this usage is usually thought
to be the only one that is markedly price-sensitive) it seems reasonable
to adopt it.
Water Sales
7.        Estimated water sales by ISI 1/ are illustrated in Diagram 1, at
the end of this Annex. There is a large discrepancy between these sales and
projected demand, which is explained by two factors. One is the existence
of other sources of supply, both municipal and private, in the area besides
ISI's. The volume supplied from these (groundwater) sources is estimated
to have been about 15 million m3 in 1965 and somewhat larger in 1970. The
future of these supplies is uncertain, but it is known that there is very
little possibility of increases in production. So as not to overestimate
the likely ISI sales it has been assumed that a volume of the current order
will continue to be drawn from these other sources.
8.        The other factor is demand that cannot be met.  Until new sources
come into operation in 1972 on the European side and in 1975 on the Asian
1/   Strictly speaking, the estimate is of total retail sales of water from
ISI's sources; it is assumed that at least for some years part of this
will be sold through municipalities which buy water in bulk from ISI.
Explicit assumptions of retail and wholesale water sales by ISI are
outlined in Annex 13 for each year to 1980.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5 pages
side restrictions of source capacity are the overriding constraint. After
that it will be the weaknesses of the distribution system that will limit
sales; not all potential customers will be reached, and there will be insuf-
ficient capacity to handle the new larger volumes. The extent of these con-
straints and the time it will take to alleviate them is not known with preci-
sion, but for the purpose of the sales projection it is assumed that signi-
ficant physical restrictions on sales will exist until after 1980.



Page 5 of 5
DIAGRAM 1
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF POPULATION, WATER DEMAND AND ISI SALES
5,000                                                                                                           500
/
4,000                                                                                                           400
Po pPa t ionl
Isktanbul
a      Urban Area
atlshn0 m3frt7,If thePopulation
IstanbaI
rather thanaIncreseInhisvoMunicipalety xp
3.000                              4   I          ___ ___ __ ___           #                                    300
/                   -  ~~~~~~~~4               Si Saint
3  The volum  gven for II  sales In the urbanIstanbul Urban Area
l  sales of water from  ISI sources It IsWater Demand                                               <
I      1                                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stanbul 
of this will be sold through muni       which buv water IM.nicnpalty
b
2,000                                                                                                           200~
0                                  Water Demand                       : "
Istanbul          4
-J                       ~~~~~~~Urban Area  1            IA
4.    St Sales
2                                               lbIstainbul M--icp.abty
$4014~~~~~~~~~~~~
1965                1970                 1975                1980                1985             1990
1 .Popialat-o fnt 1970 ann water sales ter 1965- t1971 ar actIal
2. In- addition so supplies from ISI there are also ether --oicPal
and pri-at supplies in the area The total at thes  Is est-mated
as Iess than 20 millio   _3 tnt 1970. -n the tuu-e a decra-
rather than an increas  In Chit -1-a   is eopected.
3. The upue - ne for 191 tales in the urban area is the tonai
IretIl saleW or  ater from  ISI --rcs It is asumd that som
of this -ill he sold throgh muncipalitie  wh,ich bay wat- in
b,ulk from  SI                                                                     Word EBank (3760(R)






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7 Pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic Justification
The Program
1.        The project for which Bank lending is proposed can be described as
a "time slice' from an ongoing investment program, comprising broadly those
elements which can be committed and substantially completed by DSI and ISI
during the five year period 1972-76. The project must thus be seen as an in-
tegrated part of a larger program, and cannot be given a meaningful indepen-
dent justification. It is not even a simple case of sunk costs, where the
project would reap benefits from past investment, for the full benefits of
several of the project elements can in turn only be reaped after complement-
ary investment has been made outside the project, e.g. in further distribu-
tion system exnansion.
2.        I'he apDropriate program, the merit of which must be established, is
the one begun in 1966 by the development of three new sources by DSI (see An-
nex 3). At the start of this program all existing sources were fully utilized
and no significant reserves of capacity existed in transmission or treatment
facilities. The only prior investment which will contribute to additional be-
nefits in the future is thus the one in the distribution systems of the commu-
nities. The cost of all distribution facilities existing at the beginning of
the program has to be reg.arded as sunk, because there is no possible way of
separatin-, benefits attributable to the use of existing distribution facili-
ties as opposed to new ones. The effect of this is theoretically to over-
state somewhat the net benefits attributable to the program investments, but
the distortion is likely to be minor in view of the fact that existing water
systems are wholly inadequate for the future quantities of water.
3.        Thie program comprises all investments needed to utilize fully the
capacity of the new sources. Projections indicate that this capacity will be
sufficient to meet demand until 1985, and 1984 is therefore taken to be the
last year for Lnvestments to be inclu(led in the program. As the next source
is liklely to be an entirely new one (present indications are that it will be
Kuicukeelmece lake) a situation will then have been reached again where there
is no significant excess capacity in existing sources, treatment and trans-
mission facilities.  The distribution system will again provide the unavoida-
hle link with thie future, giving rise to an effect opposite to the one dis-
cussed in paragraph 2. As the effect does not occur until 15 years from now,
however, it will be dliscounted heavily in the calculations and is thus not
likely to influence appreciably the outcome of the test of the merits of the
program.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7 pages
Program Costs
4.        The capital costs of the program are the best available estimates
of the investment expenditures to be incurred by the various agents (DSI, ISI
and municipalities). House connections are excluded as they are being paid
for directly by the consumers. An allowance is made for physical contingen-
cies. No correction for indirect taxes or duties has been deemed necessary
as no significant indirect taxes exist, and practically all the investment
will be made by institutions that are exempt from most duties (DSI and ISI).
The exchange rate of the Turkish Lira is generally regarded as being an equi-
librium one, and no shadow pricing of labor is considered warranted in the
Istanbul area. Prices at the end of 1971 have been used; actual expenditures
in years preceding that date have had to be inflated to have all costs ex-
pressed in constant prices. 1/
5.        The future arrangements for water supply in the communities outside
Istanbul Municipality are still surrounded by some uncertainty. Here it has
been assumed that ISI will sell water only in bulk, on a wholesale basis, to
these communities. Consequently, the investments projected for ISI in the fi-
nancial tables take into account secondary distribution only inside Istanbul.
A notional TL 10 million annually has been added for such investments in the
rest of the area, for which no explicit plans are known.
6.        The recurrent cost associated with the program is the difference be-
tween the total expenditures for operation and maintenance incurred in the fu-
ture by ISI and the other operating agencies (if any) and those same expendi-
tures as they would have been in the absence of the program. It is assumed in
the calculations that total estimated future recurrent costs can be attributed
to old and new facilities in the same proportion as pre-program water sales to
additional sales. Operating and maintenance expenditures by ISI are given in
Annex 13. For the other operating agencies the assumption has been made that
they will have the same expenditures for secondary distribution per m3 as ISI.
Recurrent costs are expected to grow with the volume of water produced by pro-
gram sources until 1985, after which they remain constant in real terms.
7.        The above costs are the straightforward ones which are directly re-
flected in the financial accounts of the agencies involved in the program. In
addition to these, however, there are social costs associated with the program
1/   The following annual rates of price increases have been used (see also
paragraph 4.15 of the main report):
1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 and on
(Constrit-tion costs     Go   9    22  1.i  14   1G. 1 _
Recurrent costs (also
for converting rates)         5?'   6Z   87  107  107  87"  63



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7 pages
which are external to ISI and other agencies, the most important being the
likely negative environmental impact of the increased amounts of waste water
which will be created in the region, where collection and disposal facilities
are already totally inadequate. It might be argued that in the long run this
is not something negative, but rather the necessary first step in the creation
of a comprehensive water-borne waste disposal system which will be of great
benefit, but until the remaining steps are taken (and it is not known when
this will be) nuisances will definitely increase from over-flowing septic
tanks, leakage from holding tanks and sewage flowing in open ditches. It is
also arguable that once a minimum level of water consumption has been reached,
further quantities are not necessary for waste disposal and will only in-
crease the cost of the sewerage system. On balance, it seems clear that the
program will have a genuine social cost of this kind, but it is currently
not possible to quantify and value it in monetary terms.
Program Benefits
8.        The benefits of the program fall mainly into three categories, name-
ly:
(a)  The benefits which individual consum.ers (including industries
etc.) will derive from the additional water that becomes avail-
able;
(b)  cost savings to individual consumers by obviating expenditure
they now have to incur to get watcr at all;
(c) the benefits to society at large of the availability everywhere
in the area of an unlimited supply of safe water.
In addition, the reservoirs in the program will provide some protection from
floods and thus create benefits not only for water supply, For this reason
ISI will only pay DSI about 90% of the full construction cost of the Alibey
and Omerli dams.  It has not been deemed justified, however, to use this ad-
ministrative cost sharing formula to derive any measure of the likely flood
protection benefits and thus these are not taken into account in the calcula-
tions here. As the full costs of these dams are included as program costs,
the consequence of not including flood control benefits is to slightly un-
derstate the rate of return.
9.        The revenue from additional sales that ISI and other possible re-
tail agencies will make as a result of the program is a minimum measure of
the direct benefits of the first category. A certain theoretical complica-
tion is caused by the fact that some revenue is derived from municipalities
who pay for the water which is given free of charge at public hydrants, as
this is not a direct indication by consumers of a willingness to pay such an
amount. These hydrants will not disappear overnight as a consequence of
the program, and one must assume that some of the initial increase in consump-
tion will be of water drawn from them. On the other hand, the program will
permit a gradual phasing out of the hydrants and thus lead to a situation
where the quantity distributed in this way is smaller than it would have been
in the absence of the program. As the total quantities of water involved are



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7 pages
not very large anyway, it is assumed here that the second effect at least off-
sets the first one and that all revenues from increased sales can be properly
included in the benefit measure.
10.       Revenues as shown in the financial tables have to be adjusted for
the distortion caused by inflation, which causes some peculiar problems for
the rate of return calculations. It is not sufficient just to apply the in-
flation factor mentioned earlier in connection with the costs, as this would
lead to an underestimate of the value of the water sales. This is because
the past and projected future water rates (from the start of the program
period in 1966) are held constant for more than one year in several periods.
In real terms this indicates that the revenue derived from selling "the same"
water is declining in each of these periods, but there is no reason to accept
that this reflects any fall of the real benefits derived by the consumers.
The (conservative) correction which has been made here is that whenever real
price is falling only that part of the increment in sales volume which is due
to an increased per capita consumption is valued at the new actual price,
while the rest of the volume is valued the same way as the year before, i.e.
each portion of the average customer's consumption is valued at the highest
real price he has at any time in the past shown himself willing to pay for it.
11.       The financial projections only cover the period up to 1980.  It has
been assumed that the water charges for the rest of the period will remain
fixed in real terms at the 1980 level. Future water rates based on finan-
cial requirements have further only been projected for ISI and not for the
other retail agencies. It is assumed in the calculations that the retail
rate in the future will be uniform throughout the urban area; currently the
actual rates vary and are higher than ISI's in some communities and lower in
others.
12.       Cost savings to consumers will arise in two ways.  First, the need
will be virtually eliminated to buy water from private vendors, who now supply
water at very high unit cost both to households and some industries (see An-
nex 2). Second, households now incur large costs for storage arrangements
to augment the supply that can be drawn from the water system, which will
become unnecessary when continuous pressure can be maintained in all parts
of the system.
13.       DAMOC found in its surveys in 1967 that almost half the households
with house connections and most families who depended on hydrants bought part
of their water from vendors. Judging from this and statements by DSI officials
it is safe to say that at least half the households in the area now incur ex-
penditures of this kind. DAMOC found in 1967 that typical households would
spend TL 3 - 10 per week for this water, and considering the inflation that
has prevailed since then an average outlay of TL 5 per week for those house-
holds that buy water at all seems a conservative assumption. Given at pre-
sent some 500,000 households in the area, one would then finve 25(1),)()ps sTd-
ing TL 260 annually to buy water, which gives a toal. ariiirIja  out JIy of ii1 l,
million.  In comparison with this, the otutlays for I irul.it r 1:1 %uupp] I I 1lifJ .-
limited and will be disregarded.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7 Pages
14.       The effect of the program should eventually be the virtual elim1ina-
tion of these sales as it can be assumned that the luxurv consumpt ton of ktt t led
water for the sake of taste onlv will he verv sria1l .  It :Zoeom  liCIv tl lt
there will be a gradual reduction, as the population becomes convinced that
piped water supplies are safe, and as the distribution system is being extend-
ecl an(! standpipes eliminated.  The assumption made for the calculations is
that this outlay will remain constant in real terms from 1972 when the supply
on the Eurovean side is improved, and that it will be reduced to practically
zero over a five year period beginning in 1976 when an abundant supply will
exist in all the area. Tn the absence of the program the outlay would reason-
ably increase rapidly over time; for calculation purposes it is assumed that
this rate would be the same as for noloulat'on increase in the area.
15.       Th1e water supply deficit in Istanbul is so large now that ISI offi-
cials state that trost families moving into new homes with a water connection
wnuld be paying for a roof tank or similar arrangement. This may be the case
for some 40% of the total number of new families in the area each year, or
about 10,000 families. With an estimated cost of TL 1,000 for each arrange-
menit, the total cost for one year would be about TL 10 million. The assump-
tion has been made that the investment would continue in the absence of the
program, at the TL 10 million/year level, a sum that then notionally also
covers whatever renewal and maintenance -may be necessary during the entire
calculation period.  With the program or. the other hand it is assumed that
sucIh investment will be halved from 1972 and that it will disappear entirely
fron 1976.
10.       The benefits measured by revenues *rom water sales are only the
ones wjhich accrue exclusively to those individuals who consume the new water.
In addition to these, there are benefits to society at large from an improved
and increased water supply generally.  Typical examples mlight be a reduced
frequency or severity of epidemics xvhen hygienic standards can be increased,
and reduce(d fire losses when adequate flows in the street nmains become avail-
able to the fire brigade.  These benefits are not easily quantifiable how-
ever, and, more important, it is virtually impossible to separate them pro-
perly from those benefits which are in principle already reflected in the in-
dividual's payments.  No suchi attempt is made here.
17.       Illustrative oF the above is the case of the 1970 cholera epidemic
in Istanbul, which has b)een linked with contaminated water supplies.  Tihe di-
rect impact was 1,185 confirned cases as reported bv WhO and at least 52
deaths.  in addition, cholera is generally regarded as one of the negative
factors that caused a sharp decline in 1970 of the rate of growth of tourists'
visits to Turkey.  Similarly, Bulgaria closed its borders for two weeks to
all Tt'irkish traffic, alleging fear of cholera, which led to the loss of about
),000 tons of mandarin and grape exports from Turkey, valued at almost US$1
myilion.



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7 pages
Internal Economic Rate of Return
18.       The costs and the benefits discussed above have been used to cal-
culate the internal economic rate of return for the full water supply expan-
sion program 1966-84. Costs and benefits have been taken into account for a
45 year period from the beginning of the program. Details of costs and bene-
fits, expressed in end-1971 prices, are given in Table 1. On this basis, the
internal economic rate of return is 10.6%.  If one regards program expendi-
tures through 1971 as sunk costs (and measures program costs and benefits
starting in 1971), one gets an internal economic rate of return for the in-
vestment program 1972-1984 of 14%.
Sensitivity Tests
19.       The internal economic rate of return for the program as calculated
above is quite stable for reasonable changes in the assumptions. It decreases
less than one percentage point (i.e. remains above 9.67) for each of the fol-
lowing variations:
-    capital costs from 1972 on are increased by 15%
-    recurrent costs from 1972 on are increased by 15%
-    water sales from 1972 on are 10% lower than projected
-    project completion is delayed by one year.



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7 pages
Table 1: Economic Costs and Benefits, Water Supply
Expansion Program 1966-of4
(TL million in end-1971 prices)
-----------Oosts -----------      ----------Benefits-----
Cost
Year             Capital   Recurrent   ibtal    Water Use   Savings   Total
1967                 22           -        22          -           --
1968                112           3      115           5           -         5
1969                139           8      147          12           -       12
1970                110          11      121          16           -       16
1971                155          20      175          25           -        25
1972                242          38       280          9           8        57
1973                268          56       324         71          11        82
1974                269          64       333         87          14      101
1975                267          84       351        117          17       134
1976                186         100      286         157          41      198
1977                107         114      221         197          59       256
1978                123         127      250         242          77      319
1979                156         139      295         280          91      371
1980                157         147      304         320         104       424
1981                 95         154      249         344         107       451
1982                 95         160      255         369         111       480
1983                 95         165      260         395         114       509
1984                 95         172      267         423         117       540
1985-2011 1!          -         179      179         454         121      575
Internal rate of return = 10.6%
1/ Although the program is assumed to be fully completed by 1985, and thus
physically every year from then on is the same, measured benefits from
water use - and thus total benefits - continue to grow slightly for a
number of years due to the way the correction for inflation is made in
the calculation (see paragraph 10). Thus the final level which total
benefits reach is actually 583 from 1990 onwards.
June 9, 1972






ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5 pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY roJEcT
Organization oi ISI
Legal Background
1.        The Istanbul Water Administration (ISI) was established by statute
in 1933 when the Government acquired the privately owned Torkos Water Company
which operated in European Istanbul. In the rame year ISI acquired the oper-
ating responsibility for the Vakif Sular (reliiUous water - see Annex 2)
from Istanbul Municipality and in 1937 it acquired the Uskudar and Kadikoy
water system in Asian Istanbul. The preJent leg!al base of ISI is contained
in two specific acts relating to ISI and in three general acts. 1/
2.        There is considerable ambiguity and there nre conflicting provi-
sions in the laws governing ISI, and so its prwers and authority in some
areas are difficult to define. This appears to have been a general problem
for statutory companies as the "State Commercial Agcncies and Interagency
Cooperation Acts" of 1964 made provision for state companies to apply for new
enabling acts and, as an interim measure, granted them considerable power
and authority. However, ISI failed to secure a revised act and is still
operating under its original statutes together with temporary powers received
in 1964.
3.        The water supply program now underway (Annex 3) gives rise to an
important jurisdictional question. The sources are intended to supply the
Istanbul urban region and are to be transferred to ISI.  Additional water
1/   Law 2226, 1933:  Law concerning the Formation of the Istanbul Water
Works Administration.
Law 3359, 1938:  Law concerning the Purchase of Uskudar and Kadikoy
Water Privileges.
Law   23, 1960:  The Structure Administration and Supervision of State
Commercial Agencies.
Law  440, 1964:  State Commercial Agency and Interagency Cooperation.
Law 1053, 1968:  Law concerning Domestic and Industrial Water Supply to
Ankara, Istanbul and other cities with population over
100,000.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5 pages
supplies will be available from the Terkos-Alibey system in mid-1972, some
of which might be made available to municipalities outside Istanbul. How-
ever, ISI has no legal authority to distribute water outside Istanbul Muni-
cipality, except by individual contracts with other municipalities. No such
contracts exist at present, although two municipalities presently receive
supplies from ISI (see Annex 1, paragraph 20). The only course of action at
present available to ISI is to make contracts with outside municipalities
for the sale of water on a wholesale basis.
Relationship of ISI to Istanbul Municipality
4.        ISI was established as a legal entity "attached to the Municipality
of Istanbul" (Law No. 2226 of 1933). Although financially autonomous and
relatively free from interference, ISI has nevertheless been subject to control
by the Municipality as follows:
(i) review of the annual accounts and budgets;
(ii) appointment of auditors to verify the financial
operations and to report to the Municipality;
(iii) nomination of three of the four directors; and
(iv) review and approval of water rates.
This control by the Municipality is more nominal than real. The review of
accounts and budgets is superficial and the appointment of directors is
subject to the approval of the Ministry of Interior. The Municipality did
exercise its power over water rates by delaying approval of, and reducing,
rate increases. However, the provision of Law 1053 that "the water price
list shall be approved of by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
before being applied" indicates that the Municipality no longer has a role
in setting water rates.
Organization
5.        The governing body of ISI is a four-man Board of Directors.  Three
of the members, including the General Director, are nominated by the Mayor
of Istanbul and approved by the Minister of Interior. The fourth member of
the Board is elected by the employees of ISI. (This position has been vacant
for some years as the qualifications of the last person elected to the post
have been challenged in court.) The General Director is chairman of the
Board and chief executive officer. The three other members are full-time
Directors.
6.        The present organziation of ISI is shown on the chart at the end
of this Annex. Although the three Assistant General Directors are nominally
responsible for the 20 operating departments, in fact each department reports



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5 pages
to the General Director and operates independently from all other departments.
This lack of coordination seriously reduces the efficiency of the organiza-
tion. Construction activities are undertaken by several departments (con-
struction, distribution, transmission and treatment plants) and operating
responsibilities are blurred at various facilities. At Elmali, for example,
operating staff of four departments (dams, treatment plants, plants and
repair shops and transmission mains) lack direction. Overstaffing is a
consequent problem.
Distribution Department
7.        The distribution department is the largest within ISI, employing
about 800 people or 30% of total staff, and is of particular importance.
This department's responsibilities include:
- all extensions to the distribution system, which in the past
five years involved the laying of an average of 60 km of pipe
per annum;
- repairing all leaks in the distribution system;
- operating valves to ration water throughout the system;
- disconnecting and reconnecting consumers for the non-
payment of account; and
- removing and replacing meters for testing.
The department has ten distribution districts with field offices throughout
Istanbul and three repair districts. The head of the department and his
assistant are engineers and the department's only professional staff. They
are required to authorize routine operations and supervise the many activi-
ties of the district offices. The records of the existing distribution
system are inadequate and only one draughtsman is assigned to this task.
The repair service, which urgently needs to be strengthened to reduce the
high percentage of unaccounted for water, requires more direction. It is
obvious that this department requires additional technical staff and im-
provements in its organization.
Personnel Law
8.        In 1970 the Government enacted the Personnel Law which applied to
state and semi-state organizations including ISI. Under this law the wages
and fringe benefits of workers were substantially increased, in some cases
almost doubled. As a result ISI's wages and salary costs in 1971 were 60%
higher than in 1970 (although staff increased by less than 5%).



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5 pages
9.        This Law also established new salary scales for engineers which
were lower than the previous scales and introduced a salary standstill until,
by increased service, the present salary would come into line with the new
scales.  In addition the promotional opportunities for engineers were re-
duced. The 34 engineers in ISI, who form the major part of the senior man-
agement and technical staff, have had their salaries frozen during a period
of rapid inflation while non-professional staff have secured substantial
increases. In consequence the moral of the engineers has been lowered. One
partly to its location is the heart of Turkey's most important city, however,
ISI is still a relatively attractive employer and experts to be able to re-
cruit sufficient engineering staff to carry out the expanded program.
Billin& System
10.       ISI has at present more than 240,000 customers, all of whom are
metered. Bills are delivered by collectors, an operation which is effec-
tive but expensive. The collection performance (cash collected as a percent-
age of billings) in 1970 was 100%. The accounts receivable represent over
9 months revenue, but about 40% of this is due from central and local gov-
ernment authorities. Long delays between meter reading and presentation of
accounts to customers, which has become traditional, is responsible in part
for the domestic receivables. An active policy of disconnecting domestic
customers who do not pay is in operation. The billing system has considerable
duplication but substantial improvements have been made in the last year. One
serious deficiency has been the lack of adequate fire protection for accounts
receivable and meter records, but ISI expects to remedy this problem in the near
future.
Water Rates
11.       Four rate increases have been implemented since 1961, the last on
January 1, 1971. Prior to this, the water rate charges were TL 0.93 per m3
for customers with consumptions under 30 m3 per quarter and TL 1.53 per m3
for customers with consumptions over 30 m3 per quarter. The present water
rate is TL 1.73 (US$0.123) per m3 for the Istanbul mainland and TL 4.00
(US$0.285) per m3 for the Princes' Islands. This last rate increase is
equivalent to a weighted average increase of 25% based on 1970 sales patterns.



ISTANBUL WATER ADMINISTRATION (ISI) ORGANIZATION CHART
CUSTOMERS  CIVIL                     GE~~rCTO SIG  N                                    RAMN             LN
SYSTEM                  MAINSRAI
|    DIRECTOKS    l
R                                 AIIT1 -A3TGNEA
DIRCO                                                  G    EALDRCTRIOR 
I 1t1~~~~~~~~~~~~t bl ITAIN                                     IIECO I                                       IITECHNCAL
HJ | COF F ESFDNDENCE | 1 S 1 19 H L 3 E H 19 i1
ON                                                                                               VA.1 I -AT-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
<  A]                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'n1>
TRANSMISSION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vold9nkS2






TURKEY                                                       ANNEX 10
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTD4ATED AIPIUAL EXPENDITURES OW DSI PROGRAM, 1967-1977
Total
Year Ending February 28:            1967-1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977         1973-1977
-__________       ------TL million---------------- -----------
I PROJECT EXPENDITURES
European System:
Terkos Lake Drainage Pumping Station                                -       0.6     -        -       -        -           o.6
Terkos Lake Additional Raw Water Pumps                              -       -       -        -       0.9      -           0.9
Kagithane Treatment Plant Extension                                 -       -       8.0    32.0    28.0    12.0          80.0
Kagithane Clear Water Reservoir                                     -       4.o     1.0      -       -        -           5.0
Kagithane Pumping Station                                           0.4     2.5      1.4     0.2     -        -           4.1
Taslitarla Pumping Station                                          -       -       1.1      1.0     -        -           2.1
Bosphorus-Bakirkoy Pipeline                                         -       -        -      26.7    14.2      -          40.9
Asian System:
Omerli Raw Water Pumping Station                                    0.8     7.5     8.0      -       -        -          15.5
Omerli Treatment Plant                                              -       -       8.0    35.0    30.0    12.0          85.0
Omnerli Clear Water Pumping Station                                -        0.5     9.5      1.2     -        -          11.2
Omerli-Camlica-Bosphorus Pipeline                                  2.0    45.0    48.o    10.0       -        -         103.0
Storage Reservoirs                                                  -       -      10.0      -       -        -          10.0
Telemetering System                                                 -       -       1.0      -       -        -           1.0
lmerli-Pendik-Cevizli Pipeline                                     -        -       -        5.0    30.0    23.0         58.0
Pendik-Gebze Pipeline                                               -       -       -        -       6.7    12.0         18.7
Gebze Pumping Station                                               -       -       -                -        1.7         1.7
Darina Branch Line and Pumping Station                              -       -        -               -        1.7         1.7
Bosphorus Underwater Pipeline                                            -       4.3    17.0                                  21.3
Sub Total                                                     3.2    64.4   113.0   111.1   109.8    62.4          460.7
Land                                                                     -       1.0      8.6     6.8      9.1     -          25.5
Project Design and Supervision                                           -       4.8      8.5     8.3      8.2     4.7         34.5
Training                                                                 -       0.2      o.4     0.4      -       -            1.0
Physical Contingencies                                                   -       5.0    14.4    20.7    21.7    12.5           74.3
Sub Total                                                     3.2    75.4   144.9   147.3   148.8    79.6          596.0
Price Increases                                                          -       1.0    16.7    29.0    36.9    20.4          104.0
SUB TOTAL OF PROJECT EXPENDITURES                             3.2    76.4   161.6   176.3   185.7  lO1.o           700.0
II OTHER PROGRAM EXPENDITURES
European System:
Terkos Lake Dune Stabilization                                      1.5     0.1     o.6      0.7     -        -           1.4
Terkos Raw Water Pumping Station                                    9.4     1.9     -        -                            1.9
Terkos Lake Enlargement and Terkos-Alibey Diversion Works          16.1     6.o     1.0      -                            7.0
Terkos-Alibey Prestressed Concrete Pipeline                         5.0 
Alibey Dam                                                         50.7    12.9    10.0    10.0      8.8      -          41.7
Alibey Raw Water Pumping Station                                   16.6     2.3      -       -       -        -           2.3
Alibey-Kagithane Prestressed Concrete Pipeline                     17.0     3.0      -       -       -        -           3.0
Kagithane Treatment Plant Additional Clarifier                      1.2     -       -        -       -        -           -
Bakirkoy Water Supply System                                        4.9     -        -       -       -        -
Sagmalcilar Water Supply System                                    2.3      -       -        -       -        -
Kagithane-Bomonti Steel Pipeline                                   12.5     -       -        -       -        -           -
Bomonti-Kustepe-Levent Steel Pipeline                               3.7     5.6     -        -       -        -           5.6
Kagithane-Munzevi Steel Pipeline                                   14.7     5.0      -       -       -        -           5.0
Kagi-hane-Kustepe Pipeline                                                  -        -       -       -        4.5         L.5
Cathodic Protection for Steel Pipelines                             -       0.5     -        -       -        -           0.5
Land                                                               14.4     0.5     2,5      2,0     2.9      -           7.9
Asian System:
Omerli Dam                                                         46.4    20.0     7.0      3.0     -        -          3C.0
Omerli Intake Structure                                             3.3     3.4      -       -       -        -           3.4
Land                                                               27.1     1.0      9.1    10.2     -        '7.2       27.5
Tuzla Prestressed Concrete Pipe Factory                                 33.4    23.2      3.8     1.2      -       -           28.2
Sub Total                                                   280.2    85.4    34.0    27.1    11.7    11.7          169.9
Project Design and Supervision                                          22.0     6.3      1.9     1.3      0.9     0.3         10.7
Physical Contingencies                                                   -        3.0     3.0     2.5      2.0     1.0         11.5
Sub Total                                                   302.2    94.7    38.9    30.9    14.6    13.0          192.1
Price Increases                                                          -       -        5.4     6.8      4.1     4.6         20.9
SUB TOTAL OF OTHER PROGRAM EXPENDITURES                     302.2    94.7    44.3    37.7    18.7    17.6          213.0
TOTAL PROGRAM EXPENDITURES                                             305.4   171.1   205.9   214.0   204.4   117.6          913.0
June 5, 1972






TURKEY
State Hydraulic Works (DSI) - Region XIV (Istanbul)
Cash Flow Statements
Actual               _-_-----___--_-_-_------ __________________________Estimated.------------.--------_-_--_-------_______________
YEAR ENDING FEBRUARY 28th                              19b7/72        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977      197377        197        1979        1980        1981       1973/81
I  Total                                                        Total
---------------------------------------- ------- -     --- ----- TL   M illion-------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                                            l
ISI's Advance Payments                               -            9.4       53.6        82.0        71.6        49.4      266.0               -           -                 -          266.o
Government Funds                                   289.4        160.7      149.3       132.0       134.8        86.2      663.O        16.3        39.6        90.6       111.4        920.9
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable             16.0          1.0         3.0        -          (2.0)      (18.0)      (16.0)       1.5         2.5         5.5        (9.5)       (16.o)
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        305.4       171.l       205.9       214.0       204.4      117.6       913.0        17.8        42.1        96.1       101.9      1,170.9
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project Expenditure                                  3.2         76.4      161.6       176.3       185.7       100.0      700.0         _     -           -                 -          700.0
Other Programn Expenditure                         302.2         94.7       44.3        37.7        18.7        17.6       213.0         -          - _                     -          213.0
Program Expenditure after 1976                       -            -           -           -          -           -           -          17.8       42.1        96.1       101.9        257.9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                   305.4       171.1       205.9       214.0       204.4       117.6      913.0        17.8        42.1        96.1       101.9      1,170.9
SUMMARY OF DSI's CONSTRUCTION COSTS                             SCHEDULES OF COMPLETED WORKS TRANSFERRED TO ISI                          SCHEDULE OF TRANSFER OF COSTS TO ISI
DSI Property                     -----TL Million -----                                              Depreciation                                                            ISI's
Date       Expenditure         of        Total                                    Government  Advance
Pipe Factory at Tsuzla        62.9                                                               Pipe Factory-                              Date             Loan      Payments   Total
___________TL Million------------                        T- ____M_illion
Alibey Daw (117A of Cost)      13.6                                 Jan. 1, 1973      107.9            3.7       111.6                   Jan. 1, 1973        111.6         -       111.6
merli Dam (1W4 of Cost)       13.7                                  Jan. 1, 1974       68.9            1.3        70.2                   Jan. 1, 1974        45.2         25.0      70.2
Sagmalcilar Scheme              2.3                                 Jan. 1, 1975       14.3            -          14.3                   Jan. 1, 1975        10.0          4.3      14.3
Training                        1.0        93.5                     Jan. 1, 1976      204.6            5.9       210.5                   Jan. 1, 1976       160.5         50.0     210.5
Construction for ISI                       1,382.8                     Jan. 1, 1977      729.2           26.9       756.1                   Jan. 1, 1977        569.4       186.7      756.1
Total Construc1ion Costs                1,476.3                     Jan, 1, 1979       99.9             -         99.9                   Jan. 1, 1979         99.9         -         99.9
July 1, 1980      158.0            -         158.0                  July 1, 1980        158.0         -        158.0
1,382.8          37.8      1,420.6                                    1,154.6       266.0   1,420.6
j  Bank funds for work to be undertaken by DS1.
2/  Entimated costs for transmission system to Princes' Island6 and extensions to Cmerli treatment plant
and pumping stations (including allowances for price increases).
j   This charge represents the estimated depreciation of the DSI Taz1a pipe factory for the manufacture
of prestressed concrete pipes on behalf of ISI.
June 7, 1972






TURKEY                                        ANNEX 12
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL EXPENDITURES ON ISI PROGRAM, 1972-76
Total
I  PROJECT EXPENDITURES        Year ending December 31:   1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1972-76
I PROJECT EXPENDITURES 
------------    TL million-------------------
Primary Distribution System                         29.0    33.2    37.4    37.4    37.4       174.4
Secondary Distribution System                       12.0    16.4    20.8    22.4    22.4        94.o
Distribution Reservoirs                               3.4     3.6     0.8     2.0      2.5      12.3
Pumping Stations                                      1.0     1.0     -        3.0     3.0       8.0
Pressure Reducing Stations                            -       -       -       1.0      1.0       2.0
Water Meters                                          6.4    12.0     7.6      7.4     8.5      41.9
Service Connections                                  4.8      6.o     6.4     7.2      7.2      31.6
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                  -        0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7       2.8
Relining of Terkos-Kagithane Pipeline                 -       -       4.0     8.8      -        12.8
Renovation of Terkos-Kagithane Gallery                -       -       2.0      3.0     -         5.0
Sub Total                                      56.6    72.9    79.7    92.9    82.7       384.8
Project Design and Supervision                       2.8      3.6     4.o     4.6      4.1      19.1
Management Consultants and Training                   O.3     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5       2.3
Sub Total                                      59.7    77.0    84.2    98.0    87.3       406.2
Price Increases                                      0.6      8.7    17.9    28.1    30.5       85.8
Sub Total of Project Expenditures              60.3    85.7   102.1   126.1   117.8       492.0
II OTHER PROGRAM EXPENDITURES
Elmali Treatment Plant and Pumping Station            1.8     -       -       -        -         1.8
Expansion
Elmali Dam Repairs                                    2.0     -                - _               2.0
Buildings                                             1.5     1.5     1.6      1.6     1.5       7.7
Oftice Equipment and Vehicles                        1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5       7.5
Sub Total of other Program Expenditures         6.8      3.0     3.1     3.1      3.0      19.0
TOTAL PROGRAM EXPENDITURES                                  67.1    88.7   105.2   129.2   120.8      511.0
June 5, 1972






TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER ADMINISTRATION (ISI)
Income Statements
__-__----- Act-1l_ ---------    -_--- -------__--_--_-----------__-------_----Estimated-----------_-_---_____    -----     --_______----------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st                  1968       1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       19Th       1977       1976       1979       1980
Water Produced (i3 million)                88.1       95.8      103.2      104.9      128.0      i46.8      155.0      177.0      211.0      238.0      264.o      289.0      315.0
Retail Water Sold (m3 million)             58.7       62.5       64.7       68.9       83.0       91.9       94.4      104.3      118.1      133.2      148.0      161.9      177.3
Wholesale Water Sold (a3 million)           -          -          -          -          -          5.0        9,2       i6.8       27.7       33.5       40.0       47.7        54.3
Total Water Sold (m3 million)              58.7       62.5       64.7       68.9       83.0       96.9      103.6      121.1      145.8      166.7      188.0      209.6      231.6
I Unaccounted Water                        33         35         37         34         35         34         33         32         31         30         29         27         26
Number of Connections (thousands)         180        200        221        242        265        288        309        329        347        364        382        400        419
Retail Rate per m3 (TL) /                   1.53       1.53       1.53       1.73       1.73       1.73       2.25       2.34       2.34       2.68       2.94       3.03        3.03
Wholesale Rate per m3 (TL)                  -          -          -          -          -          o.80       1.04       1.08       1.08       1.24       1.36       1.40        1.40
-T-----------------------------------_ ---------TI Millions___-______________________________________________________
REVENUE
Retail Water Sales                      80.4       92.2       92.0      120.3      140.7      164.3      210.5      241.6      275.0      353.3      430.6      471.0      515.8
o/
Wholesale Water Sales -                  -          -          -          -          -          3.9        9.4       17.7       29.3       40.7       53.3       63.6       72.4
Meter Rent                               1.0        1.0        1.0        1.1        1.6        2.1        2.5        2.9        3.3        3.6        4.0        4.4        4.8
Miscella-eous                            5.4        5.8       11.6        7.2        6.2        6.6        7.2        7.9        8.6        9.3        9.9       10.6       12.4
To+al                               86.8        99.0     104.6      128.6      148.5       176.9     229.6      270.1      316.2      406.9       497.8      549.6      605.4
OP3RATING COSTS
Wages and Salaries                      30.4       33.9       36.9       58.9       65.4       74.6       83.2       91.7       99.9      109.4      120.1      132.0      145.0
fuel and Power                          15.4       15.5       18.3       23.9       36.9       53.8       57.6       72.5       78.2       88.0       96.8      105.5      113.3
Materials and Chemicals                  3.7         4.2       5.4        3.0       12.5       16.1       18.5       22.4       21.1       23.9       28.3       32.1        37.0
Miscellaneous Rxpenses                   4.6        9.1       10.8       10.0        7.5        8.8       10.6       12.1       13.7       15.7       17.9       20.1       16.0
Total                                54.1       62.7       71.4     100.8      122.3       153.3     169.9      198.7      212.9      237.0       263.1      289.7      311.3
Income before Depreciation                 32.7       36.3       33.2       27.8       26.2       23.6       59.7       71.4      103.3      169.9      234.7      259.9       294.1
Depreciation                                 5.7        7.1       7.4         8.3       11.9       16.6      21.2       25.0        33.4       54.8       62.3       72.5       84.7
Net Operati.ng Income                      21.0       29.2       25.8       12.5       14.3         7.0      38.5       46.4       69.9      115.1       172.4      187.4      209.4
In-erest                                          -          -          -               -           -         -           -          -        18.8        37.0      -36.0       35.1
Net1 Income/Loss                           27.0       29.2       25.8       12.5       14.3         7.0      38.5        46.4      69.9        96.3     135.4       151.4      174.3
Capit-l Contribution                        6.9        1,5        o.4         2.0       2 0         2.0       2.0        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
Revaluation of Assets                        -          -                     -          -          -          -          -          -          -        113,4      127.1      i46.6
Net Addition to Equity                     33.9        30.7      26.2        21.5       16.3        9.0      40.5        48.4       71.9       98.3      250.8      280.5      322.9
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets         13.0        16.R       13,2        9.3        6.0        '.0         .3        .1         8.1        8o         8.9        8.6        8.4
l/t A reduced rot.e foe clastomora wdt - low cons-uptizn woo in tptratitn for tie three years 1)6d/70.
Re-ail water tales incl,de small volume ..ld cc thc Princes' I.lands at rates 131< greater than standari r                  attil coces.
I/ A deductio, of 2%  ,f -'ross revenue was made tsr bad Debts from 1972  -swee-.
June 12, 1971






TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER ADMINISTRATION (ISI)
Cash S'low Statements
-Actual----           -------------------------------------       --------E          ---r---------------------------------------------- ----
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st                         1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      Total       1977     197b      1979      1980       Total
1.972/1976                                         1972/1960
--------------------------------------------------_______TL Million------------------___________________________________-___--------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net ICcome (before Interest)                   27.0     29.2      2j.8     19.5      14.3       7.0     38.5      46.4     69.9      176.1      115.1    172.4    187.4    209.4         860.4
Depreciation                                    5.7      7.1       7.4       8.3     11.9      16.6     21.2      25.0      33.4      108.1      54.8      62.3      72.5     84.7       382.4
internal Cast Generated                   32.7      36.3     33.2      27.8      26.2     23.6      59.7     71.4    103.3       284.2      169.9    234.7    259.9    294.1    1,242.8
Customers' Connection Charges                  -         -         -         -        5.0       6.8      7.8       9.3       9.8       38.7      10.4      11.0      11.5      12.1       83.7
Municipal Tax                                   6.9      1.5       0.4       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       10.0        2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0        18.0
Total Capital Contribution                 6.9       1.5       O.4      2.2      '7. 0      8.8      9.8      11.3     11.8       48.7       12.4      13.0      13.5     14.1       101.7
Long Term Debt,
Bank Loan                                       -        -         -         -        2.8      74.2    137.2    145.6    i4l.4        501,2       16.8      -         -         -        518.0
Governunent Loan                                -        -         3.7      17.8     49.0      65.4       9.7      -         -        124.1        -       39.5                 -        163.6
Total                                      -         -         3.7     17.8      51.8    139.6    146.9    145.6    141.4        625.3       16.8      39.5       -        -         681..6
TIOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                   39.6      37.8      37.3     47.6      85.0    172.0    216.4    228.3    256.5        958.2      199.1    287.2    273.4    308.2    2,026.1
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditu-e
Project Expenditure                             -        -         -         -       60.3      85.7    102.1    126.1    117.8        492,o        -        -         _         _         492.o
Advance Paynents t o DSI                        -        -         -         -        1.4      47.6      84.0     75.6      57.4      266.0        -         - _      _                   266.O
Other Program Expenditure                      30.3     23.7      16.6      39.6      6.8       3.0       3.1      3.1       3.0       19.0        -         -        _         _          19.0
Program Expenditure from 1977                   -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -        130.0    138.0    145.0    154.0         567.0
Total Capital Eapendit-re                 3°.3      23.7      16.-     39.6      68.5    136.3    189.2    204.8    178.2        777.0      130.0    138.0    145.0    154.0    1,344.0
Debt Service
Anortization - Bank Loan                        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -          -          5.7      12.0     13.0      13.9        44.6
_ r,ove rnmen t                   -        -         -                                                                    _ -  -  -  --  26.0  52.0    52.0      52.0       182.0
Total Amortization                         _         _         _        _         _         -         _        -         _          _         31.7     64.0      65.0      65.9       226.6
Tntere.t - Rank Loan                                                                            4.2       7.0     15.4      26.6       53.2       35.6      37.0     36.o      35.1       196 9
Total letb Service                         _         _         _        -         _         4.2       7.0     15.4      26.6       53.2       67.3    101.0    101.0    101.0         423.5
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital
(excluding cath)                                2.3     11.1      12.6      14.0     12.9      32.6       4.7      2.8      31.9       84.9       37.0      48.9      20.9     17.8       209.5
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FPNDS                32.6      34.3      29.2      53.6     31.4    173.1    200.9    223,0    236.7         915.1      234.3    057.9    266.9    272.8    1,977.0
Cash S-plus (Deficit)                              7.0       3.0      o.1      (6.1)      3.61.1)    15.5              5.3      19.8      43.1      (35.2)    (0.7)       6.5      35.4        49.1
Cans, Balance a, end of year                      37.7      4(.       8  42._3 _         46.4   45.3        60.8   t6.1    '(5.9            -         50.7     50.0      56.5      91.9         -
Debt Service Coverage                              -         -         -        _         _         5.6      3.5       1.6       3.9        5.3      1.5        2.S       "6        2.9         2.9
I.' Esimtated costs for ex-ension ,f distributio n oystes  inclu,iio  allowance nD, price increases).
dine 7, 1972






TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER ADMINISTRATION (ISI)
Balance Sheets
__________ Actual ---------      --~----------------------------------------- Estimated___________________________________________-
196g      1969       1970       1971       1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980
DECEMBER 31st                                      ------_--_------------------------------------------TL Million----------------------_-----_--__-----------_-- _----_--------_
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                       220.9     257.5      271.5      299.1      354.i      555.7     733.5      860.7   1,204.4   2,097.9   2,355.9   2,736.3   3,201.2
Less Aceurulated Depreciatios                    58.4      65.5       72.9       81.2       93.1     109.7      130.9      155.9      189.3      244.1      321.0      413.4      523.5
Total Fixed Assets in Oper.tion            162.5      192.0      198.6      217.9      261.0     446.o      602.6      704.8   1,015.1   1,853.8   2,034.9   2,322.9   2,677.7
Work in Progress                                 34.5       21.6      24.2       36.2       43.3       39.4       36.2      58.6       63.0       62.0       57.0       55.0       60.0
Advance Payments to DSI                           -          -          -         -          1.4       49.o     108.0      179.3      186.7                   -          -          -
Total Net Fixed Assets                     197.0      213.6      222.8      254.1      305.7     534.4      746.8      942.7   1,264.8   1,915.8   2,091.9   2,377.9   2,737.7
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories                                      18.7      21.8       27.7       25.5       32.0       38.0      40.0       44.o       48.o       50.0       54.0       60.0       65.0
Accounts Receivable                              59.7       69.5       87.9     109.5      120.0      150.0      157.0     160.0      190.0      230.0      280.0      300.0      318.0
Cash                                             37.(       4.7       48.8       42.8       46.4       45.3       60.8      66.1       8S.y       50.7       50.0       56.5       91g9
Total Current Assets                       116.1      132.0      i64.4      177.8      198.4     233.3      257.8      270.1      323.9      330.7      384.o      416.5      474.9
TOTAL ASSETS                               313.1      345.6      387.2      431.9      5o4.1     767.7   1,004.6   1,212.8   1,588.7   2,246.5   2,475.9   2,794.4   3,212.6
LIABILITIES
Eqjit y
Equity                                          170.2      171.7      172.1     218.3      220.3      222.3      224.3      226.3     228.3      230.3      343.7      470.8      617.4
Accua,,lated Reserves                            35.1       35.1       35.1      35.1       35.1       35.1       35.1       35.1       35.1       35.1      35.1       35.1       35.1
Accurulsted Earnisgs                             27.0       56.2       82.0     101.5      115.8      122.8      161.3      207.7      277.6     373.9      509.3      660.7      835.0
Total Net Equity                           232.3      263.0      289.2      354.9      371.2      380.2     420.7      469.1      541.0      639.3      888.1   1,166.6   1,487.5
LONG 1ERM DEBT
Bank Loan                                         -          -          -          -         2.8       77.0      214.2      359.8      501.2     512.3      500.3      487.3      473.4
i;ovSrcmen' Loa.,                                 -          -          3.       21.5       70.5      247.5      302.4      312.4      472.9   1,016.3   1,003.8   1,051.7   1,157.7
Elak BRank Loan                                  44.2       44.2       44.2             -          -          -          -         -          -                -          -         -
Total tong Ter- Debt                         44.,      4',.2      47.9       21.5       73.3      324.5      516.6     672.2      974.1   1,528.6   1,504.1   1,539.0   1,631.1
CURRENT LIATTLITIES
Tecosils                                         12.0       12.6       11.8       13.2      14.6       16.0       17.3       i8.5       19.6       20.6       21.7       22.8       24.0
Acco.-ts Payable                                 74.6       2s5.       3 .3       42.3      45.0       47.0       52.3       53.0       s4.o       58.0       62.0       66.D       70.0
Total Clrrent Lisbilities                    36.6       38.4       50.1      95.5       5y.6       63.0       67.3       71.5       73.6      78.6       83.7       88.8       96.0
TOTATL LIABIITTTES                          313.1     345.6       08!.2     431.9      504.1      (67.7   1,oo4.6   1,2K2.8   1,588.7   2,21i6.5   2,475.9   2,794.4   3,212.6
Contingent Liability for DSI W-ok                    0.0      110.0      170.0      260.0      400.2     440.0      530.0      580.o      61o.0       14.0       54.o      100.0        -
Debt:Equ1ity RSri                                    16 84 144:3          i4:86       6:94    1i,:84       46:54      55,45     594,t      64:34      71: 2      63:37      57:43      52:48
Yo-e 5, 1977



---



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 4 pages
TURKEY
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
NOTES ON ISI FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENTS
1.   GENERAL
Figures for the income statements and balance sheets for 1968
through 1970 are based on the published accounts of ISI. Adjustments have
been made in order to present the information in accordance with standard
accounting practice. These accounts have not been audited by qualified
auditors.
2.   WATER SALES
Details of the factors considered in estimating future water sales
appear in Annex 7.
3.   REVENUES
The water rates in operation in March 1972 were:
Istanbul (Other than Princes' Islands) TL 1.73 per m3
Princes' Islands                         TL 4.00 per a3
The following rates per m3 were assumed:
1972/73  1974  1975/76  1977  1978/79/80
-TL----------------
Retail Rates
Istanbul Mainland               1.73   2.25    2.34   2.68       2.94
Princes' Island                 4.00   5.20    5.40   6.20       6.80
Wholesale Rates
Outside Municipalities          0.80   1.04    1.08   1.24       1.36
Percentage increase              -     30       35     55        70
on all rates over
1972 rates
A deduction of 2% of gross revenue was made for bad debts.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4 pages
It was assumed that all future meters would be the property of
ISI and that meter rent would be charged to all consumers.
The miscellaneous revenue in 1970 included interest on cash de-
posits of TL 4.0 million. It is not expected that such interest will be
earned in the future.
4.   OPERATING COSTS
Operating costs have been escalated in accordance with the follow-
ing assumed annual rates of inflation in Turkey:  1972 - 10%, 1973 - 8%, and
1974/80 - 6%.  The inflation rate was compounded annually.
The wages and salaries costs are based on projections of future
staffing requirements for daily paid workers and professional staff.  Provi-
sion was made for annual wage increments and for wages increases that will
become effective during 1972 but the 10% inflation factor was not applied
to these costs in this year. The increase in costs during 1971 (about 60%)
results from the National Personnel Law of 1970 which provided substantial
increases in wages and fringe benefits for workers.
The fuel and power costs are based on projected consumption by
pumping stations. The price of electricity was increased by about 50% in
September 1971.
The cost of materials was assumed to increase in proportion to
water produced. The cost of chemicals was calculated by using the projected
volume of water to be treated together with the expected method of treatment.
In 1976 treatment costs are expected to decrease since the Alibey Dam should
be completed, thereby reducing the turbidity of the water from the Terkos-
Alibey system.
Miscellaneous expenses include the cost of transporting water to
the Princes' Islands, which should be discontinued in 1979 when the pipeline
crossing is completed.
5.   DEPRECIATION
ISI uses the diminishing balance method (% of net book value) of
depreciation but the straight line method (% of original value) was used for
the projections from 1971. The following annual rates of depreciation were
used:
Land                     Nil         Treatment Plants       4%
Secondary Distribution   2%          Pumping Equipment    5%
Primary Distribution      2%         Bosphorus Crossing   5%
Buildings                 2%         Meters                10%
Dams                       2%        Vehicles              15%



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 4 pages
6.   MUNICIPAL TAX
This is the proceeds of a tax for improving the water supply sys-
tem collected by the Municipality of Istanbul on behalf of ISI.
7.   CUSTOMERS' CONNECTION CHARGES
ISI requires its customers to pay the full cost of installing
house connections and on completion the connection becomes the property of
the customer.
BALANCE SHEETS
8.   FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION
Fixed assets are shown at historical values up to 1977 and revalued
at 6% per annum for 1978 through 1980. Household connections, which are paid
for by customers, have not been capitalized, but were included in the program
costs. Interest during construction on the Bank loan was capitalized. It
was assumed that the transfer of completed source works and associated debts
from DSI will take place in accordance with the schedule in Annex 11.
9.   ADVANCE PAYMENTS TO DSI
This represents the Bank funds paid in respect of work undertaken by
DSI less the funds involved in completed work transferred to ISI. (Annex 11).
10. INVENTORIES
By law ISI is required to maintain one year's stock of materials,
so inventories have been projected to increase in proportion to the increase
in ISI's activities.
11. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
The accounts receivable in 1971 represented over 9 months revenue.
It was projected that this position would gradually improve so that the
accounts receivable in 1980 would represent about six months revenue.
12. ACCUMULATED EQUITY
Accumulated equity has been increased by the annual capital con-
tribution made by the Municipality of Istanbul, by the transfer of the Emlak
Bank Loan of TL 44.2 million in 1971, and the net increase in asset value
resulting from revaluation from 1978 through 1980.



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 4 pages
13. EMLAK BANK LOAN
The obligation for the repayment of this loan has been assumed by
the Government of Turkey in accordance with the 1970 Budget Law.
14. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
Accounts payable in 1970 represented about 6 months operating costs
and this position is projecte& to change gradually so that by 1980 they will
represent about 2 months operating expenses.
15. CONTINGENT LIABILITY FP M9 D& WORK
These amounts represrUithe value of work completed by DSI on be-
half of ISI and financed by Government funds, but not yet transferred.
Legally ISI's liability for-tht&u debt will not become effective until the
completed works are transferred;.-



MAP
ISTANBUL~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ WAE SUPL P "JWh:,-.E;     W GTCi  = ES:
i     \/       \Rr..r.  Tdr4ot  '   s    *  .,                                                                      L  
tSt  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W.'d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
L.ke                   00 b 1U,00            R
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~By~;   SakaoCkLok       PAE    V    I   N         ; 2a,                                        -   -\(
; A t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STANEMUL .AE:5PL WET      ;    ir= 
ffi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~4 ,100 ,10 P.2009s             .p,k g.vrl   \C    0   C                     A    E    LI
0   0   ,p   20   iO   .          :                 B          U         R         S        A               \~~60 0220 
ISA4U    ?RV?C                                            '              rogzl    aE\
x- r.00    0  'P000 ,    - '                                                                          p ,A 5 ___  _ "o'-      _,
'. P,      $100   i        A    N .....O........  f ..b h ol
. l    0000010,000P0000     0                                                  0,04aZe
poo000   60000 e0 ls5 5dSi'|29                                    
-91    197   -9i -  00,  f00200   2001O






MAP   2
W           >                                                                                         0   ;   s__.e   \       t *Et}--ff-s         ;r-              s   r  [5- AlyosCAIARAA 
t         \   :urk   /            be,G  r          X TotW                         a    .&  U                          :IY,, 
A        t     rr                      fdlsC   trb A
-V ~          ~            '''v '00                                     ,   -l o                            y'
A ~     ~       ~        A/1   Dff'U'D             n               t                   vst 
X~~~~~~~~~                                                             Donof           '                          t> \/                                                                                               /
i                         T. u  R  Ic ''(F,,oP K/                                                               A
~~-  ; 0  'P  bd        '    S     A/b y  400         0                 .   /48                                                        200             |     $.                4./                           \
40  ;,  t  . ffbhresd : t \ | l W - 0                                          0400
WA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Gocoroo  '0Ao f                                                 4  ,s
K,,>~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             :,,-t                                                          ."  ;,j   _ 
AP21t~~~~~      ~ 1972e



