Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28632
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant agreement
(In-Situ Conservation of Genetic Diversity Project)
[Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project]
between
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated March 25, 1993
GET GRANT NUMBER 28632
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and 
in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project, as 
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"MOF" means the Recipient Ministry of Forestry, or any successor thereto;
(d)
"MARA" means the Recipient Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, or 
any successor thereto; and
(e)
"MOE" means the Recipient Ministry of Environment, or any successor 
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred ten thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,710,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in a freely convertible currency a special deposit account in its Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOF, MARA and MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate gene conservation practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
Page  4
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
           (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
      (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade of the Recipient 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
Disticaret Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
     MALIYE-HAZINE
821-42285 (MLYE-TR)
821-24689 (ANK-TR)
Rapifax:
Page  5
90-4-2128737
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
                   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United State of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Michael Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   GET Grant Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Civil works
   250,000
88%
(2)
Goods
 1,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 90%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants'
       1,240,000
100%
services and
Page  6
training
(4)
Transport and              130,000
88%
accommodation
(5) Recurrent costs
   190,000
67%
and labor
TOTAL
 3,710,000
2.
 For the purposes of this Schedule: 
     (a)
 the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
 the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
 the term "transport and accommodation" means the local transport and per 
diem costs of staff incurred in the carrying out of the Project;
(d)  the term "recurrent costs and labor" means the cost of operation and 
maintenance of goods purchased under the Project and utilized in the carrying out 
thereof, together with the cost of labor employed in the carrying out of surveys and 
inventory work. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to establish and manage In-situ gene 
conservation of globally significant herbaceous and woody species.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
(1)  genetic resources survey of selected sites and designation of gene management 
zones; (2) gene resource inventories and identification, establishment, management and 
monitoring of gene management zones in Western, South-Central and South-Eastern 
Anatolia; (3) development of a national plan for in-situ conservation of wild crop 
relatives and woody species; and (4) strengthening the institutional capabilities of 
the Borrower's departments and agencies involved in gene conservation to ensure their 
effective collaboration in the planning, establishment and management of gene 
conservation, through the provision of training, technical assistance and specialized 
equipment.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
Page  7
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods comprising vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of US$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Trustee.
2.
Civil works comprising the installation of fencing may be procured by force 
account, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Transport and accommodation for local staff, local labor and operation and 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment may be procured through direct negotiations with 
the suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and equipment estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making 
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Overall responsibility for the supervision of the carrying out of the Project 
shall be assigned by the Recipient to a national steering committee to be maintained 
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank and to comprise representatives of MOF, 
MARA and MOE and of MOF's and MARA's research departments and regional institutes.
2.
Responsibility for the carrying out of the Project shall be assigned by the 
Recipient to MOF and MARA in respect of Parts (1), (2) and (4) thereof and to MOE in 
Page  8
respect of Part (3) thereof, in accordance with arrangements agreed with the Trustee. 
In order to facilitate proper coordination of the activities of MOF, MARA and MOE of 
the Project, the Recipient shall maintain, under terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank, a Project Implementation Committee comprising representatives of the staff of 
MOF, MARA and MOE involved in the carrying out the Project.
3.
The Recipient shall: (a) employ or cause to be employed consultants with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference agreed with the Bank, in order to 
assist in the carrying out of the Project; (b) maintain a scientific advisory 
committee, comprising a panel of experts with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference agreed with the Trustee, to provide technical guidance to the Recipient's 
staff involved in the carrying out of the Project; and (c) ensure that the training 
under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs and criteria for 
the selection of candidates thereunder agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US Dollars 
400,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify. 
    (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  9
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
