Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2162-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYS IA
FOR A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
November 3, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency             =   Malaysian dollars (M$)
US$1                 =   M$2.50
M$1                  =   US$0.40
M$1 million          =   US$400,000
*The exchange rate is floating close to the rate used
in this report and is indicated in this table.
ABBREVIATIONS
DOA    - Department of Agriculture
FELDA - Federal Land Development Authority
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
GNP    - Gross National Product
ICA    - Industrial Coordination Act
MARDI - Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
RETDC - Regional Extension Training and Development Center
SMP    - Second Malaysia Plan, 1971-75
TMP    - Third Malaysia Plan, 1976-80
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAI tISE ONLY
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Malaysia
Amount:            US$19.0 Million
Terms:             17 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% per annum.
Project            The project would strengthen agricultural extension
Description:     services by:   (i) increasing the number of field level
staff and regularizing their in-service training throughout
Malaysia; (ii) constructing and strengthening pre-service
training facilities in Sabah and Sarawak; (iii) providing
135 man-years of graduate and undergraduate fellowships,
(iv) providing vehicles, equipment, housing, offices and
storage facilities for extension services; and (v) provid-
ing about 78 man-months of consultant services. The
project would also provide for the improvement and expan-
sion of seed production, processing and marketing facil-
ities at federal and state crop production centers; it
includes 31 man-years of training fellowships and 24
man-months of consultant services for seed development.
Estimated
Costs:                                    Local     Foreign    Total
----- (US$ million) -----
Civil works               8.6        5.6      14.2
Equipment and vehicles     0.6       4.3       4.9
Operating expenditures    11.0        -       11.0
Technical assistance       0.1       0.6       0.7
Fellowships                -         2.3       2.3
Total base cost         20.3      12.8      33.1
Physical contingencies    1.1        1.4       2.5
Price contingencies       6.1        4.8      10.9
Total project cost      27.5      19.0      46.5
Estimated                   Fiscal years           Annual        Cumulative
Disbursements:          (July 1 - June 30)   disbursements    disbursements
------- (US$ million) --------
1978               0.5               0.5
1979               3.2               3.7
1980               6.4              10.1
1981               5.3              15.4
1982               3.0              18.4
1983               0.6              19.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Procurement
Arrangements:            Civil works contracts estimated to amount to
US$400,000 or less will be awarded after competitive
bidding in accordance with Government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; civil works contracts
above US$400,000 will be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Bank financed equipment and vehicles will be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The Bank guidelines would also
be used for technical assistance and consulting
services. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the comparison of bids.
Rate of Return:            25%
Consultants:               For extension planning and the planning and design of
seed processing facilities; for developing a pilot
soil conservation scheme; for improving agricultural
credit facilities for Sabah and Sarawak and for
improving the operation and maintenance of farm
machinery (Sabah). Estimated consultant services
cost per man-month: US$5,750.
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 1555a-MA, dated October 26, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$19.0 million to help finance the
National Extension Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report is "Malaysia:   New Perspective and the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), dated October 21, 1977. Detailed data
on Malaysia's economy are shown in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past and,
in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP, 1971-75). The per capita
income of US$860 (in 1976) is among the highest in Southeast Asia. Public and
private investment activity was stepped up and, as a result, economic growth,
which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased during the SMP to 7%.
During the Second Plan the proportion of agricultural households in poverty
in Peninsular Malaysia was reduced from 68% to 63%. Progress has been made
in reducing the economy's dependence on rubber, and the manufacturing sector
has performed well, in terms of output, employment and exports. With a high
export component in GNP, the country is very vulnerable to external fluctuations,
which were significant during the SMP. In spite of the increased investment
activity and resulting current account deficits in the balance of payments,
Malaysia managed to maintain a strong external position during the SMP with
relatively low debt service payments and growing international reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good past performance, there are still substan-
tial racial inequalities in income and employment, generally correlated with
racial background and considerable poverty remains, especially in the
countryside. The inferior income position of the Malays is related to this
concentration in traditional smallholder agriculture and the complementary
meager ownership of corporate assets; and Malays are poorly represented in
the modern industrial sector, especially in managerial, professional,
supervisory and clerical occupations. These inequalities have threatened the
stability of the country and in 1971 prompted the Government to introduce a
New Economic Policy, which is designed to achieve national unity through the
two-pronged objective of eradicating poverty and restructuring society to
eliminate the identification of race with economic function.
5.        The Government recently initiated the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP,
1976-80). In addition to reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy,
the TMP stresses that national unity as well as social and economic progress
can only be achieved in an environment of security and order. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980 (which would mean reducing poverty among agri-
cultural households from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the



modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of 32% towards the
1980 goal of 50%); and (c) to increase the share of Malays in the equity
ownership of the corporate sector (from a share of 8% in 1975 to 16% in 1980).
6.        One of the principal means set out in the TMP to reduce poverty is
to raise agricultural production. In the Third Plan one quarter (M$4.7 billion)
of total public development expenditures is allocated to this sector (compared
with 22%, or M$2.1 billion, in the SMP). Of this more than one-third will be
spent on increasing productivity in existing agricultural areas. In addition,
one million acres of new land are scheduled for development. As a means of
reducing poverty, the TMP also provides for improved housing and other
essential services for the poor in both rural and urban areas. The TMP also
stresses that greater attention will be given to improving the less developed
states in Malaysia.
7.        The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth. The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum. The
investment rate, in real terms, is projected to increase from 18% to 19.5%
of GDP, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion, in current prices, over
the TMP period. Public development expenditures were set at M$18.6 billion,
with a higher level of M$20 billion targeted if resources became available.
8.        During 1976, a substantial increase in exports together with low
investment activity led to an almost unprecedented balance of payments per-
formance. Significant increases in exports, both in prices and volumes,
particularly of oil exports, combined with moderate import increases resulted
in a current account surplus equivalent to 6.2% of GDP. Despite a reduction
in market borrowing by the Government, as well as a fall in net corporate
investment, reserves increased by US$900 million. At the end of 1976, gross
official reserves were the equivalent of about seven months of imports.
9.        Current projections of oil exports and export prices in general
are higher than those used as a basis for the TMP. Therefore, the resource
outlook for Malaysia is now much brighter than was forecast in the Third
Plan. Overall export earnings during the Plan period should be about
US$5 billion more than was forecast in the TMP. Largely as a result of this
increase, public sector revenues are also expected to be higher by about
US$3 billion. The likelihood of these additional resources has prompted
the Government to increase its TMP target for development expenditures to
M$20 billion, and if implementation constraints are overcome an even higher
target could be set.
10.       The outlook for private investment is much less favorable.    Recent
Government action in this area appears to be having adverse consequences. The
Industrial Coordination Act (ICA), passed in 1975, enforces the Government's
equity and employment restructuring targets through a system of licensing of
existing and new firms above a certain minimum size. The ICA is just now



- 3 -
beginning to be implemented, so it is too early to make an informed judgment
as to how it will be implemented at the enterprise level, including what the
timetable of achieving the restructuring conditions will be. Nevertheless,
this extension of Government control appears to have had an unsettling effect
on the investment climate and, combined with the worldwide slowdown of economic
growth, was no doubt a significant cause of the substantial deterioration in
the rate of private investment in 1975 and 1976.
11.       During the next five years Malaysia's balance of payments should be
in substantial surplus. The cumulative current account surplus could amount
to over 5% of GDP compared to a negligible current surplus in the previous
five years. Since such a current account surplus would be sufficient to
provide for an adequate level of reserves, capital inflows may moderate in
the future. At present about 19% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is
from the Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat by the early 1980s.
Reserves are also expected to continue to increase slowly, while the debt
service on public obligations is likely to remain at its present level of
4-5% of export earnings. In this light, Malaysia appears to be an excellent
credit risk.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       Over a period of 29 years, the Bank has made 37 loans to Malaysia
for projects in education, population, agriculture, forestry, industrial
finance, power, water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways,
roads and urban transport. The proposed project follows up on the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project, financed under Loan 1115-MA of May 1975, which
includes commodity oriented and other research programs related to smallholder
farming, and, through the establishment of an Extension Liaison Unit in the
Extension Branch of the federal Department of Agriculture (DOA), promotes the
efficient transfer of research results to the state Departments of Agriculture.
After initial delays, particularly in the international recruitment of research
scientists for MARDI (the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute). implementation of that project is improving. The implementation
period will probably extend beyond the six years planned initially; moreover,
after realizing that initial targets were overly ambitious, the fellowship
program for the research component was reduced slightly from 286 to 275 man-
years and that of internationally recruited scientists from 104 to 81 man-years.
13.       The execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been
satisfactory, although disbursements have been slow in a few cases.     As
of August 31, 1977, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
US$682.5 million. In addition, the Bank made a loan in 1965 to the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore (Loan 405-MA), guaranteed by Malaysia, to
finance the Johore River Project. The amount held by the Bank under that
loan, as of August 31, 1977, was US$3.8 million. Thirteen loans have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 4 -
14.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is consistent with and supports the
country's policies to eliminate racial and geographical imbalances in income.
The Bank will continue to provide assistance to Malaysia's agricultural
programs, including land development, rehabilitation and settlement, and
improvement of production in low income farming areas, all of which are
effective means of reducing unemployment and income disparities. We also
intend to continue to assist in financing infrastructure development,
providing increasing support for improvements in low-cost .irban services and
housing for the poor, as well as for transport projects that improve links
between producers and markets. In the course of its lending operations and
its sector work, the Bank has helped the Government to prepare projects, and
has also helped to strengthen public agencies responsible for carrying out
important parts of Malaysia's development program. Last April, with the
assistance of UNDP, we launched a major effort to strengthen the Government's
project preparation capacity, providing 19 technical advisors over the next
few years to assist key federal and state planning and functional agencies.
In the next few years loans are planned for projects involving irrigation,
rural development, land settlement, education, and such infrastructure
sectors as transport and power.
15.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of August 31, 1977 amounted to US$1.55 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
16.       The agricultural sector maintains an important position in the
Malaysian economy in spite of the rapid progress which is being made in the
development of manufacturing and services. The sector generates 30% of Gross
Domestic Product, provides employment for over half of the economically active
population and accounts for about 60% of the country's total exports. Agri-
cultural production is thus largely oriented towards world export markets,
in which Malaysia occupies a predominant position in natural rubber and palm
oil. Expansion of rubber exports in the 1960s in the face of declining
prices was achieved by large gains in productivity. At the same time crop
diversification, mainly into oil palm, was vigorously encouraged and has
resulted in Malaysia becoming the world's largest producer of palm oil.
Paddy production has doubled through the provision of irrigation, and Malaysia
is now nearing self-sufficiency. Malaysia is also an exporter of pineapple.
Other major crops such as coconut, cassava, groundnuts, coffee, cocoa, sugar,
fruits and vegetables are grown mainly for domestic consumption.
17.       While Malaysia is relatively prosperous, the agricultural sector
still includes a large number of smallholders, particularly of rubber,
coconut and paddy, among whom the incidence of poverty rises above
75% (Peninsular Malaysia). In the early 1960s the Government began to
resettle the landless rural unemployed and marginal smallholders on new land
cleared from virgin jungle and planted with oil palm and rubber. Land
settlement programs are to a large extent carried out by the Federal Land



- 5 -
Development Authority (FELDA), and the Bank has assisted in the financing of
the Jengka Triangle, Johore Tenggara and Keratong land clearing and settlement
schemes. FELDA is currently developing about 100,000 acres and settling
about 7,000 families annually. Other land settlement programs for small-
holders are being undertaken by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Authority
and by state organizations. Also in the 1960s irrigation systems were
improved and enlarged to introduce double cropping in smallholder paddy
producing areas, two of which   (the Muda and the Kemubu irrigation schemes)
were financed under Bank loans. However, settlement programs and large-scale
irrigation schemes can only deal with a relatively small number of people and
cannot by themselves alleviate rural poverty throughout Malaysia. Furthermore,
the availability of virgin jungle for large-scale land settlement schemes is
limited, at least in Peninsular Malaysia, particularly if the needs for soil
and forest conservation are fully taken into account. Areas considered
feasible for large-scale new development for irrigation are also limited.
18.       Therefore, increasing attention is being given to improve the lot
of the majority of smallholder farmers who depend on rain-fed agriculture or
who could be served by small-scale irrigation schemes, such as those included
in the Bank-financed National Small-Scale Irrigation Project. Smallholder
farmers are also being assisted under area development schemes, through the
Bank-financed Western Johore and North Kelantan rural development projects.
The productivity and incomes of the farmers is further being improved through
national programs aimed at development-oriented agricultural research, as under
the Bank-financed MARDI project, as well as through improvement in extension,
extension training and seed production as proposed under this project.
Agricultural Extension
19.       Under the Malaysian constitution, agricultural extension is a state
responsibility. But as far as Peninsular Malaysia is concerned, the federal
Government establishes agricultural policy and provides managerial, technical
and financial support to each of the states. Moreover all the state Directors
of Agriculture and most of the senior officers are seconded from the federal
Government, although they work under the administrative control of the
states. Intermediate and operational agricultural staff are state employees.
These arrangements provide the federal Government with adequate control and
influence over planning and development activities and assure the coordination
of the states' function of extension with the federal functions of setting
agricultural policy, research, training and education. Authority and respon-
sibility for day-to-day activities remain at the local level with people who
are familiar with local problems, customs and procedures. In the Borneo
states of Sarawak and Sabah, the state Departments of Agriculture, reporting
to the state Ministries of Agriculture and staffed only by state employees,
are responsible for setting agricultural policy within the national framework
as well as for extension, training and education.
20.       Quantity and quality of extension services vary from state to state
depending on their resources and the stage of development of their agriculture.
Generally, there are too few people engaged in extension at the farm level;
at present on the average one extension worker has to cover 1,300 farm



- 6 -
families. Regular contact can only be maintained with a small portion of the
farmers. Other duties, such as administration of the agricultural input
subsidies program, often divert the attention of the extension officers.
While extension workers have generally received adequate basic agricultural
training, they are often not up-to-date on technical information and extension
methodology, a situation which can be improved by providing more subject
matter specialists to backstop the extension workers and by more intensive
in-service training. Planning, coordination and evaluation of extension work
is inadequate. Supervisory staff do not receive training in personnel
management and project planning; chains of command are often not clear;
efficient employment of staff is sometimes constrained by requirements for
academic qualifications; and no system exists for the evaluation of the
effectiveness of the extension work.
Training
21.       Professional training for agricultural degrees is offered at the
Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur and at
the University Pertanian Malaysia at Serdang. Agricultural field staff
receive operative-level training, which is provided at six vocational Agri-
cultural Training Institutes well distributed throughout Peninsular Malaysia,
of which three were financed under the Bank's First Education Project.
Capacity of the six institutes is now 1,680 graduates. Intake, however, has
been slower than projected for a number of reasons, foremost of which is the
lack of scholarship funds. In addition to the training at the institutes,
institutionalized in-service training programs are being set up to improve
and update the extension technical knowledge of all field staff, including
training in extension techniques, communications, operational skills and farm
management. The use of television for the support of extension work, both
for conveying information to the farmers and for the in-service training of
extension workers, is also being explored. Almost all primary and lower
secondary schools are now equipped with receivers as part of an educational
television program set up under the Bank's Second and Third Education Projects.
Seed Production
22.       At present, seed production is primarily confined to rice.    In
Peninsular Malaysia seeds are produced by the Department of Agriculture, in
Sarawak by the state Department of Agriculture and in Sabah by the state
Department of Agriculture and the Sabah Padi (Paddy) Board. Present controlled
rice seed production in all of Malaysia accounts for less than 800 tons of
improved seeds annually, which would only plant about 5% of the total annual
paddy crop area. There has been no effective seed certification and very
limited quality control. Testing facilities at the production centers allow
only for simple checks on germination and viability. Inadequate processing
and storage facilities as well as a shortage of trained staff are the main
constraints on increasing production and improving quality.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
23.       The proposed project would provide extension and related services
to an estimated one million rural families throughout Malaysia. These
represent more than 80% of the rural families served by the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) extension service and comprise the majority of the poorest
group in the agricultural sector. Settlers on land development schemes, as
well as farmers in large-scale irrigation areas, are generally provided
adequately with extension services by the respective operating agencies. The
farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would primarily be paddy
and coconut growers, including farmers who intercrop or grow other minor
crops in rotation and who by-and-large rely on rainfed agriculture. The
project would endeavor to make the benefits of improved technology available
to them, thus reducing the gap between known technology and its application
on the farm. The project was initially identified under the Bank's Agricultural
Research and Extension Project and was prepared by the federal Department of
Agriculture, assisted by the FAO Cooperative Program.
24.       The project would be implemented by the federal Department of
Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia in close collaboration with the states and
by the state Departments of Agriculture in Sabah and Sarawak. The differences
in project composition and in subprojects to be described below reflect the
differences in agricultural development between the three areas, as well as
the varying scope of responsibility of the three departments. In Sabah and
Sarawak, the relatively lower level of agricultural development and supporting
infrastructure and the more comprehensive responsibility of the Departments of
Agriculture require a wider range of components and a different emphasis than
in Peninsular Malaysia.
25.       Extension is primarily an educational activity and its objective
is to give guidance to farmers on the availability of research results, on
packages of new and improved technology, on the trends of cultivation in a
way that can be incorporated into farming systems, and on ways of communicating
successful techniques to each other, thus increasing farm productivity and
profitability. This is the main task of extension in Malaysia. The project
would emphasize regular in-service training of field level agricultural
staff, provision of additional field level extension staff and supporting
subject matter specialists, the progressive improvement and regularization of
extension methodology, the strengthening of extension educational activities
and of extension management.
Project Components
26.       The project may be divided up in the following components:    agricul-
tural extension staff and facilities, extension training, extension methodology,
seed production, and technical assistance. The components of the project are
summarized below.
27.       Extension Staff and Facilities.   The proposed project would build
each state Department of Agriculture into an effective institution to provide



- 8 -
adequate extension service to smallholders and to ensure that research
results are translated into farm benefits. The project would seek to do this
by the following measures:
(a) to recruit an additional 560 agriculture technicians (extension
workers, to increase the number from 780 to 1,340) and 38 subject
matter specialists, and strategically to locate these staff
throughout the 13 states of Malaysia (excluding most of Kelantan
State which is already provided for under Loan 1294-MA);
(b) to provide better in-service training for agricultural staff;
(c) to grant local and foreign training fellowships to selected
staff members;
(d) to provide four man-years of technical assistance in extension and
training;
(e) to improve the facilities (housing and offices) available to
extension staff; and
(f) to introduce a more positive and direct style of extension
methodology (regular training and farmer visits) and management
for executing extension activities.
28.       The national average ratio of field level agricultural technicians
to farm families would be increased from 1:1,300 to 1:800. Field level
extension staff would be increased from 495 to 895 in Peninsular Malaysia,
from 113 to 213 in Sabah, and from 171 to 248 in Sarawak. These increases
will not only help increase overall productivity, by improving the national
ratio of extension staff to farmers, but it will particularly help increase
yields by raising substantially the ratio of extension workers to farmers
where current ratios are well below the national average. The 38 additional
subject matter specialists would provide technical backstopping for the
extension workers. Appropriate housing and office facilities would be
constructed for field staff. The project would also contribute boats as
well as vehicles to make extension workers mobile and increase their coverage,
permitting them to reach those areas inaccessible by road.
29.       As mentioned above, a shortage of scholarship funds has contributed
to the inability to use the full capacity of the six Agriculture Institutes.
Funds for scholarships would be provided by the federal Government to ensure
that an adequate number of trained workers will be available. The 400
additional extension workers in the project for Peninsular Malaysia represent
about 15% of the projected output of the six institutes during the project
period. The remainder of the institutes' graduates are employed by the other
government and quasi-government organizations and the private sector.
30.       The increase in extension workers resulting from the project would
be used for giving farmers technical assistance and not to administer subsidy
programs nor perform regulatory functions.     In the future a much larger
proportion of the extension officers, therefore, would be able to concentrate
on teaching the farmer. Extension is an activity that depends upon adequate



-9 -
numbers of trained and informed staff and satisfactory assurances were
obtained during negotiations on the creation and financing of new positions
and recruitment of staff to fill them. (See Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement.)
31.       Extension Training.   Training under the proposed project would
strengthen the technical and operational capability of the extension services
by the means set out below. In addition, the increasirng emphasis to be given
to training activities within the DOA will be supported by the training of
staff of the Extension Liaison Unit under Loan 1115-MA.
(a) A new Agriculture Institute would be established in Sarawak.
Facilities at the Agriculture Vocation School in Sabah would be
improved and output of existing institutes in Peninsular Malaysia
would be increased. The quality of training at the institutes
would be improved by the training of teaching staff and by closer
integration of the institutes into field extension programs.
(b)  In-service upgrading and specialized training of field staff would
be achieved by the establishment of five new Regional Extension
Training and Development Centers (RETDCs) (four in the Peninsula
and one in Sarawak) and the establishment of an Agricultural
Training Center in Sabah to perform the function of an RETDC.
Courses would have a practical orientation; they would last from
several days to three weeks and would be aimed at keeping staff
informed and up to date. Courses would be offered in extension
methodology, extension techniques, and technical subjects. In
addition, any remaining capacity at the RETDCs would be filled by
training programs for other agricultural agencies. During
negotiations assurances were given that the DOA would conduct an
analysis of agricultural in-service training requirements. The
findings of this analysis are expected to be submitted to the Bank
no later than June 30, 1979. (See Section 3.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement.)
(c) Over 400 supervisory staff of the extension services would receive
training in management skills and in extension and communications
methods. Selected senior staff would also be given an opportunity
to visit places outside Malaysia where effective extension systems
have been developed.
(d) Subject matter specialists would be given major responsibility
for in-field, in-service training of extension staff, as well as
acting as a constant channel of communication between extension and
research workers. Training of these specialists in their fields
and in communications skills would be provided for under the project.
(e) A farm mechanization training and extension unit would be established
in Sabah in conjunction with the state's training center. In Sarawak,
to strengthen mass media support for the extension service, a unit
for the production of agricultural extension communications materials
would be established and staff would be trained.



- 10 -
32.       Although in-service training will upgrade the knowledge of the
field staff and keep them informed, there is also a need to provide for
specialized fellowships to upgrade management and technical ability. About
166 man-years of training will be provided through: (a) undergraduate
scholarships, (b) postgraduate studies, and (c) overseas short courses and
study tours. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that annual
fellowship programs would be prepared well in advance and submitted to the
Bank staff for review and comment. (See Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement.)
33.       Extension Methodology.   The widely varying nature of agriculture
throughout the country requires a flexible and practical extension approach,
adjusted to the level of development of local agriculture and supporting
services (credit, marketing, input supply, etc.). The main emphasis of the
proposed project would be on pre-service and in-service training of extension
workers so that they will be adequately informed. Armed with information, the
extension workers would concentrate on counseling individuals and groups of
farmers on appropriate inputs and farming techniques. Extension officers are
presently involved in regulatory activities and input supplies as much as in
educational activities. One of the major goals of the project would be to
systematically separate as rapidly as practicable extension from regulatory
and input functions, providing a strong cadre of extension officers who were
free to concentrate on providing technical assistance to the farmers.
34.       The basis of the proposed project extension methodology would be
systematic planning and application of extension activities at the farm level
(training, visits and demonstrations), beginning with the day-to-day work of
the field level extension worker up through the area, district, region, and
state levels of organization. The agricultural technician would plan his
program on a two to four week schedule, depending on local requirements, and
would plan regular training, demonstration (based on a package input approach)
and discussion visits to provide timely agricultural information relevant to
the most important crops and activities in his area at specific times of the
year. He would conduct regularly scheduled visits, discussions and demonstra-
tions with farm leaders and other farmers and maintain records of visits,
information transmitted, acceptance by farmers and their achievements. These
reports would form part of a cumulative record of activities and achievements
from the area, district, region and finally the state level, which would then
form the basis for systematic monitoring, evaluation and long-term planning.
The planning and evaluation of extension work will be developed at the state,
region, and district levels.
35.       The study of the use of television for extension purposes would open
up a potentially very valuable communications medium for improving agriculture
in Malaysia. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the DOA, in
cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Radio T.V. Malaysia, would
complete such a study for Bank review by December 31, 1978. (See Section
3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
36.       Seed Production.   This component of the project would provide for
facilities and capability for producing quality seeds of paddy and minor crops.



- 11 -
In Peninsular Malaysia five crop production centers (now producing 800 tons of
seeds annually) would be expanded and strengthened to produce, process and
distribute approximately 2,500 tons of seed annually by full development. Seed
quality control would be developed through a central seed testing and quality
control laboratory to be established at Serdang for Peninsular Malaysia. In
Sabah, two seed production, processing and distribution centers would also be
developed, with the capacity to produce annually 200 tons of paddy seed and 150
tons of minor crop seeds (mainly groundnuts, maize, sorghum and soybeans). In
Sarawak, one seed production center would be established with the capacity to
process annually about 250 tons of paddy seed. Production of up to 50 tons of
minor crop seeds would also be developed. The production centers would become
the major suppliers of domestic seed requirements.
37.       Initially, quality seeds production would be accomplished through
improvement of existing government seed farms. Quality seed production
would progressively be extended to farmer outgrowers, and 50% or more of the
seed is expected to be grown by farmers by full development. A seeds fund
would be established and maintained by the DOA to provide adequate operating
capital to purchase seed at a premium price from farmer growers and cover
operating deficits. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
(See section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
38.       The Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute (MARDI)
would supply foundation seed to the seed production centers. The respective
research institutes of Sabah and Sarawak would also produce some foundation
seed for local requirements. Seeds would be multiplied by the crop production
center and farmer outgrowers. Seeds would be sold at cost to the more pro-
gressive farmers with adequate resources. However, initial emphasis would
be on distribution through subsidy programs, administered by the state
Departments of Agriculture, to introduce and demonstrate the benefits of
improved seeds to small farmers and farmers with inadequate resources or
insufficient incentive to purchase seeds at market prices. With a view to
establishing seed production on a self-financing basis, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government's pricing policy for seeds
would be reviewed and that the Bank would be advised of the Government's seed
pricing proposals by January 31, 1980. (See section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement.) Seeds pricing policy is closely linked to the Government's
subsidy program and policy to be reviewed under the project (see para 47).
Also, assurances were obtained during negotiations that, during the project
implementation period, the Bank would be given reasonable prior notice of the
Government's intention to enact any federal or state legislation concerning
seed production. (See section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement.) The
Malaysian seeds industry is in the initial stages of development, with the
Government as the only producer of improved seeds at present; therefore,
legislation at this time would be premature.
39.       Technical Assistance.   The federal and state Governments have
requested a total of eight and one-half man years of technical assistance for
the extension, training and seed components of the project to assist with
specialized activities in relation to planning, organization, design and
implementation as described below. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that this technical assistance would be acquired under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank. (See section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement.)



- 12 -
Project Implementation
40.       The project will be implemented through existing administrative
structures at both the federal and state levels. The Director General of the
federal Department of Agriculture (DOA) would be responsible for project imple-
mentation. The Director of the DOA Extension Branch would become the National
Project Director for all states, and each of the state DiFectors of Agriculture
in Sabah and Sarawak would be Assistant Project Directors. Each state Director
of Agriculture would be responsible for execution of the extension component
through the state's Chief Extension Officer. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that all states would designate their chief extension officer by
June 30, 1978. (See section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
41.       The Director of the DOA Extension Branch, would, in addition to his
overall responsibility for extension activities, be responsible for the
training to be carried out under the project and for the administration of
the Regional Extension Training and Development Centers. A working level
committee of all user agencies would be formed to provide policy guidelines
to these centers.
42.       The Director of the DOA Crop Production Branch would be responsible
for implementation of the seeds component of the project. Separate units would
be established within the Crop Production Branch for (a) seed production; (b)
seed processing, storage and marketing;, and (c) seed certification and testing.
MIARDI would produce, maintain and supply breeder and foundation seeds for
released varieties, and the National Seeds Assessment Committee would approve
the new varieties for release.
43.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.
The capacity to implement the components of the project varies from state
to state. The federal DOA and the Bank are confident that the administrative
constraints can be overcome through proper coordination and cooperation. The
seeds component of the project would be implemented slowly in the first two
years to allow the seeds consultant time to prepare design, production and
processing requirements, with the objective of reaching full development by
1982 or as soon thereafter as practical.
44.       Seed production centers   and Farmers' Associations (which will be
used for seed distribution in Sabah) would adopt cost accounting procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank, and assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. (See section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Monitoring and Evaluation
45.       The success of the DOA's extension activities and those of the
project will ultimately be measured by the increased productivity of small-
holders in Malaysia. However, there is inadequate information regarding
present agricultural practices, farmer attitudes, and the constraints that
keep smallholders from increasing their productivity. Therefore, there is
a clear need at this time to establish a monitoring and evaluating capability
within the DOA.



- 13 -
46.       Monitoring the project would require a systematic framework of
data collection, analysis, and periodic reporting. Consultants employed
under the UNDP/IBRD State and Rural Development Project would assist the
federal and state DOA's in the development of an appropriate system. Also,
a computer specialist and statistician economist provided under Loan 1115-4A
would be available. The DOA and their consultants would examine (a) present
agricultural practices of farmers, including the use of improved seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides; (b) credit mechanisms avail'able to the farmers
and their use; and (c) marketing channels available to farmers, particularly
for the new crops that are encouraged under crop-diversification schemes.
47.       Farm subsidy programs have been a principal component of the DOA's
extension programs and will remain so under the Third Malaysia Plan. The
principal objectives of the subsidy scheme are: (a) to introduce farmers to
new crops; (b) to demonstrate to participants (and their neighbors) the
benefits of improved agricultural practices; (c) to assume some of the risk
of innovation when farmers cannot be expected to do so; and (d) to grant
initial working capital to farmers who have no opportunity for savings during
the maturation period of investments. Subsidies are primarily provided in
the form of inputs consisting mainly of seeds, planting materials, fertilizers,
insecticides and pesticides. Federal funds budgeted for these programs in
the Third Plan for Peninsular Malaysia (US$23.8 million) are about four times
the amount spent under the previous five-year Plan (US$6 million). Increases
of similar magnitude are envisaged in Sabah and Sarawak. Although the
subsidy schemes are being increased in crop coverage as well as in amounts,
there is virtually no information on the past achievements of the schemes.
Therefore, there is a need to review the objectives and effectiveness of the
subsidy programs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an
appropriate monitoring and evaluation system of the extension and the subsidy
programs will be set up by January 31, 1980. (See section 3.05 of the
Loan Agreement.)
Project Costs and Financing
48.       Total project costs are estimated at US$46.5 million, of which
US$19.0 million would be foreign exchange. Extension accounts for 49%,
training and fellowships for 40%, seed production for 9%, and technical
assistance for 2% of the total base costs. All prices and salaries have
been adjusted to mid-1977 levels, based on recent Malaysian and international
price trends. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil works and 10% for
vehicles and equipment are included and account for 5% of total project
costs. Costs due to expected price increases amount to 22% of project costs
and are based on the following annual inflation rates: for local costs a 7%
annual rate; and (b) for foreign exchange costs for 1976 a rate of 8% for
civil works and of 10% for vehicles and equipment for 1977-80, 7.5% and 9%,
respectively; and thereafter, 7% and 8%, respectively. Unit costs for civil
works in Sabah and Sarawak are estimated at 25% to 30% above those in
Peninsular Malaysia, reflecting higher local contractor and transport costs.
Project costs for the seeds subproject include an estimate of the working
capital (seeds fund) required to purchase seeds from farmer outgrowers and to
cover operational deficits during the development phase of the seeds industry.
Working capital is calculated on the basis of the above cost less revenues
generated from seed sales.



- 14 -
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$19.0 would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project. Foreign exchange expenditures are estimated at
US$5.6 million for civil works, US$4.4 million for equipment and vehicles,
US$600,000 for technical assistance, US$2.3 million for fellowships and
US$6.1 million for contingencies. All operational expenditures, other than
those for incremental field staff, would be funded under state budget allo-
cations. All capital costs, as well as expenditures for incremental field
staff, would be financed under the federal Government budget. Satisfactory
cost sharing and administrative arrangements between the federal and state
Governments have been agreed to. Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that the Government will make funds available to hire all
incremental field staff required to conduct, support and maintain project
activities. (See section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Procurement
50.       The Project Director would have overall responsibility for the
procurement of goods and services under the project. He would use and expand
the procurement staff and facilities already established for the extension
component financed under Loan 1115-MA. The Project Director would approve
all procurement action of the ten states of Peninsular Malaysia (which
excludes Kelantan, covered under a separate project) and would rely on the
state Directors of Agriculture for Sarawak and Sabah to carry out procurement
in their respective states.
51.       Construction contracts would generally be small (averaging less
than US$100,000), dispersed in time and space and could not be grouped
together for simultaneous bidding; therefore, all contracts estimated to cost
US$400,000 or less (totalling about US$10.0 million) would be awarded after
competitive bidding in accordance with Government procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts above US$400,000 (totalling about
US$8.0 million) would be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. Vehicles and equipment (totalling about
US$7.5 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. A 15% preference margin,
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the comparison of bids (see Part B 2 of Schedule 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Consulting services totalling 8.5 man-years would
be engaged under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 166
man-years of fellowships would be managed under programs acceptable to the
Bank (together totalling approximately US$4.0 million).
Disbursement
52.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100%
of the ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally, and 85% of the cost of
imported but locally procured items. Disbursement for all civil works would
equal 40% of total cost including site development. For fellowships and
technical assistance, disbursements would equal 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures. It is expected that the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed
by June 30, 1983.



- 15 -
Justification, Benefits and Risks
53.       The Project would provide the infrastructure and extension services
necessary to increase the yields of paddy, other field crops, and coconuts. An
estimated one million rural families will be reached by the increase in the
extension and seed production services, with particular emphasis on increasing
extension services in rural poverty areas. The cost of the project's exten-
sion component would be about US$26 per rural family. The project is
supporting the development objectives of Malaysia (a) by improving the
productivity and incomes of the poorest segments of Malaysian society; (b) by
reducing urban-rural and ethnic income disparities; and (c) by reducing the
need to import food grains.
54.       Aside from advancing basic national development objectives, the
project would yield high economic returns. The expected overall economic
rate of return of the project is estimated to be at least 25%. This rate of
return represents only a modest increase of 8.4% in production value and
assumes an increase of less than 4% in padi production, when the projected
rise (to 1988) in the real price of paddy is taken into account.
55.       The project would raise net paddy farm incomes of project farmers
by US$80-100 per family (US$15-19 per capita) even assuming present farmgate
prices, thus raising incomes of the majority of them by 14 to 26% and raising
the incomes of some above poverty levels (US$1,150 per family).
56.       In calculating the rate of return of the project, the various
components were considered as an integrated package. Proper implementation
of the project will require a high degree of organizational effectiveness
and coordination among the federal Department of Agriculture and the state
Departments of Agriculture, as well as with other public institutions in
Malaysia. In particular, institutional services such as credit and marketing
will have to be progressively strengthened in order to obtain the full
benefits of the project. Much of the initial emphasis will be on raising the
subsistence level of rural families. The major risks involve untimely
availability of staff, funds and equipment, administrative ineffectiveness as
well as acceptance by farmers which would slow down the rate of development
of extension services and seeds production. The federal and state Departments
of Agriculture are well aware of these managerial, organizational, and
administrative limitations and are confident that adequate coordination and
cooperation in implementing the project can be achieved. These views are
shared by the Bank.
Environmental Effects
57.       It is unlikely that any components of the project would have a
significantly adverse effect on the environment of the country. The use of
high yield seed varieties will require the application of chemical fertilizers
and sprays for pest control, but the level of application in the country will
be relatively modest.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
November 3, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)-----------~---~~~~~~~~~~
LAND-_--- AREA(THOUKM2------------MALAYSIA                                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      329.7                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      60.3                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE         PERU           PORTUGAL      MEXICO **
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   230.0*    440.0 *   860.0*/a           470.0*       950.0*    690.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           8.1      10.8     12.7/a              13.3         9.1       50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      24.0      33.0     39.0/a              io.d        99.0       26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      152.0     165.0    211.07ia             45.0       211.0       52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        45.6      42.2       38.7              42.9        21.1       43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         17.8       12.9       9.9               14.7       10.4       10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       62.0      40.a/a     35.4/b            65.1/a      58.0       68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      51.7      56.7       59.4              58.0        66.1       62.4
GROSS REPRO#CTION RATE               2.9       2.6/a      2.4/b             2.9         1.5        3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                2.8       2.9        2.8               2.8         0-1/a      3.4
URBAN                                5.5       3.0        4.8               4.7         1.6        4.8
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         25.9      26.9       30.2              52.5        26.9       58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      43.8/a b 44.7/a      42.7/b            45.0/a      28.S       46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      53 4/a b 52.17a     53.97 W            si. 'ia     61.8       50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2:.8B~    3.2Ta      3.47W             3. 17a      9.7        3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9/a,b   0.9/a      0.9/b             0.9/a       0.6        1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4/a,b    1.67a                         1- ,7b   1.1/b      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..     222.2/a    371.8/b               *-         *-       55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..       8.0/a       ..         .         .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        2300.0/a 3600.0      4200.0            4300.0      3300.0    13000.0
LABOR'FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        56.0 o    49.5       45.2              45. /a      29.2 /c    45.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          2.P0-K.c  7.0        7.2               5.W7c       2.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..      28.3         ..                ..          ..       37.8
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             *-      56.0         ..                 ..         ..       63.2
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEH4LDS             ..       3.5        ..                 ..          ..        4.2
LOwEST  40% OF NODUSESLDS             ..      11.2        ..                 ..          ..       10.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWiERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..         ..                                               37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..                                                 0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            6500.0 /d      .     4400.0 /b c       1920.0      1120.0/d   1480.0
POPULATION PER HNUSING PEPSO N      2600 0 SPTA  E70.0 0                   3200.0      1090.07-e  1620.0/a
POPULAION PE   HOSPIAL BED  2900O7-d 270.0/.    270.0-7Cj          470.0      170.0       B80.0-
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          .      110.0      115.0              98.0       118.0      114.0/b
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                       49.0 /b    54.0              62.0        85.0       65.0/
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..      20.07W        .              24.0        40.0       28.0 /c
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..        5.5       4.0 /b              ..        3.4        9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      9i.0 /a   89 0 /a    92 0 b           114.0       98.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    91.07Ia   69. 0/a    92.0/bC          140         9.          0.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED           190j      34D-           2E.7~         36.0        57.0       22.0
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0 /a   13.0 /a    13.0 /b           12.0        13.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLME.'(                               __
(% OF SECONDARY)                     5.0 /a    3.0 Ia     3.0 /b c         19.0/d      32.0       24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                5    a0 , b  o      e 360o.o             .0       32         76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                ..       2.3 /a      ,,                 ,         0.8/f      2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                50/,655                                             1.  d
SCCESS TO ELECTRICITY                           6. /,           *-                      65.5        61.0/d
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   -      430 /6 64.2                                         59.0
URAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    .       30.0 /a      ..                                     28.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        37.0      41.0       40.0             134.0       142.0      276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)         13.0      27.0       34.0              17.0       61.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         200.0 /d  382.0    541.0/b             415.0      624.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.8       4.0        2. F              3.7         5.1        3.2
_____ _____  _____ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ _____ _____        --------------- - _- ____________- _______
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIUNS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Inu  rhersji  oaed    dots for l9OS refer to any yearhosee        1959 aod 1961, for, 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1975.
TNP per cspiuc detc ore hosed so the World Book Ailos methodology (1974-76 busts).
00Mojic. has sot a rapid path of indootolal ooaso..ad since Malaysia's industrial base is relatively small and the o..untry has the capacity
and place to eopand its industrtal siroicition rapidly in the future, Mecico has been selected as the e-jective coun.try.
MALAYSILA    1960     Ia  penInsular Mouoi            1, 1957.     Ic   1962, registered applican.ts   for woeb;     /d  Federation of Malaya.
19710   /a    eninsolor Malaysia,      /b   1964-66,     /c   Piped water inside.
MtOST RECfIll? ESTPiATE     I a  1976,    Lus  Peninsular Malavsia;      /c  1972.
fIR;)t       1970     /o  icoldimg Lodian jungle poo        otin,    /b   Ratio of po,pulation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forts            Ic  Urban
only, ~ I- Icodinf -veniog ucbools.
PORTfOGAL    1970    /e   Po  to enigratlon pOyolo,ti- growth rote is lowr than rat         of natural increase;       /b ngRatio of puptiotton under 15 and 65
and over to total labor force.        Ic  Eunluding unemployed,       Id  Registered, intcludin    phyaiciaca practicing dentiatsy;
le   1Inlodlesg assistant  -ooe,       If  Total, urban aod   .rurl.
MREI C       1970     /s  Including ausistoot cors-,         Lb  1969-flavrae          /c   1964-66,     /d  Inside only.
Rit, Noveber 1, 1977
Land urea lihs he2I                                                                        Poelation per cursin    perso  - Population dioided by niober of practcicig
fTol - Tossl sof-o arcs      -p,rIisia land urea sod Island waters.                          nab  and femal   grad uss nurse.    trai-od  or  cerrifted" nurses, and
AAric. -Moot tetet etaeof ogr,.irtrsI oreo ,eod temporarily or pain-                         asailisry persaaa    wish training or esperiance
sestly (or crps, postres, jiuret & kitchen ga-deos or to lie follow                      Population Par hospital bed - Population dicided by masher of hospica1 beds
avaiable in public and prie-te genera an sd spctialiod hospital and
GNP Per coolis. (L1S$) - lhP per capita esci.ates  t ---orrs   nchrk  prices,                rehabilitation centers , -ssldes nursing hone    and eetablish-neta for
calclatd by cam     conoer1i    - rthud us World Bank At100 (1973-75 hotl                   utodial sod pr-vetlOs cars.
1960. 1970 and 1975 dots.                                                                Per capita supply of"cLories ft of re..uirensts(    - Conputed fr   energy
equivalent of net food sopplies available in co...try per capita per day,
Population ond oltal ocaciutrc                                                               -oulable sopplies renprise donestic production, imparts lane esports, and
Population adsr Iille)            As of (dy first-   ir cot -viluble. asrage                 changes is otoob, cot supplies osolude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two eod-yvar es-iLaeo . '~tO, 1970 cod 1975 data,                                       to food process.ing ond loasses in diatributian; req.iremets worr estimated
by FAO basedZa phya ill"cgioa seeds - frnorma activity sand health -aid-
foPularioo est        c   osuare km - Mitd-sea  puoulactoon nr square kilstor                ering ensit.eoemr     t-pratre, body weights , age sod ass distributions of
(BOB hecrrr      f 'tota  are                                                              populattos, and ail1aing 10   for -ants an household level.
Pouaindens to-po_t u_susre i, of asric. land - ConPutoi   -s shoe fur                Per capita supply of protein fgram    per day)-Prticoesofprcit
agiutrl lad osls                                                                    Met supply of food per day; Met supply of toed is defined as above; requin-
nests for all cotrios ennahifahhd6by SDBA -ononaic Reese.rch Sccuices
Vital saitc                                                                                  pcuoide foramisina       lLesao   of0h gi       of total protein par day, and
Crudo birth rare Per thousod, ovrage - Aos.ou      Ioe birtt. per rhousuod of                20 gras of an=ima   and pulne protein, of which 10 grs should he asimal
old-peer populstic,te-year -rirhaotic o--rage       ending to i960 and 1970,               protein, theae standards ore lowr than those of 75 gros      af total protein
ard fiso-year overae   ocie.  in 19'5 for -sot recnt estjoate.                             and 23 gras of animal proneis as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude doath rate per rhauo-d, -oe-ge - AnnuoI dauths, per thoosad of mid-ysec                 to rh. Third World Feud Sarvy.
population; 1cc-year arichmeti .o.eru       0dn    Io 1960 and 197  Lo ive-              Per cap;itafproto~in  opnol fro, soimIan sd pulse - Protein supply of food
sear  _-gerg  rditf to 1975 for cosIt                isc almr.                             de_odIo       cnLa     rd pussla     rm    per day.
lofcionraity rate (           Atou) - Iau   deaths af  nfaro under ace year of age     Death rare f/thou) ages 1_4 -A..ous deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
pe  h,-.uod Ire hlrtho-                                                                 years, to children in tbie age group, coggested aa an todiarotr uf
ife cpecuoasat brth l        As) - eraf  camber of peers of life remining atmaution
bitrh, usualy fls-y-or aeoragnsemding in 1960, 1970 sod 19 75 for d-olop-
mg ceworics                                                                              idc-tion
lr-osrorod-ctioorate-;oe-oge        niabec of lIto daugthirs. . w.n.a.sill hear             04-looed ecllerartio - pErimr sc.hool - Esroi1mnt of all ages es per-
in her co-1 -rpr-d-tl- p-clod if rho osperiecces pro.set age-specific                      -ontags of prioury school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 pears
fertility rero, ucualyo fio-y-ea     . raecges ocding in 19160. 19'f an  19')5             hut adjoated for different leogtha of primary educa.tion, for couctries with
for developig conrIs..toraeooion, enrolmnt nay sense..d 10071 osoncens                                                                                   pupils are belo
Poeclaton ucoth rot  (7.1 - 10101 - iop,o   rs1got        crso      i-year              oshnteofficial school age.
population, far 1950-60, 1960-70 aod 1970-75                                              id!luoted  ..e.llIset ratic-secosdafy school - C-puted aabove, secondary
poult _ngwh rot   (7,) - cebon - tonputed like grawih rate uf total                    ods...sio  requires at least four Yeats of approved primary iateuction,
popolutter; d ifferer  definitions of urbc area    nay affect  _oporbility of               pro-ides geners1, occaional or resehe     training inatrrutioes for popils
data aooog cItooriec                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age:    --repandeaceaese      ar  geosrally eocluded.
febao cucai      _C   f tura1) - Ratio of o,rIn cc total populslo, different              YPear of schoolinx,provided frie and second levels) - Total yeses of
deIiIn .f urhan  r.. siu   na   a tro  cspsbit  of dotsamog c-nerin-                 shooing; at ancondary Isosl, emeti_nl imatr_tion nay bn partially or
Omapletely -aclded.
aR srutre nprcs) - Childre- (0-14, ycors) . workinIg-age (15-64 years),             Vocationalerlmn.1          fscnay        - Vonation1 institutions inclde
sod rtired   1615  era  n  oe) as p-rcerges of oid-y-s        pepslatioe.                   technical, Industrial or ether Program    ehich operatLe indopandesilo or as
Age depend-no  -a 1i  - Rat,io. of Popultion usder 15 and 65 and ovr to those                 departmenrts of  srondery in-titurioras
uf ages 15 thre..gh km                                                                    Adult lterco rae(.).       Literate adults (able to read aed write) au per-
ic-oic. depc-dcoty Ruso- a-s of ypulstuo u-nder (5 sod 65 sod ever to                         cetgoftoa         adir tpopulati on aged 15 ye-ursad a
th. labor for'ce in agegroup of i5 -h4 yeses.
Family pl...ois  -  Ccept-r (tsussI.,ts I, tho) - fuolts. o     -uhn   of scsptrurs          .. Inulg
of  srhctrldo--e          coder   c-psoe- of matina.l family placc-o    progrms           Person  per coos furbn) - Average nsb-e uf prcoos per coos is occpied
sicce in-pt-                                                                               c_c_ecional dwellings in orb on areas,. dwellings -nc1ade sun-p.-smaent
foorl el-oolc  - usrs (. of nsrrind w--) - Pe-etotgcs of --ud c-on of                       ut-uccueu and unecopiod pare..
rhsld-bcar Ing ag  (115-44 your) oh. use birfhs-rt-1 d-icos to all mactied               Occuprod Owllca      ibatpie wter (7.) - olucupied tou-stl..noI dwellings
so_en issae age group.                                                                      in ousd -rura       areas without inuide or -ta-de piped outer facilities
sprotge of,al   occupied dwellings.
ImoloymerI                                                                                  itoce  to olnot1icsts (7. of all dwelitci) - Con-en--r1 duelligs with
Total Labor furon (thou..ond) - Eco-oi-Ily -trioe peroons, icoluding ared                     eleorr-it'Y in floingqoresa        peruest of rtatl dwellgs is -rhe end
foresand ucemplysod hut e-ulod-g h-usewirn. studenco ,errc., def-iriroos                   rru1 ares.
Illvnou  oust lea aroue     rotnIpocble                                               loca   dw1lllogs consocrd to elorcr         7)    -topured as obve for ruroI
Labor farce ic ar,icultur   f7)-giutr            labot force (fin f airmio. foresty.          dwel1tng  alyt
huto  odfutg)I as pertenrofe of total labor force
Sonspload (7. ofl- oce             cnise      r    saly dofined so per.soo    cho          Imismption
ore able acd will ing to take a job, out of a jb os, agfren day, cem-ied ou               Radio rteeiver  (Par than Pop) -All types of r-oeosc- for rode. heod-ar
of a joh, ond soking worh fur a specsled      LoLwn peIod eot onodsirg ncc                  to geneco1 public pcr tho...and of population, excludes   -cliceosd   -eesers
wah  aycih  opcbLe between -c`uurci        dse to different dolt-tion               in consecins and icyears. wheecogiotration of adu- test -s Lo effect;
ofoepleyodd     suc     fdta,eg.         elyetofc         ltto, -iPcpiedata for recont yours osY sor be -mpscshle dorut                            oot r       .hlished
toocs  oopclsory umemplaysmo  insur..oce.                                              liosmn log.
Posssso cus" (Per thespeon      -.Pu..s.oge.r.ce  cosupris  uncu  cas    taiog
Inras distributionc- Pocceotae of pri-ato inroam      (hush  o cah sod kias')                 losthan eighht persona; ...eIudesa        ors   hesra... ... millitr.
rec-toed by richest 57., rirhe-t 207., poorest 20%., aod poorest 417. of houue-             vehicles.
colds                                                                                     Electricity (Ikoh/yr per 05p) - Asmoa.l -onsaptiem    f ledustrlal. co--tecial,
publicasod ptiiate e1-cteit      in hilemart bars per us.pita, geurarlly
Distribution of udoweshp            - Pretogeu of land    -1s b, wral,th-o Illr               hased on productls data, wiitthout al11wasne for lo.sse     to grids Lr allow-
and pourest 107. of laod ownrs.                                                             ing for imprcts and seperts ofelectricitry
Neenpetot (ho/yr soc cap) - Pr,cpita aonnua      kosnrinl         ilogeos
gesith and Nutrition                                                                          esiaenrs:1eri             cdcinp5          etiprso         eeto
P.elation per phTysician   - Popilatlo  ducided ho nsooher oF pra.itfitg
physicla... qualified Ico   a nedica1l schoc  a taciterst   level1



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
AREA                            POPULATION (1976)                     DENSITY
330 thousand sq km                       12.7 million                      37 per sq km
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1970-75 average)                       HEALTH
Birth rate                 - 38.7                Population per physician (1973)     - 4,400 /a
Death rate                 -  9.9                Population per hospital bed (1973) -     270 /a
Population growth rate     -  2.7
EDUCATION (1972)                                         ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1970)
Adult literacy rate        - 60%                 All dwellings    - 43% la
Primary school enrollment - 92% La               Rural dwellings - 30% /s
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976:   US$860 Lb
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976:                 ANNUAL RATE OF GRKDTH (% in constant prices and M$)
USS Mln       X          1960-65     1965-70      1970-75     1976
GNP at Market Prices        10,561      100.0          6.9         5.6         7.0        11.3
Gross Domestic Investment    2,111       20.0          9.4         7.7         6.2         6.6
Gross National Saving        2,794       26.5         11.8         7.9        10.8        11.5
Current Account Balance        683        6.5
Exports of Goods, NFS        5,555       52.6         4.1          6.5         5.8        20.1
Imports of Goods, NFS        4,409       41.7         3.3          5.7         4.0        10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                 Labor Force                   V.A. Per Worker
US$ Hln          X            Kin.       %                   US$           X
Agriculture       2,367         29.1            1.9      45.2                1,246         59.7
Industry         2,224          27.3           0.6       14.3                3,707        177.5
Services         3,553          43.6           1.4       33.3                2,538        121.6
Unemployed           .            .            0.3        7.2
Total/Average 8.144         100.0           4.2      100.0                2,088        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govorma-mt
MS Kln             S of GDP
1976        1976       1973-75
Current Receipts            7,032        25.6        24.9
Current Expenditures        6,490        23.6        22.9
Public Authorities Surplus    193         0.7        0.6
Current Surplus               735         2.7        2.7
Development Expenditures    2,965        10.8        10.7
Foreign Borrowing (net)       371         1.3         2.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1969   1970    1971   1972   1973   1974     1975    1976
Oillioa MS outstandiag end period)
Money and Quasi-Money               3,724  4,131   4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729   10,001  12,769
lank Credit to Public Sector          909    833   1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746    2,148   3,036
Bank Credit to Private Sector       1,841  2,246   2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278    6,084   7,471
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Yoney and Quasi-Money as S of GDP    33.1    33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8     45.1    46.4
Consumer Price Index (1967 - 100)    99.4   101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4   137.8   144.0   147.7
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                 -0.4     1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5    17.4     4.5     2.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector          6.4   -8.4    25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0     14.6    41.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector         9.0   21.9    14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1     15.3    22.8
/a Peninsular Malaysia.
lb World Bank Atlas.
.   not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
September 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                              US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS       4,420   4,076  5,555
Imports of Goods, NFS       4,424   3,965  4,409       Rubber                  1,087      24.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     -4     111  1,146       Tin                       577      13.2
Interest Payments (net)       -50     -57   -115       Timber                    677      15.4
Other Factor Payments (net) -199     -172   -291        Palm Oil                 441       10.0
Net Transfers                 -58    - 52    -57        Petroleum                441       10.0
Balance on Current Account   -311    -170    683       All Other Commodities 1.160        26.6
Total             4,384      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      373    229    130
Net MLT Borrowing /a                                    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Disbursements            182     589    390
Amortization              52      75    105                                        US$ Mln
Subtotal                 130     514    285
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed     1,619
Other Capital (net)             -5  (-502  (-185        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt 
Other items n.e.i.                  (__    (            Total Outstanding & Disbursed     1,619
Increase in Reserves (-)     -187     -71   -913
Net Official Reserves                                   DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /b
(end year)                  1,615   1,695  2,504                                           %
Fuel and Related Materials                              Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed     4.3
Imports                     416     425    519       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
of which:   Petroleum     215      ..     ..       Total Outstanding & Disbursed      4.3
Exports                     345     402    744
of which:   Petroleum     281     355    688
IBRD/IDA LENDING (AUGUST 31. 1977)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                          IBRD
Average rate during period:                             Outstanding & Disbursed          320.3
M$ per US$      US$ per M$        Undisbursed                      387.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed     707.3
1971          3.05           0.33
1972          2.82           0.35
1973          2.44           0.41
1974          2.41           0.41
1975          2.40           0.42
1976          2.54           0.39
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
/b Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. not available



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF AUGUST 31, 1977)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower                   Purpose                 Bank     Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans fully disbursed                                         247.9 /1
599     1969     Malaysia                 Education (I)                8.8         2.0
672     1970     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             13.0         0.3
774     1971     Sabah Ports Authority    Ports                       16.1         1.9
799     1972     Malayan Railway
Administration         Railroad                   16.0          0.4
810     1972     Malaysia                 Education (II)              15.5        11.4
851     1972     Malaysia                 Urban Transport (I)
(Highway I)                 16.0         0.5
880     1973     Malaysia                 Population                   5.0         4.3
885     1973     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             25.0        13.0
908     1973     Malaysia                 Water Supply (II)           13.5         4.2
931     1973     Malaysia                 Highway (II)                19.5         7.6
967     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             40.0        27.3
973     1974     Malaysia                 Agricultural Development    45.0        42.2
974     1974     Malaysia                 Education (III)             19.0        18.2
1031     1974     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VI)                 43.3         22.1
1044     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             36.0        31.6
1115     1975     Malaysia                 Agricultural Research
and Extension             28.5        28.1
1178     1975     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VII)                35.0         33.9
1213     1976     Malaysia                 Sewerage                    21.5        21.4
1214     1976     Malaysia                 Urban Transport (II)       26.0         25.6
1294     1976     Malaysia                 Rural Development           21.0        21.0
1329     1976     Malaysia                 Education (IV)             35.0         35.0
1376     1977     Malaysia                 Highway (III)               35.0        35.0
Total effective commitment                         781.6 /2
of which has been repaid                          74.3
Total now outstanding                              707.3
Amount sold                   37.4
of which has been repaid    12.6                  24.8
Total effective loan now
held by Bank                                     682.5
Total undisbursed                                              387.0
/1 In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965,
to the Public Utilities Board in Singapore (amount being held by the Bank
as of August 31, 1977 - US$3.8 million).
/2 Additional loans of US$22.0 million for an eighth power project and
US$39.0 million for a national small-scale irrigation project were
signed on Ausust 3, 1977, but were not effective as of August 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF AUGUST 31,1977)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business        Loan       Equity        Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -         1.31         1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.           Cement           1.28       0.28          1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel            2.45       1.01          3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel             -         0.23          0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.               Textiles         1.25       0.25          1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -         0.63          0.63
Total gross commitments                      4.98       3.71          8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs           3.68       3.46         7.14
Total investments now held by IFC            1.30       0.25          1.55
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 599   Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16. 1969; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The Project provides US$8.8 million for the construction of
technical, vocational, agricultural and general secondary schools and one
teacher training college. All project institutions have been completed and
are in satisfactory operation. US$2.0 million of project funds still remain
undisbursed because of lower than expected project costs and the shift in the
exchange rate. A proposal from the Borrower to utilize this balance to
finance an additional project item to be transferred from the Second Education
Project (Loan 810-MA) is being considered by the Bank. The disbursement of the
balance is expected to be completed very shortly.
Loan No. 672   Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of May 20, 1970; Effective
Date: August 20, 1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The projects (including the First Jengka Triangle Land Settlement
Project which has been completed) consist of clearing the forest, planting
62,000 acres of oil palm and 35,000 acres of rubber, and settling 10,000
families in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA), responsible for the execution of the projects,
operates efficiently, keeping high standards of planting and maintenance.
Physical works under the Second Project (Loan 672-MA) have been satisfactorily
completed. Under the Third Project (Loan 885-MA) clearing and planting
have been completed. Delays of about six months in the planting program and
in infrastructure development will result in similar delays in housing and
settler intake. Standards of agricultural development under both projects
are generally satisfactory.
Loan No. 700   Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of July 16, 1970;
Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: April 30,
1977
The Fifth Power Project (the third stage extension of the Port Dickson
Thermal Power Station, 3 x 120 MW) is complete with all three units in
satisfactory operation. The loan was fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan No. 753   Second Telecommunications Project; US$18.7 Million Loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date: August 18, 1971; Closing
Date: February 28, 1977
Project execution is substantially complete. The two pending work
items are likely to be completed by the end of 1977. Disb,ursements have been
completed and the loan account has been closed.
Loan No. 774   Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Work has been satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota
Kinabalu and Sandakan. Slow progress in completing the access road to
Sandakan delayed full use of the latter facilities until mid-1977. The new
headquarters building has been occupied. The total and foreign exchange
costs of the works are now estimated to be US$47.1 million and US$24.4 million
respectively, about 1.5 times the appraisal estimate. Settlement of a large
outstanding claim will delay the final account and the closing date of the
loan has been extended by one year to December 31, 1977.
Loan 799 Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date: April 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978
All equipment and materials have been received. However, project
completion has been further delayed due to the damage caused by heavy rains
to the earth works on the Port Dickson line. Malayan Railway (MR) operations
showed an all-round improvement during 1976 although the key efficiency
indicators were well below acceptable standards, especially those pertaining
to locomotive and rolling stock maintenance. As a result of the successful
marketing drive, freight traffic during 1976 registered a recovery for the
first time in five years and increased by 24% over 1975 levels. Passenger
traffic continues to grow modestly. These results are expected to produce
MR's first annual profit since 1962. Audit reports are two years in arrears
due to the delay in submission of accounts to the Auditor General by MR.
Efforts are being made to clear the backlog.
Loan No. 810    Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5L
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. Implementation has improved but is
still about two years behind schedule mainly due to delays in the appointment
of consultant architects in the approval of the designs and the campus plan
and in the preparation of documents by the Public Works Department. Staff
shortages in the project unit have also contributed to the delays. The delays
are reflected in slow disbursements, but the problem is currently being
addressed by the Bank and the Government. Project cost overruns are expected
to be financed by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 851   Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project (Highway I);
US$16.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1972; Effective
Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1978
The project is designed to improve the transport facilities between
Kuala Lumpur and the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. It consists of improvement
of about six miles of Federal Route 2, including detailed engineering, widening
of the road, construction of interchanges and cycle tracks, and relocation of
services. Civil works are about 11 months behind schedule, due to initial short-
comings in the contractor's project management. These problems have since been
overcome and implementation is being accelerated. The project also includes
a transport study for metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (completed), a national road
maintenance study (draft final report completed), and detailed engineering of
about 137 miles of Federal Route 1 (completed).
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The civil works component continues to make progress. Out of,571
buildings, 127 have now been completed and another 101 are under construction.
Tenders have been awarded for an additional 17 buildings. Until recently,
the most delayed construction component has been the provision of 31 Family
Planning Clinics. This has now been corrected and of the 31 clinics two are
now in the stage of preparation of tender documents. Preparation of layout
site plans has been started for another 12 clinics. The National Family
Planning Board (NFPB) has selected a supplier for the computer to handle the
management information system; a draft contract is being prepared. A review
of the project was carried out by an external team of experts in April.
Program performance in    1976 was even better than in 1975 when the number
of new acceptors was the highest since 1971.
Loan No. 908   Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14. 1973; Effective Date: August 27. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities
to meet increasing demand in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
first part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was virtually
completed in 1976, practically on schedule and within the cost estimate and most
of the works are in operation. The contract for the construction of the Langat
Dam was awarded late, in mid-1976, but construction is now progressing satisfac-
torily. The dam is expected to be completed by the end of 1979, more than two
years behind schedule, and will cost about 25% more than originally estimated.
However, no difficulties are foreseen in raising the additional funds required.
The Selangor State Water Department, which is responsible for the Project,
performs well in spite of staffing problems. Its financial management still
needs some strengthening.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
Overall, the project is about 70% complete. Many of the earlier
problems (land acquisition, eviction of squatters from right-of-way, poor
contract management) which have delayed progress significantly have been
largely overcome. The Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was opened in October
1977. Consulting services for various studies and detailed engineering have
been completed. Construction costs have escalated sharply because of rapid
inflation, and the total project cost is now estimated to be US$46 million,
compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 65,000 acres
of oil palm and settling 4,400 families in the state of Johore. The agri-
cultural development is progressing satisfactorily in line with the appraisal
estimates. Delays in road development, due in part to coordination problems
between FELDA and Kejora (a regional development authority) have delayed
settler intake by up to two years. However, improvements are noticeable since
construction of roads is now being contracted to private contractors, and
since responsibility for coordination has been unified under the Ministry of
Lands and Regional Development.
Loan No. 973    Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes the construction of integrated drainage systems,
roads, and agricultural installations required to accelerate agricultural
development in the smallholder tree crop region along the west coast of the
state of Johore. The project is still nearly two years behind the original
schedule due to substantial redesign of project works in 1974 and an across-
the-board Government hiring freeze in 1975-76. However, all major drainage
basin systems have been designed and 10 of 11 basin contracts have been
tendered. Work is essentially completed for force account works. Agricultural
Development Centers, and one basin contract, and a second basin contract is
considerably advanced. Agricultural developments in the project area have
begun to demonstrate the beneficial effects of improved major drainage, in
terms of tree crop replanting and accelerated intercropping.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
preservice teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation is about 12 months behind schedule due to earlier
delays in the selection of sites for the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).
Contracts have been awarded for 8 out of 13 project institutions. Con-
struction began in early 1976 and most of the project institutes are scheduled
for completion in late 1978. The estimated total project cost is about 25%
over the appraisal estimate. The Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1031 Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30.
1980
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Progress of the Sixth Power Project (275 kV transmission lines
from Temengor to Papan and from Port Dickson to Malacca and extension
of transmission and distribution system) and, the Seventh Power Project (the
Prai Power Station extension, 3 x 120 MW) is generally satisfactory.
Based on the Bank's recommendation, the Government has agreed to
apply fuel surcharges to commercial and industrial consumers since mid-1975
and to provide NEB with equity of about US$200 million on a year by year
basis to bridge NEB's financial gap. Maximum demand and energy sales for
FY77 were 975-MW and 5,253 GWH respectively (15% above FY76 levels).
Loan No. 1044, Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 55,000
acres of oil palm, settling 3,400 families, constructing two palm oil mills
and establishing two urban settlements. The agricultural development is
progressing satisfactorily. However, progress of urban development and of
phasing in nonagricultural activities is still unsatisfactory. Lack of
progress in the construction of village infrastructure and housing has caused
delays in settler intake. The supervision mission's findings and recommen-
dations for corrective measures were transmitted to the implementing agency,
the Pahang Tenggara Development Authority and the Ministry of Land and
Regional Development under which control of regional authorities and land
development agencies has recently been unified. The development of the urban
infrastructure is being reviewed by the Bank's Urban Projects Department.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation continues to fall further behind schedule.
However, the major bottleneck (terms and conditions of employment of inter-
nationally recruited scientists) was overcome with the Government's approval
of "Terms and Conditions of Employment" on August 19, 1976 and acceptance
by the Bank on September 22,1976. Project implementation has also been
constrained by three changes in Directors since appraisal. However, the
recent appointment of the former General Manager of MADA as Director General
(June 1977) gives promise for the dynamic leadership required to strengthen
and expand research activities under the project. This is the first indica-
tion that the project could show some progess. Action is also being taken
to expedite procurement under local procedures and disbursements have
started. Little physical progress can be expected by early 1978.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for the sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It
includes extension of sewers (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral sewers)
to serve an additional population of 200,000 in Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory;
establishment of a separate Sewerage Department within Kuala Lumpur City Hall
with its own finance and accounting system; engineering and management con-
sultants services; staff training; and preparation of pollution control
measures for the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. The project is in its
initial stage. It has started about six months behind schedule because of
delays in engaging consultants but can be completed on time. Work is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will
be improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although the
project is essentially an urban transport project, it also contains important
components and initiatives in other urban sectors such as squatter upgrading
and development of new low-cost settlements. The main components are: (a)
about 7 miles of new roads and 10 miles of road improvements; (b) traffic
engineering and control schemes; (c) sites and services for about 1,400
households and 150 businesses; (d) upgrading of infrastructure services for
about 2,100 households, and (e) feasibility and engineering studies for a
Kuantan Urban Development Project and for a national sites and services pro-
gram. Related policy measures include the introduction of minibus services,
traffic priorities for high-occupancy vehicles and area road pricing.
Progress is generally satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1294  North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes the Lemal Irrigation component which will
provide drainage and flood protection to 30,000 gross ha of farmland and
intensive irrigation to 12,000 net ha of paddy; construdtion of 190 km of
rural roads throughout North Kelantan; 15 small irrigation schemes serving
1,300 ha of paddy; construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 25 Farmers
Development Centers (FDC); and establishment of an effective agricultural
extension service for Kelantan. The project start-up period has seen rapid
implementation of the FDC component, good progress on the agricultural
extension component with planning, staffing and preparation of equipment
specifications proceeding on schedule and a welcome degree of cooperation
between the Farmers Organization Authority and the Kelantan Department of
Agriculture in joint planning of agricultural service buildings and field
operations. Some delay in engineering of roads and irrigation works has
occurred due to delays in approval of staff, but this problem appears to have
been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress exisiting imbalances in the provision of primary education
by providing additional classrooms in poverty areas, facilities for teacher
training and one teacher training college in Sarawak. The project includes
three new Industrial Training Centers and expansion of two existing ones. It
includes also a study on community education in preparation of government
investment in nonformal education. Project implementation began in January
1977 and appears satisfactory.  Problems in the processing of disbursements
have been resolved.  Shortage of staff in the Project Unit is being remedied
by the Government.  Disbursements are expected to start on schedule in the
first half of FY78.
Loan No. 1376  Third Highway Prolect; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main objective of the project is to improve the highway network
in the East Malaysian State of Sabah through the reconstruction and upgrading
of priority links and the development of the Public Works Department's
maintenance capacity. A further objective is to protect road investments in
Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening
program in three states. The project also includes an urban study of Kota
Kinabalu in Sabah and a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia. The
project is still in the early stages of implementation. While good progress
has been made in implementing the road program in Peninsular Malaysia, some
delays have occurred in getting the Sabah road components of the project
underway. Construction works on the East and West Coast Roads in Sabah
started in July 1977. The consulting services for the studies are generally
on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable for Key Points
(a)  Timetable for country to prepare the project:   Project is part of the
Government's effort to strengthen agricultural research and extension
which began with the setting up of MARDI in 1969. This institute was
expanded under the project financed by Loan 1115-MA.
(b)  Project prepared by:   Extension Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture,
assisted by FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c)  First presentation to IBRD:          July 1975
Preparation mission:               October 1975/May 1976
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:      October 1976
(e)  Completion of negotiations:          October 1977
Negotiations were delayed by the Government which had to get approval
for increasing certain state budgets in order to permit adequate
cost sharing.
(f)  Estimated date of effectiveness:     March 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        At negotiations it was agreed that a condition of effectiveness
would be that the Borrower shall have authorized the following posts and
appointed qualifed staff to such posts:
(i)  Project Director, Peninsular Malaysia;
(ii) Project Leader for Rural Extension, Training and Development
Centers;
(iii) Project Leader for Seeds; and
(iv) Project Leader for Soil ConservatioiA.
2.        In addition, the following special conditions were agreed to:
(a) The Borrower will be asked to manage the fellowship program under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 32).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) The Borrower will be asked to submit to the Bank by June 30, 1979
the findings of an analysis regarding pre-service and in-service
training requirements of agricultural agencies other than the DOA
(para. 30).
(c) The Borrower will be asked to establish and maintain a seeds fund to
provide adequate operating capital for the purchase of seeds at a
premium price from farmer growers and to cover operating deficits
(para. 37).
(d)  The Borrower will be asked to review by January 31,1980 the pricing
policy for seeds with a view to establish seed production on a
self-financing basis (para. 38).
(e) The Borrower will be asked to appoint for each state a chief extension
officer responsible for day-to-day operational and administrative
matters associated with the project by June 30, 1978 (para. 40).
(f) The Borrower will be asked to set up an appropriate monitoring and
evaluation system for extension and related activities by
January 31, 1980 (para. 47).



