Report No 1555a;MA                                                               Fit;     0I    P l
Malaysia
Appraisal of the National Extension Project
October 26, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1             =       M$2.52
M$I              =       US$0.39
M$I million    =         US$389,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I acre (ac)             =      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)             =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi) =        640 acres (ac) = 2.59 sq km
1 gantang               =      5.5 lb
1 picul                 =      133.3 lb
GENERAL ABBREVIATIONS
AFB    - Area Forward Base (Sarawak)
AI     - Agricultural Institute
ATC    - Agricultural Training Center (Sabah & Sarawak)
AVS    - Agricultural Vocational School (Sabah)
CPC    - Crop Production Center (primarily for seeds production)
DID    - Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    - Department of Agriculture
ELU    - Extension Liaison Unit
ESC    - Extension Subcenter (Peninsular Malaysia & Sarawak)
FA     - Farmers' Association
FDC    - Farmers' Development Center
FELCRA - Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority
FELDA  - Federal Land Development Authority
FO     - Farmers' Organization
FOA    - Farmers' Organization Authority
GON    - Government of Malaysia
KADA   - Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
MADA   - Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI  - Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
MOA    - Ministry of Agriculture
PB     - Padi Board
RATC   - Rural Agricultural Training Center
RETDC  - Regional Extension Training and Development Center
RFB    - Rubber Fund Board
RISDA  - Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
RPS    - Rubber Planting Scheme
RRI    - Rubber Research Institute
RTC    - Rural Training Center (Sabah)
SARDEC - State Agricultural Research Development and
Extension Committee
SAU    -  Small Agricultural Unit
SDOA   -  State Department of Agriculture
SEDC   -  State Economic Development Corporation
SELU   -  State Extension Liaison Unit
SLDB   -  State Land Development Board
SMP    -  Second Malaysia Plan
TMP    -  Third Malaysia Plan
STAFF ABBREVIATIONS
AA        -  Agricultural Assistant
AA (HE)  -  Agricultural Assistant (Home Economics)
AAO       -  Assistant Agricultural Officer
AD        -  Assistant Director
ADED      -  Assistant Director of Education
ADF       -  Assistant Director of Field
ADR       -  Assistant Director of Research
ADV       -  Assistant Director of Veterinary
AE        -  Agricultural Economist
AHD       -  Assistant Home Demonstrator
AHO       -  Animal Husbandry Officer
ALDO      -  Assistant Land Development Officer
ARDO      -  Assistant Rubber Development Officer
AT        -  Agricultural Technician
AVO       -  Assistant Veterinary Officer
DA        -  Director of Agriculture
DDA       -  Deputy Director of Agriculture
FO        -  Fisheries off icer
FRO       -  Fisheries Research Officer
HD        -  Home Demonstrator
HES       -  Home Economics Supervisor
JAR       -  Junior Agricultural Assistant
JAR (SG) -  Junior Agricultural Assistant (Special Grade)
JAHA      -  Junior Animal Husbandry Assistant
JHD       -  Junior Home Demonstrator
LO        -  Livestock Officer
METU      -  Mechanization Extension Training Unit
PO        -  Publicity/Publication Officer
PP        -  Plant Pathologist
RS        -  Rural Sociologist
SAA       -  Senior Agricultural Assistant
SAO       -  Senior Agricultural Officer
SVO       -  Senior Veterinary Officer
VO        -  Veterinary Officer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ....  .  .  .    .  .    . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .  i-. t
1.   INTRODUCTION . . .  .  ......  ....  ...  .......  ....  .......  ....  ...... . .
2.   BACKGROUND .. . .  ..    .  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  1
General  ....  .    ......  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Agricultural Sector  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .    2
Area Cultivated  . . . . .    .. .......  . ..  .  .       .    . .2
The Target Groups  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . .3
Extension Services in Malaysia ... . . . . .                          4
Agricultural Subsidies .... ..........  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..    6
Research-         .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Training ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .........  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Seeds Industry . . . ..... . ................                         8
3.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Project Summary .       .      .   .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Project Formulation and Objectives ............... .   10
Detailed Features ..        .  . . . . .   . . .  . . . . . . . .   10
Extension (Overall Proposals) . ... .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Extension Training Details.     . . .  .  .  . .     .             11
Extension Methodology. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Seeds Component  ...   . . ............. .......  .  .  .   .   14
Technical Assistaiice ... .  .    .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Monitoring and Evaluation  ... .  .       .......  .  .    .  .  .   .   15
4.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ... .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
Federal and State Government Extension Relationships . . . . . .   16
Administrative and Functional Linkages . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Organization at the End of the Project Implementation Period . .   18
Implementation Schedule . .. .  18
Accounts and Audit... 19
5.   COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS  . . . . . . . .   19
Project Costs            . . . .... . .    19
Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Disbursement... .  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
6.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Economic Analysis.. ...............  24
Annual Incremental Extension Operating Costs . . . . . . . . . .  25
Farm  Incomes   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
Risk   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  27
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .   28
7.  RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
ANNEXES
1. Peninsular Malaysia - Agricultural Extension Component
2. Sabah - Extension Component
3. Sarawak - Extension Component
4. Seeds Component
5. Training Component
6. Project Implementation and Cost Summary, Finance and Disbursements
7. Benefits and Justification
N.B. Staff working tables for Annex 6 are in a supplementary volume,
Report No. 1555a-s-MA
CHARTS
Attached to Main Text
WB17604 - Peninsular Malaysia - Extension Service - Organization
During Project
WB17277 - Federal Department of Agriculture Organization
Annex 1
WB17603 - State Extension Service Organization - Peninsular Malaysia
WB17602 - Peninsular Malaysia - Extension Service - Federal Level
Present Organization
Annex 2
WB16924 - Agricultural Extension, Training, and Seeds Project Organization
WB16925 - Department of Agriculture - Sabah - Organization Chart
WB16926 - Organization of Extension Branch - Sabah
WB16928 - Organization of the Agricultural Information Service - Sabah



- 3 -
WB17601 -  Organization of the FA within the Extension Branch - Sabah
WB16930 -  Organization of Department of Veterinary Services - Sabah
Annex 3
WB16936 -  Functional Organization of DOA Components - Sarawak
WB16937 -  Organization of the Field & Education Branches for Extension - Sarawak
WBl6938 -  Organization of the Sarawak District Agriculture Office with ESC
WBI7101 -  Organization of the Department of Agriculture - Sarawak
Annex 4
WB17048 -  Seeds Production Organization
WB17278 -  Proposed Staff Deployment for the Seeds Subproject






MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        This proposed project is a follow-up to the Malaysian Government's
program to strengthen agricultural research and the extension services, which
was assisted under the Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA) and
would strengthen agricultural services at the state level. The project is of
high priority because of its major contribution to achieving the Third
Malaysia Plan (TMP) objective of assisting the poorest rural sector of Malaysian
society. The project would endeavor to make the benefits of improved tech-
nology available to those farmers who have not benefited from specific devel-
opment projects, such as irrigation, land settlement and rubber replanting;
and particularly those farmers who presently lack the knowledge or resources
to adopt improved technology. This would be accomplished through an expanded
and intensified extension training and farmer education effort to reduce the
gap between known technology and the application of technology on the farm.
Major emphasis would initially be on improved crop husbandry.
2.        The proposed project's objective would be to increase agricultural
production, and raise the income and standard of living of about one million
rural families throughout Malaysia. These represent more than 80% of the
rural families served by the Department of Agriculture (DOA) extension service
and comprise the majority of the poorest group in the agricultural sector.
They are the padi farmers, coconut farmers, and mixed crop farmers who rely
on rainfed agriculture and cultivate about 1.5 million acres in Peninsular
Malaysia and 1.0 million acres in Sabah and Sarawak.
3.        The proposed project would achieve these objectives through:
(a) substantial recruitment of new extension staff;
(b) expansion and upgrading of pre-service agricultural
training; and
(c) expansion and upgrading of in-service extension training;
provision of training fellowships; improvement of extension
methods (including regular programs of training and farm
visits); expansion and improvement of quality seed production;
and technical assistance for the above activities.
4.        The proposed project would strengthen the existing state extension
services within the context of an established operational organization which
is basically sound, but deficient because of staff shortages and inadequately
trained and poorly equipped staff. Over the five-year project period, the
number of field level staff would be increased by 67% from 780 (a ratio of
1:1,300 farm families) to 1,340 (1:800). Provision would be made for main-
taining and increasing the technical knowledge of all extension staff through
periodic in-service training. Extension activities would also be strengthened
by the provision of additional supporting subject matter specialists; by the
construction of Extension Subcenters (ESCs) and Area Forward Bases (AFBs) to



- ii -
provide the operational base (including staff housing) for extension activities
where existing facilities are inadequate; and by the provision of equipment,
fellowships and technical assistance.
5.        Total project cost is estimated at US$46.3 million, of which
US$19.0 million (41%) would be foreign exchange. Extension, at a cost of
about US$26.0 million (excluding training), would be the major component of
the project. Total extension component capital and operating cost would be
US$26.0 per farm family under the project.
6.        The cost of extension in-service and pre-service training and related
agricultural services training would be US$15.3 million and would provide for
an average of three weeks' periodic training for more than 2,500 agricultural
field officers each year at five Regional Extension Training and Development
Centers (RETDCs); four in the Peninsula (serving all 11 states) and one in
Sarawak. The Agricultural Vocational School (AVS) in Sabah would be streng-
thened by the provision of facilities and equipment so as to better utilize
its present capacity for 190 students and to turn out 60 qualified three-year
certificate level operatives each year. Additional facilities would be
provided at the AVS for RETDC in-service training. An Agricultural Institute
(AI) with a capacity to train 125 operatives annually and a combined RETDC
in-service training facility with a 300 acre school farm would be provided
in Sarawak. One hundred and sixty-six man-years of fellowships would also be
provided for specialized undergraduate and postgraduate training to upgrade
management and technical staff.
7.        The seeds component would cost US$5.0 million and would have a
capacity to produce annually at full development 2,000 tons of improved padi
seed and 400 tons of minor crop seeds in Peninsular Malaysia; 200 tons of
padi seed, 150 tons of minor crop seeds in Sabah; and 250 tons of padi seed
and up to 50 tons of minor crop seeds in Sarawak. This would increase the
availability of improved seeds from the present 5% to more than 15% of the
annual requirement.
8.        Implementation would take five years and the Director General of
the Federal DOA would have responsibility for project implementation. The
Federal Director of the DOA's Extension Branch would become the National
Extension Project Director and would coordinate project implementation for
all states. The State Directors of Agriculture in Sabah and Sarawak would
be Assistant Project Directors. Each State Director of Agriculture would
have overall responsibility for the execution of the extension component by
the state's Chief Extension Officer.
9.        Civil works construction (about US$14.0 million) to be financed
under the proposed project would consist of relatively small and scattered
contracts (averaging less than US$100,000) and would be awarded following
local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. About US$8.0 million of
larger civil works contracts (costing more than US$400,000 each) would be
awarded under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
procurement guidelines. Contracts for materials, equipment and vehicles
(about US$7.5 million) would also be awarded under international competitive



bidding in accordance with these guidelines. Consulting services totaling 8.5
man-years would be engaged under terms and conditions of service satisfactory
to the Bank. A total of 166 man-years of fellowslt4-q for undergraduate,
graduate and postgraduate training would be managed under annual programs
acceptable to the Bank. The total cost of consultants and fellowships would
be about US$4.0 million.
10.       Implementation of agricultural subsidy programs is already a major
activity of the extension service and these programs are being increased with-
out adequate knowledge of their impact on agricultural production. In order
to establish operational and policy guidelines for extension and subsidy
programs the DOA would develop and implement an evaluation and monitoring
system. The UNDP/IBRD State Rural Development Project specialists would
assist the DOA in the development of a suitable monitoring and evaluation
system. The project proposes to progressively release extension staff from
subsidy programs and regulatory functions and emphasize educational activities,
i.e. training, visits and demonstrations.
11.       The proposed project would raise the productivity and income of
approximately one million rural families in Malaysia. Conservative calcula-
tions show that the incremental production that can be expected from the project
would generate an economic rate of return of at least 25%. Investment in exten-
sion and training components of the project would be financed from budgetary
allocations and would not be directly recoverable. However, the seeds component
of the project would eventually be self-financing and should generate a 14%
financial rate of return on investment.
12.       Risks inherent in this administratively complex project were fully
considered and were taken into account with respect to phasing, and estimates
of costs and benefits. In view of the high priority that the Government
attaches to assisting the poorest rural sector of Malaysian society and the
benefits that would accrue to a large number of rural families and the economy,
the risks are acceptable.
13.       The proposed project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$19.0 mil-
lion with a 17-year maturity and a grace period of 3-1/2 years. The borrower
would be the Federation of Malaysia.






MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
i. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has asked the Bank to assist with
the expansion and upgrading of its agricultural extension, training, and
seed production programs for Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak over the
five-year period 1978-82. The proposed project would increase the number
and upgrade the training of extension field staff and specialists, and
provide additional buildings, staff quarters and equipment, which together
would improve the quality of extension services. Controlled and expanded
seed production would make improved seeds for the principal crops available
to all farmers. Project components would be designed to meet the more
varied agricultural requirements of Sabah and Sarawak and provide pre-service
as well as in-service training. This would be the twelfth Bank loan in
support of agricultural development in Malaysia, but only the first Pan-
Malaysian agricultural loan, since this project would include Sabah and
Sarawak.
1.02      The project was identified initially under Loan 1115-MA and prepared
by the Federal DOA, assisted by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Malaysia in
October and November 1976, composed of Messrs. C. Downing, P. Dax, N. Owens,
B. Woods (Bank) and G. Alcorn, M. Barker, and F. Jessup (consultants).
2. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Malaysia covers an area of 333,000 sq km, of which 132,000 sq km
are in the 11 states of Peninsular Malaysia and the remaining 60% in the
Borneo states of Sarawak and Sabah. Of the total population of 12.3 million
in 1976, 10.2 million live in Peninsular Malaysia, 1.2 million in Sarawak,
and 0.9 million in Sabah. The ethnic composition of the population is approx-
imately 47% Malay, 34% Chinese, and 9% Indian, with the remainder chiefly
consisting of groups indigenous to Sabah and Sarawak (Dayaks, Kadazans,
Ibans, Bajaus, and others) and a small Eurasian com-aunity. While almost all
padi farmers in Peninsular Malaysia are Malays, in Sarawak and Sabah they are
members of indigenous tribal groups.
2.02      With a per capita income of US$720 in 1975, Malaysia is one of the
most prosperous countries in Asia. The economy has maintained fairly high
rates of growth, averaging 6% per annum during the last decade. This trend
slowed down to 1% growth in 1975, due to softening of international commodity
prices following the boom years of 1973 and 1974 when commodity prices and Gross
National Product (GNP) growth peaked. The estimated GNP growth in 1976 again
rose above trend to nearly 9%, and Malaysia's external reserves (US$2.3 billion
in SepteDn½er 1976) rose to a level equal to about nine months of net imports at
current levels.



-2-
2.03      The economy is export oriented.  In 1973, exports accounted for
almost 50% of GNP, principally rubber (US$1,045 million), tin (US$366 million),
timber (US$630 million) and palm oil (US$190 million).
Agricultural Sector
2.04      The agricultural sector holds a pre-eminent position in the Malaysian
economy. In 1974 it generated around 30% of Gross Domestic Product, provided
employment for about 50% of the economically active population and accounted
for upwards of 60% of Malaysia's foreign exchange earnings. Expansion of
rubber exports in the 1960s in the face of declining prices was achieved by
large gains in productivity. At the same time, diversification to oil palm was
vigorously encouraged and now accounts for 10% of the country's export earnings.
Malaysia has become the world's largest producer of palm oil. Rice production
has been increased through the provision of irrigation, high-yielding varieties
(HYVs) and double cropping, and Malaysia is now nearing self-sufficiency in
rice. Malaysia is one of the world's major producers of pineapples, though
it is finding it increasingly difficult to maintain its share of the export
market. Cocoa and pepper are also important export crops. Other major crops,
such as coconut, coffee, fruits and vegetables, are grown mainly for domestic
consumption.
Area Cultivated
2.05      Area Cultivated and Principal Crops in Malaysia
(a)  Of the 8 million cultivated acres /1 in Peninsular Malaysia in
1975, rubber occupied 4,237,000 acres, oil palm 1,280,000 acres,
coconut 528,000 acres. More than 6 million acres was under tree
crops. Of the remaining acres, 1,000,000 was under padi
(about 40% of it double cropped). Other significant crop acreages
are pineapple 63,000, cocoa 63,000, tapioca 32,000, sugar 25,000,
tobacco 20,000, coffee 22,000, groundnuts 15,000, and smaller areas
of miscellaneous crops.
(b)  Of the 750,000 acres cultivated in Sabah rubber accounts for
260,000 acres, oil palm 135,000 acres, coconut 130,000 acres, padi
128,000 acres and horticultural crops 82,000 acres. Tree crops
account for all of the agricultural exports and the state imports
about 40% of its food requirements.
(c)  Of approximately one million acres cultivated in Sarawak about
50% is devoted to tree crops (primarily rubber and coconut) and
there are 270,000 acres of padi (lowland and upland). Mis-
cellaneous crops include pepper, cocoa, maize and horticultural
crops.
/1 With double cropping and intercropping, about 9 million acres would be
cropped annually.



2.06      Large estates in the private sector account for about half the pro-
duction of rubber and 40% of the production of oil palm, but the smallholder
proportion is increasing, especially in oil palm, where government policy
strongly favors building up the smallholder sector. There are also some
large coconut estates and two or three large pineapple estates. Cocoa is
rapidly becoming an important intercrop with coconuts.
The Target Groups
2.07      The dissatisfaction with the distribution of benefits of economic
growth and with growing ethnic income inequalities provides the rationale
of the Government's New Economic Policy. The major aims of this policy, as
expressed in the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) (1971-75), are: (a) to reduce
poverty by raising income levels and increasing employment opportunities for all
Malaysians, irrespective of race; and (b) to accelerate the process of restruc-
turing Malaysian society to correct economic imbalances so as to reduce, and
eventually eliminate, the identification of race with economic function. The
agricultural population includes some of the most economically depressed seg-
ments of the population and one of the results of the policy is to increase
the attention-given to raising rural incomes, especially those of smallholders.
Therefore, the proposed project would focus on strengthening and expanding
state agricultural services to the approximately one million rural families
that have not directly benefited from other development projects (paras. 2.08
and 2.09). The target groups for extension would include about 750,000 rural
families, mostly padi, coconut and other rainfed farm smallholders in Peninsular
Malaysia; 110,000 rural families in Sabah; 150,000 rural families in Sarawak;
and an undetermined number of farmers who practice shifting cultivation in
Sabah and Sarawak. The report "Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia" prepared
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, provides detailed information on rural
poverty in Peninsular Malaysia. These rural families make up more than 80%
of those served by the DOA (see Annex 1, paras. 3-5).
2.08      The major thrust of the Government's agricultural policy since the
early 1960s has been to develop new land for settlement of landless laborers
and marginal farmers mainly on rubber and oil palm smallholdings. These pro-
grams have been carried out mainly by the Federal Land Development Authority
(FELDA) and Bank finance has assisted five settlement schemes: Jengka I
(Loan 533-MA); Jengka II (Loan 672-MA); Jengka III (Loan 855-MA); Johore
Tenggara (Loan 967-MA); and Keratong (Loan 1044-MA).
2.09      Next to land development and settlement, government investment stra-
tegy has emphasized large-scale irrigation facilities to boost rice production
and incomes of padi smallholders. The two largest schemes have been assisted
by Bank loans: the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA) and the Kemubu
Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA). Although these major irrigation schemes have
been successful in introducing double cropping and greatly increasing yields,
there are few further opportunities for large-scale irrigation schemes.
2.10      With the formation of a semi-autonomous Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute (MARDI) in 1969, Malaysia embarked on a
systematic program to improve agricultural technology. The Bank is financing
the strengthening and expansion of MARDI's research programs for crops and
livestock under the Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA). As a



- 4 -
follow-up to strengthening research and extension at the federal level, GOM
took the first step to strengthen extension and seed production at the state
level under the North Kelantan Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA). The
proposed national extension project would strengthen and expand the existing
agricultural services, extension, training, and quality seeds production in
all states of Malaysia with the objective of increasing agricultural production
and rural income (see Section 6).
2.11      The focus of the proposed project would be on those areas and rural
families that have not previously benefited from project-specific extension.
The beneficiaries would primarily be padi and coconut growers, many of whom
practice mixed farming; it would also include smallholder rubber growers who
practice mixed farming. Padi farmers in particular often grow vegetables and
groundnuts either in rotation or in the same seasonal period as their primary
crop. Livestock and cocoa are becoming increasingly important with coconut
growers. The SMP and TMP have emphasized crop diversification (rotation) and
intercropping as a means of increasing the income of small farmers, though as
the FAO/IBRD CP poverty report indicates, both are severely handicapped by
inadequate extension services. This project would aim to overcome this
constraint and assist more farmers to increase production and income from
primary as well as secondary crops.
Extension Services in Malaysia
2.12      Agricultural services, including extension, are state responsi-
bilities under the Malaysian constitution. In Peninsular Malaysia, the
Federal Government establishes agricultural policy and provides managerial,
technical and financial support to each of the states. The State Directors
of Agriculture and senior agricultural service officers are federal employees
under the administrative control of the states. Federal Government involvement
in management and its financial support provide sufficient control and influence
for planning and implementation of developmental activities. The intermediate
and operational agricultural staff are state employees. This arrangement
provides essential coordination and integration of the state function of
extension and the federal functions of agricultural policy, subject matter
support, research, training and education. At the same time authority and
responsibility for day-to-day activities remain at the local level and pro-
grams are implemented by staff who are familiar with local customs, problems
and procedures (details are contained in Annexes 1, 2 and 3). In the context
of the present project, the most important areas of institutional autonomy in
Peninsular Malaysia are: (a) all responsibility for rubber smallholder devel-
opment is delegated to the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDA); (b) input supply and marketing at the farm level are for the most part
handled by the private commercial sector, but are also carried out by the
Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA) (basically an input supply and marketing
cooperative organization); (c) the DOA is responsible for extension services;
and (d) research is the responsibility of MARDI, which is semi-autonomous.
2.13      In Sabah and Sarawak the organizational and functional structure of
the State Departments of Agriculture (SDOAs) is different and separate from
the Federal DOA. All staff, including the State Director of Agriculture, are
MOA state employees responsible only to the State Ministry of Agriculture.



- 5 -
Furthermore, such activities as research, farm cooperatives (FAs) and agri-
cultural education and training are the responsibility of the SDOA. The Sabah
Padi Board is responsible for input supply and marketing for irrigated padi
production and the Sabah Rubber Fund Board (SRFB) is responsible for all
rubber production and agricultural services including extension. However,
there is close cooperation between the SDOA extension service and the SRFB in
areas where rubber growers practice mixed farming. These organizational and
functional differences in East Malaysia broaden the scope of the project and
would facilitate the efficient implementation of the extension component of
the project.
2.14      The quantity and quality of extension services (farm, home and
community) vary from state to state throughout Malaysia depending on their
resources and stage of agricultural development. The state extension services
have one thing in common, however, an inadequate number of trained and equipped
field level extension officers to advise and assist the rural population.
Extension workers' educational functions are further constrained by the fact
that they are involved in regulatory functions and administration of subsidy
schemes. They also play an important role in ensuring fertilizer, seeds and
planting materials are available to many farmers. The project would aim to
strengthen and expand extension services in all states in the context of the
existing federal and state organizations, with major emphasis on the least
developed and poorer states (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
2.15      The following weaknesses of the extension services have been
identified.
(a) There are too few staff engaged in extension at the farm level. The
present coverage of one extension agricultural technician (AT) to
1,300 farm families means that regular contact can only be maintained
with a small proportion of farmers.
(b)  The ATs receive insufficient training and technical updating to
enable them to offer adequate advice.
(c) In upgrading the scientific base of the extension service more
subject matter specialists (SMSs) are required to backstop extension
workers.
(d)  There is a general lack of planning, coordination and evaluation of
extension work. The supervisory staff, Agricultural Officers (AOs)
and Agricultural Assistants (AAs) do not receive any training in
personnel man&gcment or project planning.
(e)  ATs perform a number of statutory and regulatory duties in addition
to extension work.
(f) The present chains of command within the extension service are unclear.
The SDOA has no direct control over the SMSs who consequently do not
always give the necessary priority to extension work.
(g) Although SDOAs have ultimate responsibility for extension, several
states do not have a State Chief Extension Officer.



-6-
(h) There is still some duplication of effort among agencies carrying
out extension work (but this is being corrected).
(i) Research and extension still tend to operate in isolation but steps
to facilitate a closer working relationship are being developed
(paras. 2.19-2.21).
(j) The practice of applying rigid criteria, based on levels of academic
qualification, for appointment to different grades is a constraint
to the efficient deployment of agricultural staff.
Agricultural Subsidies
2.16      Agricultural input subsidies are a regular part of extension in
Malaysia (US$6.0 million under the SMP and more than US$23.8 million under the TMP
in Peninsular Malaysia alone). The principal objectives of the subsidy
schemes are: (a) to introduce farmers to new crops; (b) to demonstrate to
participants (and their neighbors) the benefits of improved agricultural
practices; (c) to assume some of the risk of innovation when farmers cannot be
expected to do so; and (d) to grant initial working capital to farmers who
have no opportunity for savings during the maturation period of investments.
Subsidies are primarily provided in the form of inputs (some free, and others
at reduced cost to the farmer) and consist mainly of seeds, planting materials,
fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides. The extension service is primarily
responsible for administration and implementation of most agricultural subsi-
dies, and although they do have a positive demonstration effect and serve as
an incentive to poorer and less progressive farmers to adopt new technology
and accept extension advice, in terms of time required for implementation,
subsidy programs detract from the extension workers' primary education function.
Moreover, subsidy schemes are being increased while there is a lack of informa-
tion on their benefits. The proposed project would establish an extension and
subsidy monitoring and evaluation program to assess achievement and provide
guidelines for future subsidy programs (see paras. 3.22-3.25).
Research
2.17      Agricultural research is carried out by MARDI, whose program is
assisted by Loan 1115-I5A. While MARDI is a semi-autonomous institution under
the federal 2IOA, the Sabah and Sarawak Agricultural Research Stations operate
as divisions of the respective state MOAs.
2.18      In compliance with the objectives of the TMP, MARDI has implemented a
"Development Oriented Research Program" providing greater emphasis to local
and regional research and on-farm trials and demonstrations. These activities,
normally considered an extension function, would supplement extension demonstra-
tion and at the same time make research more responsive to farmers' immediate
problems.
2.19      The extension and seeds components of the proposed project complement
the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-M1A), which focuses
on strengthening crop research related to smallholder farming, i.e. rice, field
crops (groundnuts, maize, soybeans, cassava, etc.), coconut/cocoa and livestock.



- 7 -
Thus the research organization that Loan 1115-MA is assisting would provide
agricultural information as well as foundation seeds for existing and new
varieties of rice and field crops. Additional information on agricultural
research in Malaysia is contained in the appraisal report for Loan 1115-MA,
and in Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this report.
2.20      The Extension Liaison Unit (ELU), established under Loan 1115-MA as
an integral part of the Federal Extension Branch of the DOA, would be the main
channel of communication between MARDI, DOA and the SDOAs. An additional link,
the State Agricultural Research Development and Extension Committee (SARDEC),
has already been established in some states to bring local problems to the
attention of MARDI.
2.21      In view of the existing gap between known technology and that being
applied by most farmers, MARDI's research activities are already adequate to
support the extension and seeds component of this project. Additional measures
are being implemented to strengthen the support and coordination of research
and extension.  In particular the DOA and MARDI are organizing SARDECs to
coordinate activities between research and other agricultural services and
advise MARDI on state agricultural problems.
Training
2.22      Agricultural training is relatively advanced in Malaysia.  Profes-
sional training for degrees is offered at the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur and at the University Pertanian Malaysia
(UPM) at Serdang. Agricultural field staff receive pre-service operative-level
(vocational) training at six AIs which are well distributed throughout Peninsular
Malaysia. The ATs graduating from these institutes find employment principally
in government agencies such as DOA, RISDA, MARDI, FELDA and FOA. While ATs
receive a sound basic training, designed for a wide range of job careers, they
do not receive training specifically for extension. Furthermore, regularized
training programs and facilities are not available for in-service training of
extension or other agricultural service specialists.
2.23      The total residential capacity of the six Peninsular AIs is 1,680
but the institutes are only operating at 50% of capacity. A shortage of
scholarship funds has contributed to the inability to utilize the full capa-
city of the AIs. The Peninsular Malaysia extension component would require
400 additional ATs or about 15% of the projected output of the Peninsular AIs
during the project period. Funds for scholarships would be provided by the
Federal Government in order to ensure that an adequate number of trained
operatives (ATs) will be available for extension under the project. GOM is
taking action to strengthen the AIs and bring enrollment up to capacity
(Annex 5, para. 16).
2.24      Regularized in-service training programs to upgrade and update
agricultural service staff are urgently needed to improve and maintain the
technical knowledge of all field extension staff. Training programs and
facilities are needed to improve knowledge of extension techniques, communica-
tions and operational skills and farm management methods. The proposed



- 8 -
project would provide for this training through the establishment of four
RETDCs in Peninsular Malaysia and one RETDC facility in Sarawak. In Sabah,
additional RETDC facilities would be provided jointly with AVSs for in-service
training. Training of supervisory staff and SMSs is considered to be equally
important and therefore the project would provide for periodic courses in admin-
istration and personnel management as well as fellowships for overseas training.
2.25      The Education Television Program (financed under Loans 599-MA and
810-MA) has now established television receivers in almost every school in
Malaysia. While the primary function of these sets is to support formal
school education, they offer, at a minimum cost, a means of testing the use of
television in support of agricultural extension programs. In Malaysia, where
road communications provide a major constraint to extension work in many parts
of the country, the use of television may have very significant potential.
A pilot study would be conducted under the project to develop and test the use
of television for agricultural extension work, including in-service training
of field staff (Annex 5).
2.26      Programs and facilities for pre-service and in-service training
requirements, and for improving the quality of training programs, are discussed
in Annex 5.
Seeds Industry
2.27      Seed production is the responsibility of the Branch of Crop Produc-
tion in the DOA in Peninsular Malaysia. Most of the seed produced in Malaysia
is produced by five Crop Production Centers (CPCs) of this branch. In Sabah,
seed production is virtually restricted to padi, and is only about 15 tons per
year, produced by the SDOA and the Padi Board. In Sarawak, less than 40 tons
of padi seed are produced by the SDOA.
2.28      Present controlled padi seed production in all Malaysia is less
than 800 tons of improved seeds which would only plant about 5% of the total
annual padi crop area. In order to maintain varietal purity and sustain
yields farmers would on average purchase new seeds about once in five seasons;
progressive farmers would purchase new seeds more frequently. Raising padi
production to an acceptable standard would require at least a 300% increase in
padi seed production coupled with the normal farmer exchange of seeds. Con-
trolled production of minor crop seeds (maize, groundnuts, sorghum and soy-
beans) is negligible in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak. Introduc-
tion of improved seeds would be one of the major tasks of the extension
service under the project.
2.29      There has been no effective seed certification and very limited
quality control. Testing facilities at the CPCs allow only simple checks on
germination and viability. The main constraints to improved quality are
inadequate processing and storage facilities, and a shortage of trained staff
(Annex 4).



- 9 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Summary
3.01      The proposed project is designed to expand and strengthen the
extension services of the SDOAs throughout Malaysia and to develop and improve
seed production and quality control facilities. The project would consist of:
(a) Recruitment. Recruitment of about 80 senior staff (including
38 SMSs), about 580 ATs and about 400 support staff.
(b) Training
(i)   expanding and improving pre-service agricultural training
in Sabah and Sarawak;
(ii)   in-service training of extension staff; and
(iii)   provision of about 166 man-years of fellowships.
(c) Extension Methodology
(i)   improvement of agricultural extension methodology, including
implementation of regular programs of training and farm visits; and
(ii)   investigation of the use of television for extension purposes.
(d)  Seeds.  Expansion of seed production, improvement of seed quality
control and establishment of a seed fund for the purchase of premium
quality seeds from farmers.
(e)  Technical Assistance.  Provision of about 8.5 man-years of tech-
nical assistance for extension (3 man-years), seeds (2 man-years),
soil conservation (1 man-year), credit (0.5 man-year) and farm
mechanization (2 man-years).
(f)  Civil Works and Equipment.  The civil works and equipment under the
project would consist of construction of new buildings and expansion
and improvement of existing facilities, together with the supply of
related equipment, materials and vehicles. Details are as follows:
(i)   establishment of five RETDCs (four in Peninsular Malaysia
and one in Sarawak), one AI in Sarawak, and one Agricultural
Training Center (ATC) in Sabah and improvement of one AVS in
Sabah;
(ii)   establishment of about 40 ESCs in Peninsular Malaysia and
Sarawak, about 20 AFBs (village level extension posts) in
Sarawak, facilities for about 9 FAs and extension staff
housing and offices in Sabah;
(iii)   establishment of three CPCs (for seeds production), two in
Sabah and one in Sarawak, and expansion of five existing CPCs
in Peninsular Malaysia;



- 10 -
(iv)   establishment of one central seed quality control
laboratory in Peninsular Malaysia; and
(v)   establishment of one extension communications media
unit in Sarawak.
Project Formulation and Objectives
3.02      The existing federal and state DOA Extension Services are responsible
for all extension activities for all crops except rubber, which is legally
the responsibility of RISDA. The proposed national extension project would
aim to strengthen and expand the individual states' ability and capacity to
carry out this responsibility. The project would benefit about 80% of all
rural families, i.e. those which are not serviced by specialist extension
services (such as those of Muda Agricultural Development Authority, MADA, and
of Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority, KADA, for irrigation and FELDA
for land settlement) and part of the state of (Kelantan) services already
receiving assistance under other projects. The extension services in the
irrigation command areas and land settlement schemes, functionally the
responsibility of the SDOAs, are effective. Their effectiveness has been
achieved by the same means as proposed for the project, namely, (a) improved
management, (b) increased number of field level extension staff, (c) better
trained field staff, (d) more and better equipment and facilities, and (e)
regularized extension methodology. The proposed project basically follows
the pattern of the extension component of the North Kelantan Rural Development
Project (Loan 1294-MA). The only major difference are that the national
extension project would in addition provide for in-service training and seeds
production on a national basis. The basic aim of the project would be to
provide appropriate packages of technology (Annex 1, para. 10) to reduce the
gap between known technology and that now applied by the majority of smallholders.
It would focus especially on smallholders in poverty areas not yet benefiting
from project-specific extension upgrading.
3.03      The proposed project would be implemented by the DOAs under the
three Ministries of Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak.
The differences in project composition and in individual components, which are
described below, reflect the differences in agricultural development and
administration of the three regions as well as the varying scope of responsi-
bility of the three ministries. In Sabah and Sarawak, the relatively undevel-
oped state of agriculture and supporting infrastructure, as well as the more
comprehensive responsibility of their DOAs, requires a wider range of components
and a different emphasis than in Peninsular Malaysia.
Detailed Features
Extension (Overall Proposals)
3.04      The proposed project would build each SDOA into an effective institu-
tion to provide adequate extension services to smallholders and to ensure that
research results are translated into farm benefits. Total cost of this component
would be US$25.7 million.



3.05      The national average ratio of field level ATs (extension workers) to
farm families would be increased from 1:1,300 to 1:800. Field level extension
staff would be increased from 495 to 895 in Peninsular Malaysia, from 113
to 213 in Sabah, and from 171 to 248 in Sarawak. A total of 38 additional SMSs
would provide technical backstopping for the ATs. Housing and office facilities
would be constructed, including 32 ESCs in Peninsular Malaysian states; 10 ESCs,
20 AFBs (satellites of the ESCs) in Sarawak; and 9 FA facilities in Sabah. The
SDOA minor development schemes (Annex 2, page 5) also form nuclei for extension
in Sabah. Total staff requirements are detailed in Section G of the separately
bound staff supplementary tables to Annex 6.
3.06      The ESCs and AFB satellites would be located in remote areas where
agricultural services are inadequate and would serve as forward bases for
extension workers. The project would contribute vehicles, boats and motors
to make extension workers mobile and increase their coverage even to those
areas inaccessible by road. Appropriate extension methodology would be
applied and regularized (Annex 1). The additional ATs provided under the
project would be utilized to a large extent to release extension workers from
subsidy and regulatory functions and provide a substantial number of ATs who
would have primarily educational functions. In Sabah, the five existing and
nine new FAs would serve as a base for extension but would also provide input
and marketing services. Details are in Annex 2. Extension is an activity that
depends upon adequate numbers of trained and informed staff and satisfactory
assurances were obtained during negotiations on the creation and financing of
new positions and recruitment of staff to fill them.
Extension Training Details
3.07      Training under the proposed project (costing a total of US$18.4 mil-
lion) would strengthen the technical and operational capability of the extension
services by the means set out below. In addition, the increasing emphasis to
be given to training activities within DOA will be supported by the training
of staff of the ELU under Loan 1115-MA which will liaise with the DOA Extension
Branch.
(a) A new Al would be established in Sarawak. Facilities at the AVS in
Sabah would be improved and output of existing institutes in the
Peninsula would be increased to enable total DOA operative level
staff to be increased by 660 during the project. The quality of
training at the institutes would be improved by the training of
teaching staff and by closer integration of the institutes into
field extension programs.
(b) In-service upgrading and specialized training of field staff would
be achieved by the establishment of five new RETDCs (four in the
Peninsula and one in Sarawak), and the establishment of an ATC
in Sabah to perform the function of an RETDC. The total RETDC annual
capacity would be increased to the equivalent of about 2,500 courses
of three weeks per trainee, including short seminars and workshops.
Approximately 2,000 DOA agricultural technicians and 250 subprofessional
staff would receive training at the RETDCs in the form of annual train-
ing sessions and specialized courses. Selected suboperative staff



- 12 -
would also receive upRrading training. Courses would have a practical
orientation. would last from several days to three weeks, and would be
aimed at keeDinR staff informed and uD to date. Courses would be
offered in extension methodoloRv. extension techniques and technical
subjects. In addition, any remaining capacity at the RETDCs would be
filled by traininR proRrams for other aRricultural agencies. During
neRotiations assurances were Riven that the DOA would conduct an anal-
Ysis of aRricultural in-service traininR reauirements. The findings
of this analysis would be submitted to the Bank by June 30. 1979. or
such later date as may be aareed.
(c) Over 400 supervisory staff of the extension services would receive
training in management skills and in extension and communications
methods. Selected senior staff would be given an opDortunitv
to visit Dlaces outside Malavsia where effective extension svstems
have been develoDed.
(d) SMSs would be increased bv 38 and would be given major resDonsibility
for in-field, in-service traininR of extension staff. as well as actinR
as a constant channel of communication between extension and research
workers. TraininR of SMSs in their sDecialist fields would be provided
for under the Droiect.
(e) A farm mechanization traininR and extension unit would be established
in Sabah in conjunction with the AI/RETDC where an urRent need for
ODerator traininR exists. In Sarawak. to strengthen mass media
suDoort for the extension service, a unit for the production of
aRricultural extension communications materials would be established
and staff would be trained.
3.08      AlthouRh in-service training will uvRrade the knowledRe of the
field staff and keeD them informed, there is also a need to Drovide for 166
man-vears of sDecialized fellowships (at a total cost of US$2.8 million) to
uDarade manaRement and technical abilitv throuRh: (a) underRraduate scholar-
shiDs (72 man-vears): (b) Dost2raduate studies (48 man-vears): and (c) overseas
short courses and study tours (46 man-vears). Fellowships and scholarshiDs
would be allocated to all three components of the project: extension (101
man-vears), training (34 man-vears). and seeds (31 man-years). Assurances
were obtained durinR neRotiations that annual fellowship programs would be
submitted in advance to the Bank for review and comment.
Extension MethodoloRv
3.09      The widely varyinR nature of aRriculture throughout the country
requires a flexible and practical extension aDDroach adiusted to the level of
develoDment of local aRriculture and suDDortinR services (credit, marketinR.
inDut suDply. etc.). The main emphasis of the DroDosed Droject would be on
Dre-service and in-service training of extension workers so that they will be
adeauatelv informed. Armed with information, the extension workers would
concentrate on counselinR individuals and RrouDs of farmers on aDDroDriate
inDuts and farming techniaues. Extension officers are Dresentlv involved in
reRulatorv activities and inDut suDDlies as much as in educational activities.
One of the maior Roals of the project would be to systematically separate
extension from reRulatory and inDut functions as raDidly as Dracticable.



- 13 -
3.10      The basis of the proposed project extension methodology would be
systematic planning and application of extension activities at the farm level
(training, visits and demonstrations), beginning with the day-to-day work of
the field level extension worker up through the area, district, circle, and
state levels of organization. The AT would plan his program on a two to four
week schedule, depending on local requirements, and would plan regular training,
demonstration (based on a package input approach) and discussion visits to
provide timely agricultural information relevant to the most important crops
and activities in his area at specific times of the year. He would conduct
regularly scheduled visits, discussions and demonstrations with farm leaders
and other farmers and maintain records of visits, information transmitted,
acceptance by farmers and their achievements. These reports would form part
of a cumulative record of activities and achievements from the area, district,
circle and finally the state level which would then form the basis for long-
term systematic monitoring, evaluation and planning. Farm models and indicative
inputs and yields for padi and coconut under the project are given in Annex 7.
3.11      In order to be efficient and effective, extension must be planned,
programmed and evaluated. This would be done at three levels:
(a) State Level - the State Director of Agriculture and State Chief
Extension Officer would establish agricultural production priorities,
identify the important crops and elements within those that would be
improved, and formulate the program for extension.
to) Circle Level - the agricultural officers in charge of circles will
have been involved in state level planning and would transmit
priorities and targets to the agricultural assistants in charge of
districts making up a circle. Previous experience in the districts
and farmer acceptance or rejection of innovation would be reviewed,
and as a result of these meetings and discussions an annual program
for the circle would be prepared.
(c) District and Area Level - detailed annual promotion and development
programs for each area in the district would be worked out by the
AAs and ATs for each area in terms of time and resources required.
Each AT would establish a regular and detailed information and visit
program so that individuals and groups of farmers would know his
movements and activities. At least half of his time would be
devoted to promotion and development, including demonstrations, and
the remainder would be utilized for consulting work and handling
seasonal crop crises. The AT would also schedule time for regular
reporting, meetings with his supervisor, and for training (see
Annexes 1, 2 and 3).
3.12      The study of the use of television for extension purposes (para. 2.25)
would open up a potentially very valuable communications medium for improving
agriculture in Malaysia. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the DOA, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Radio T.V.
Malaysia, would conduct the study under TOR reviewed by the Bank and would
submit the study findings to the Bank for review by December 31, 1978, or
such later date as may be agreed.



- 14 -
The Seeds Component
3.13      This component of the project (total cost US$4.2 million) would
provide for facilities and capability for producing quality seeds of padi and
minor crops (Annex 4, para. 40 onwards). In Peninsular Malaysia five CPCs
(now producing 800 tons of seeds annually) would be expanded and strengthened
to produce, process and distribute approximately 2,500 tons of seed annually
by full development. Seed quality control would be developed through a
central seed testing and quality control laboratory to be established at
Serdang (in Peninsular Malaysia). In Sabah, two seed production, processing
and distribution centers would be developed, with the capacity to produce
annually 200 tons of padi seed and 150 tons of minor crop seeds (mainly
groundnuts, maize, sorghum and soybeans). In Sarawak, one seed production
center would be established with the capacity to process annually about
250 tons of padi seed. Production of up to 50 tons of minor crop seeds would
also be developed. The production centers would become the major suppliers
of domestic seed requirements.
3.14      Initial quality seeds production would be accomplished through
improvement of existing government seed farms (CPCs). Quality seed production
would progressively be extended to farmer outgrowers with 50% or more of the
seed being grown by farmers by full development (Annex 4, para. 80). A seeds
fund would be established and maintained by the DOA to provide adequate opera-
ting capital to purchase seed at a premium price from farmer growers and
cover operating deficits. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
3.15      MARDI would supply foundation seed to the seed production centers.
The respective research institutes of Sabah and Sarawak would also produce some
foundation seed for local requirements. Seeds would be multiplied by the CPCs
and farmer outgrowers. Seeds would be sold at cost to the more progressive
farmers with adequate resources. However, initial emphasis would be on distri-
bution through subsidy programs, administered by the SDOA, to introduce and
demonstrate the benefits of improved seeds to small farmers and farmers with
inadequate resources and incentive to purchase seeds. With a view to
establishing seed production on a self-financing basis, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the GOM's pricing policy for seeds would be
reviewed and that the Bank would be advised of the GOM seed pricing proposals
by January 31, 1980 (Annex 4, paras. 92 and 93). Seeds pricing policy is
closely linked to GOM's subsidy program and policy to be reviewed under the
project in the same period (para. 3.25). Also, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that during the project implementation period, the Bank
would be given reasonable prior notice of the Government's intention to
enact any federal or state legislation concerning seed production. The
Malaysian seeds industry is in the initial stages of development, with the
GOM as the only producer of improved seeds at present; therefore, it is
considered that legislation at this time would be premature and would serve
little useful purpose (see Annex 4, para. 39).
Technical Assistance
3.16      The Federal and State Governments have requested technical assistance
(foreign exchange cost US$0.74 million) for the extension, training and seeds



- 15 -
components of the project to assist with specialized activities in relation
to planning, organization, design and implementation as described below.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this technical assistance
would be acquired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.17      Extension (3.0 man-years).  There is a requirement for assistance
in extension organization and planning in the early stages of the project to
deal with such matters as: (a) formulating programs of extension work;
(b) determining in-service training course content and drawing up training
programs; (c) planning the establishment and operation of training facilities;
and (d) organization and management of extension activities at the State and
District level (Annex 1, pages 12 and 13).
3.18      Seeds (2.0 man-years).  The DOA has limited experience in the tech-
nical aspects of the seeds industry and therefore assistance would be
provided for the planning and design of seeds processing facilities (Annex 4,
para. 70).
3.19      Soil Conservation (1.0 man-years).  The problems of soil conservation
have largely been ignored as an extension activity in the past. The project
would provide technical assistance to train staff, develop soil conservation
programs and implement a pilot soil conservation scheme (Annex 1, para. 51).
3.20      Credit (0.5 man-years).  There are no effective institutionalized
credit organizations in Sarawak and most agricultural credit is obtained from
local merchants to whom farmers sell their produce and from whom they buy
their supplies. The subsidy schemes do not and should not take the place of
necessary available credit arrangements. Improved credit systems are required
for an advance in agricultural development. A consultant, for six months,
would be provided to assess credit problems and make recommendations for
remedying the situation (Annex 3, para. 24).
3.21      Farm Mechanization Extension (2 man-years).  In Sabah there is a
great need for assistance to FAs, the Padi Board and other agencies to keep
agricultural machinery operable. Local skills in farm machinery operation and
maintenance are, at best, minimal or totally lacking. Relatively new tractors
in FAs lie idle because of improper maintenance or lack of simple repair. A
consultant (an extension and training specialist in farm machinery) would
advise the Sabah DOA, the Padi Board and farmers on more efficient machine
utilization. He would also assist with the training of ATs in basic mechaniza-
tion skills at the Al and RETDC.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.22      The success of the DOAs' extension activities under the proposed
project will ultimately be measured by the increased productivity of small-
holders in Malaysia. However, there is inadequate information regarding
present agricultural practices, achievements of subsidy programs, farmers'
attitudes, and the constraints that keep smallholders from increasing their
productivity. Therefore, there is a need at this time to establish a moni-
toring and evaluation capability within the DOA for the implementation of the
project in the short term and assessing the benefits of extension and subsidies
ii the long term.



- 16 -
3.23      Monitoring would require a systematic framework of data collec-
tion, analysis, and periodic reporting. Consultants employed under the
UNDP/IBRD State and Rural Development Project would assist the federal and
state DOAs in the development of an appropriate system. Terms of reference
to this effect which have been agreed with the Bank are included in the
State and Rural Development Project. A computer specialist and statistician-
economist with experience in conducting agro-economic surveys would also be
available as part of the computer activity technical assistance for the DOA
and MARDI, financed under Loan 1115-MA. The monitoring and evaluation studies
would examine: (a) present agricultural practices of farmers (including
the use of improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides); (b) credit mechanisms
available to the farmers and their use; (c) marketing channels available to
farmers, particularly for the new crops that are encouraged under crop-
diversification schemes; and (d) seed pricing policies.
3.24      A comprehensive review of subsidy schemes by the DOA would result in
operational and policy guidelines regulating the subsidy programs, and modi-
fying them if necessary to bring them into line with their objectives. Almost
any crop now qualifies for a subsidy. Their respective justifications and
impact of subsidies will be found to be different, and policy recommendations
emerging from this review are likely to differ from crop to crop and from area
to area.
..25      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by January 31, 1980
the initial findings and recommendations of these studies would be submitted
to the Bank for review and comment.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEM ENT
Federal and State Government Extension Relationships
4.01      Extension is a state function carried out under the State Director
of Agriculture (a federal officer). Federal Extension, a branch under the
Director General for Agriculture, provides a subject matter advisory service,
and financial and. material assistance to the states (see Charts WB17603
and WB17602). The Director of the Extension Branch, DOA, would be the National
Project Director responsible for project administration and implementation.
The State Directors of Agriculture in Sabah and Sarawak would be Assistant
Project Directors for their states. The National Project Director would be
responsible to the Director General of Agriculture. All SDOAs would be
involved in project planning and implementation and the State Directors of
Agriculture would assist the National Project Director and share responsibility
for execution and operation within their respective states. Appointment of
qualified staff to the positions of Project Director, and three Project
Leaders for RETDCs, Seeds and Soil Conservation would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan. Each state would have a Chief Extension
Officer responsible for day-to-day operational and administrative matters
associated with the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all states would designate their Chief Extension Officer as responsible
for day-to-day project operations by June 30, 1978, or such later date as
may be agreed. The main overall functions of the National Project Director
would be to:



- 17 -
(a) plan and coordinate the construction of physical facilities created
by the project;
(b) control and disburse project funds in accordance with GOM's estab-
lished procedures;
(c) procure the goods and services as required by the project;
(d) ensure that the staffing requirements of the RETDCs, the Sarawak
AI, and other training institutions are met;
(e) arrange for the phased recruitment of additional field extension
staff as envisaged by the project;
(f) ensure that the organization and work programs as proposed under the
project are implemented;
(g) administer and manage the fellowships program and arrange for recruit-
ment of foreign technical assistance;
(h) provide the main focus of liaison between the project and other DOA
branches, the ELU, MARDI, the FOA and other development agencies and
other agencies involved in credit,
input distribution and marketing; and
(i) maintain records of the progress of project planning and imple-
mentation.
4.02      Seeds.  The Director of the Crop Production Branch would be respon-
sible to the Director General of Agriculture through the National Project
Director for implementation of the seeds component of the project. The
Director General would establish a separate unit to be responsible for seed
quality. The National Seeds Assessment Committee would approve new varieties
for release, and MARDI would produce, maintain and supply breeder and founda-
tion seeds of approved varieties.
4.03      An Assistant Director for Seed Production, responsible to the
Director of the Crop Production Branch, as head of the Office of Seed Produc-
tion would be appointed. The Office of Seed Production would be divided into
three units each with a Senior Agricultural Officer in charge; these three
units would be as follows: (a) Seed Production; (b) Seed Processing, Storage
and Marketing; and (c) Seed Certification and Testing. The heads of the
first two units would be responsible to the Assistant Director, Office of
Seed Production, whereas the head of the third unit would be directly
responsible to the Director of the Crop Production Branch.
4.04      Training.  The RETDCs to be established under the project would be
the responsibility of the Director of the Extension Branch of the DOA.
Training of agricultural staff is a federal responsibility. An Assistant
Project Leader, Training, would be appointed to assist the Director of Extension
to administer the AIs and the RETDCs (para. 4.01). A working level committee
of all user agencies would be formed to provide policy guidelines to the
RETDCs and to coordinate the RETDC programs with the training courses offered
by the user agencies.



- 18 -
4.05      Soil Conservation.  Soil conservation would be a functional unit
of the Soils and Analytical Services Branch, and a Project Leader would be
appointed (para. 4.01).
Administrative and Functional Linkages
4.06      The proposed project has been designed to be implemented within
the existing organizational framework of the federal and state DOAs and line
functions of the DOA would not be affected by the project. The administration
of the proposed project would be carried out by the National Project Director,
who is also the Director of the Extension Branch in the DOA. The training
and seeds components of the project would be implemented by the Directors of
the Extension Branch and Crop Production Branch respectively, and each com-
ponent would be headed by a Project Leader (para. 4.01). These Project
Leaders would remain functionally responsible to their own Branch Directors,
but for project administration they would be responsible to the Project
Director (refer to organization charts WB17277 and WB17604).
4.07      This distinction is necessary because during implementation of the
project, the tasks of these units involve management of funds, supervision
of building construction, purchase of equipment, mobilizing and recruiting
personnel, and other administrative activities, which are quite different from
the technical task of operating the functional units.
Organization at the End of the Project Implementation Period
4.08      At the end of the disbursement period, the Federal Extension and
Advisory Services would consolidate the various units along more functional
lines since there would no longer be a need for separate staff or units to handle
the ELU and the state extension loans. The newly acquired expertise of the
staff and the extended infrastructural facilities would be deployed within the
framework of the present federal and state agricultural extension, crop produc-
tion, and training organizations at the end of the project implementation
period.
Implementation Schedule
4.09      The proposed project would be implemented over a period of five
years (Annex 6, Part I, Implementation Summary). The capacity to implement
this project varies among the 12 states, but with adequate coordination and
cooperation the federal DOA is confident that administrative constraints would
be manageable. The monitoring and evaluation system (para. 3.22) would assist
project implementation and would be extended to all states during the course
of the project.
4.10      The seeds component of the project would be implemented slowly
in the first two years to allow the seeds consultant time to finalize design,
production and processing requirements, with the objective of reaching full
development by 1982 or as soon thereafter as practicable. Implementation
details for the extension, training and seeds components for Peninsular
Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak are contained in Annex 6.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audit
4.11      The DOA and the SDOAs are all subject to normal government financia.
control and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that adequate accounts would be kept for all project expenditures through all
concerned agencies and specifically that:
(a) separate accounts would be kept and financial statements would be
prepared in respect of the project by the DOA;
(b) such accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would
be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(c) the following would be furnished to the Bank within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year:
(i)   certified copies of these audited financial
statements for each year; and
(ii)   the audit reports;
(d) any other information concerning these accounts which the Bank
reasonably requests would be provided; and
(e) that all CPCs, and FAs in Sabah, financed under the project, would
adopt cost accounting procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Costs
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$46.3 million, of which
US$19.0 million would be foreign exchange. All prices and salaries are
expressed at current levels. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil works
and 10% for vehicles and equipment are included, and amount to 5% of project
costs. Costs due to expected price increases amount to 24% of project costs,
and are calculated assuming the following inflation rates:
1976      1977-80        1981 and on
 _ __ __ __ __ __ (0) _____________
Domestic (Malaysia)          7          7                  7
Foreign exchange
Civil works               8           7.5               7
Vehicles/equipment       10           9                 8



- 20 -
5.02      Unit costs for civil works in Sabah and Sarawak are estimated to be
about 25% to 30% higher than in Peninsular Malaysia for similar items, reflecting
higher local contractor and transport costs.
5.03      Project costs for the seed subproject include an estimation of work-
ing capital (seeds fund) required to (a) purchase seeds from farmer outgrowers
and (b) cover operational deficits during the development phase of the seeds
industry. Working capital is calculated on the basis of the above costs less
revenues generated from seed sales. In Peninsular Malaysia existing and new
staff are federal employees, and their salaries are paid by the Federal
Government. In Sabah and Sarawak staff are state employees, and the cost of
staff salaries is borne by the state. Therefore staff salaries are included
as an operational expense in the working capital estimation for Sabah and
Sarawak, but they are not included in the same estimation for Peninsular
Malaysia. All staff salaries (federal and state) are included as an operational
expense in cash flow and financial analyses for the seed subproject. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that GOM will create the posts and appoint
staff incrementally to conduct, support and maintain project activities.
5.04      Details of project costs, including the incremental build-up of
staff and operating costs in DOA and the SDOAs, are presented in Annex 6 and
are summarized below.



- 21 -
Project Cost Summary
M$ million               US$ million              %
Foreign                   Foreign           Foreign
Local  exchange  Total  Local  exchange  Total  exchange
Extension
Civil works            9.16    7.06    16.22   3.63    2.80        6.43      44
Vehicles                -      3.34      3.34    -        1.32      1.32    100
Equipment             0.25    1.03       1.28   0.10    0.41       0.51      80
Operating costs /a   5.02       -        5.02   2.00       -       2.00
Staff
regular           12.71      -       12.71   5.04      -        5.04
subject matter
specialists      1.53      -        1.53   0.61      -        0.61
Total Extension    28.67   14.72    40.10  11.38    4.53    15.91           29
Seeds
Civil works           2.31    0.93       3.24   0.92    0.37       1.29      29
Vehicles               -       0.70      0.70    -       0.28      0.28    100
Equipment             0.55    2.19       2.74   0.22    0.87       1.09      80
Staff                 0.19      -        0.19   0.08       -       0.08
Working capital       0.56      -        0.56   0.22       -       0.22
Total Seeds          3.61    3.82       7.43   1.44    1.52       2.96      52
Training
Civil works          10.14    6.02    16.16   4.02    2.39         6.41      37
Vehicles               -       1.54      1.54    -       0.61      0.61    100
Equipment             0.57    2.27       2.84   0.23    0.90       1.13      80
Staff                 3.22      -        3.22   1.28      -        1.28
Operating costs       4.52      -        4.52   1.79       -       1.79
Total Training      18.45    9.83    28.28   7.32    3.90    11.22          35
Technical assistance   0.25    1.44        1.69   0.10    0.57        0.67     85
Fellowships               -      5.81      5.81    -        2.31      2.31    100
Total Base Costs   50.98   32.33    83.31  20.24   12.83    33.07           39
Contingencies
Physical               2.82    3.45      6.27   1.12    1.37       2.49
Price                15.50   12.10    27.60   6.14    4.80    10.94
Total             18.32   15.55    33.87   7.26    6.17    13.43          46
Tota] Project Costs   69.30   47.88   117.18  27.50   19.00    46.50           41
ila  InclOudes ExtensJon Operating Costs (see Annex 6).



- 22 -
Financing
5.05      A Bank loan of US$19.0 million is proposed to assist with the financing
of the project as follows:
GOM                Bank
% of item's        % of item's
US$  total cost   US$  total cost  Total
Civil works                            8.6       60        5.6      40        14.2
Vehicles & equipment                   0.5       10        4.4      90         4.9
Technical assistance                   0.1                 0.6      85         0.7
Fellowships                                                2.3     100         2.3
Additional staff                        7.0     100                            7.0
Operating costs & working capital    4.0        100                            4.0
Contingencies                          7.3       54        6.1      46        13.4
Total costs                 27.5      59       19.0       41       46.5
Procurement
5.06      The Project Director, who is also the Director of Extension under
the Director General of the DOA, would have overall responsibility for the
procurement of goods and services under the project. The Project Director
would utilize and expand staff and facilities already established for the
ELU under Loan 1115-MA to carry out procurement and disbursement administration.
For the 10 states on the Peninsula, the National Project Director would be
directly in charge of procurement and approval of requests of the individual
SDOAs under the project.
5.07      Procurement of goods and works in Sabah and Sarawak would be carried
out by the individual states in accordance with procedures that are acceptable
to the Bank. Under the project the Project Directors (SDOAs) Sabah and
Sarawak would submit an annual budget, implementation program and procurement
schedule to the National Project Director and through him to the Bank.
5.08      Contracts for construction of civil works would generally be small
(averaging less than US$100,000), dispersed in time and place, and could not
be grouped for similtaneous tendering. All contracts estimated to cost less
than US$400,000 would be awarded following local procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank; all contracts estimated to cost US$400,000 or more would
be carried out under international competitive bidding in accordance witli
Bank guidelines.  Vehicles and equipment would be procured under international
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers.
Small off-the-shelf items, such as extension and office equipment, would be
procured through normal government procedures.



- 23 -
5.09      The Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations to
bid are issued and contracts are awarded for vehicles, equipment, and materials
purchases where contracts are estimated to be in excess of US$50,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
5.10      Disbursements would be made for 100% of expenditures for consultants'
services and for fellowships; and 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment, materials and vehicles; 100% of ex-factory cost of items
manufactured locally; 85% of total cost of locally procured imported items; and
40% of total expenditures for civil works, including site development. Dis-
bursements by the Bank are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983. The
estimated quarterly disbursement schedule for the project is given in Annex 6,
Part II, Section G, Table 1.2.
6. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
Introduction
6.01      The proposed project would provide the infrastructure and extension
services necessary to increase the productivity and income of smallholder
farmers engaged in the production of padi, coconut, and other crops, throughout
Malaysia. An estimated one million rural families will be reached by the
increase in extension and seed production services, with particular emphasis
on increasing extension services in rural poverty areas. The cost of the
project's extension component would be US$26.0 per rural family. The project
is closely in line with the following objectives of the Malaysian Government:
(a) to improve the productivity and incomes of the
poorest segments of Malaysian society in general;
(b) to reduce urban-rural and ethnic (Bumiputra/non-Bumiputra) /1
income disparities; and
(c) to reduce the national dependence on imported foodgrains.
6.02      It is not practical to separate and quantify the influences of all
the subproject components on the total project benefits, except for financial
analysis of the seed production component. The benefits from the use of the
improved seeds to be produced under the project would not be fully effective
L1 Bumiputra refers to the indigenous peoples of Malaysia, including the
Malays and the indigenous Borneo people.



- 24 -
without appropriate extension services. For these reasons the project eco-
nomic benefits are treated as the result of a combined package of an increase
in extension, training and seed production services. Padi has been used as
the base crop for the economic analysis, but substantial benefits would also
be realized from coconut and minor crops. The impact of the extension project
would be far greater in irrigation command areas, including those areas to be
served by the Small-Scale Irrigation Project.
Financial Analysis (Annex 7, Section A)
6.03      However, the potential financial benefits of the project in terms of
increased production and farm incomes would be expected to adequately justify
the project financial cost (see para. 6.05). It is expected that the govern-
ment CPCs would become financially self-sustaining institutions at full devel-
opment (Year 5). For the seed subproject, the estimated financial rate of
return is 14%. For the Peninsula's CPCs the calculated rate of return is
26%, which shows the centers can become financially self-sustaining and
eliminate the need for present GOM subsidies. The following assumptions have
been made for this analysis:  (a) of total seed produced, distribution would
be for commercial sales to farmers and sales to GOM for subsidy schemes;
(b) fifteen percent of seed produced would account for reject and damage,
and will be sold on a private consumption basis. The distribution of final
production would be as follows:
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982 and on
 _______ ________  %  _
Commercial sales          35      45     55      65        75
Reject and damage         15      15      15     15        15
GOM subsidy               50      40      30     20        10
Total                  100    100    100    100         100
6.04      At present, there is no set pricing policy for the sale of seeds
(see Annex 4, para. 75). The financial analysis of the CPCs is intended to
develop a format by which the CPCs can become financially independent of
present GOM subsidies for seed production. Prices used are current seed market
.prices. In accordance with proposed GOM policy (Annex 4, para. 94), a 30%
premium has been added on to prices. The price premium is charged only for
seed sold on a commercial basis, from 1982 onwards. It is estimated that by
full development the CPCs will produce between 35 and 40% of total Malaysian
seed requirements (Annex 4, paras. 58, 61 and 62).
Economic Analysis (Annex 7, Section B)
6.05      In recent years Malaysia has imported between 150,000 and 200,000 tons
of rice per annum. The project will reduce this dependence on imported rice,
thus generating substantial foreign exchange savings. The improvement in the
efficiency of utilization of existing resources, which would be brought about



- 25 -
by the project, would generate a high rate of return. Padi production increases
necessary to generate a 25% economic rate of return have been calculated. It
has been assumed that the maximum production increase that the project will
have contributed will be reached in Year 10. Up to that year attributable pro-
duction increases are assumed to rise to peak at 20% of total in years 5 and 6
and then to decline to Year 10.
6.06      The analysis in Annex 7 (Section B, Table 1.1) shows that to realize
a 25% economic rate of return, annual incremental production value by Year 10,
at 1977 prices, would need to reach about M$44 M (US$17.5 M) above the base
period 1974-76. This represents an increase in production value of 8.4%, but
an increase of only 3.8% in production volume when the Bank's projected rise
in the real price of padi to 1988 is-discounted./l Experience elsewhere with
extension and training programs indicates that the project's impact is likely
to exceed the modest level required to achieve a 25% rate of return. Reversing
the conclusion of the analysis and stating it in more conventional form, it
would be reasonable to assume that with only a minor padi total production
increase (attributable to the project investment) of 3.8% by Year 10 the
project would realize an economic rate of return of 25%. This rate of return
would be achieved by the 3.8% increase in only padi production, and any
production increases in coconuts, maize, other crops and livestock would raise
the rate of return. There is little risk that these production increases
would not be attained, since the best farmers in Malaysia already obtain much
higher average yields and research yield levels are even higher. This rate of
return should be treated with caution, however, since as improved agricultural
practices spread, further investments in infrastructure and services would
become necessary.
Annual Incremental Extension Operating Costs
6.07      To cover annual incremental extension operating costs, only a small
increase in per acre padi production at current prices is required. In
Peninsular Malaysia, for example, the annual cost of the additional resources
required will be approximately US$3.6 million when the projected improvements are
fully implemented. This figure is derived from totaling the yearly staff and
operating costs, 10% of the building costs and 20% of the equipment costs.
When spread over the smallholder occupied area of 2 million acres it represents
an annual "charge" of US$1.80 per acre. Alternatively, it may be expressed as
US$5.20 per farm family when spread over the 750,000 smallholdings or US$3,970
per field extension worker, of which there will be around 900 when the new
staff are employed.
/1  Base period padi production in Malaysia averaged 2.0 million tons and
Bank projections translate to padi value increasing from M$260 (base
period average) to M$580/ton (in 1977 prices) over the ten-year benefit
build-up period.



- 26 -
6.08      The requirement to generate an additional US$1.80 net income per
acre from extension activities is a small target. It represents only 5 kg
of padi at current 1977 prices in Year 10 or similar small quantities of other
products. But it is not sufficient that extension should break even and it is
expected that returns would amply exceed costs.
Farm Incomes
6.09      The majority of Malaysian padi farmers have incomes below the national
absolute and relative poverty levels, chiefly because of the small (though
evenly distributed) sizes of padi farms./I Recent national surveys indicate
that 78% of all farm families primarily dependent on padi production have
incomes below the poverty line (US$162 per capita) in 1974, while the incomes
of operators of mixed farms are estimated to be much lower. Among such farmers
on double-cropped farms, 64% were estimated to live in poverty at the end of
1975,12 and eliminating the states of Kedah and Perlis (which include the
relatively prosperous Muda Project area), 78% of double-cropping specialist
farmers were below the poverty line. This figure still understates the propor-
tion of poor farmers in small irrigation areas. According to national surveys,
double-cropping farmers in states which are totally dependent on small-scale
irrigation were almost universally poor,/3 and the larger number of farmers
dependent on a single crop of padi received proportionally lower incomes.
6.10      MOA detailed socio-economic surveys of the Kerandang Timur /4 and
Kota II /5 scheme areas were carried out in October 1976. Average total
family income in Kerandang Timur is currently about US$390 (US$91 per capita).
Median farm family income is US$331 (US$77 per capita) and income is fairly
evenly distributed with no family surveyed receiving over US$1,150 (US$267 per
capita) from all sources. Ninety-five percent of Kerandang Timur families
/1 Ninety-three percent of all Malaysian padi farmers operate on less than
three ha of padi land.
/2 Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia, IBRD Report No. 838-MA, Annex E,
p. 16.
/3 Between 95% and 100% of double-cropping padi farmers in Johor, Pahang,
Malacca, Negri Sembilan, and Trenggami were living in poverty, according
to the surveys.
/4 Trengganu Scheme.
/5 Kedah Scheme.



- 27 -
earned total incomes below the national poverty line./l In Kota II, average
total farm family income is currently US$648 (US$122 per capita). Median
family income is US$504 (US$95 per capita) and income is again fairly evenly
distributed with the upper 10% of families receiving an average income of
US$1,902 (US$359 per capita).  Eighty-seven percent of Kota II families
earned total incomes below the national absolute poverty line./l
6.11      Over the period 1978 to 1987 the project would contribute to raising
net padi farm incomes of project farmers by US$80-100 per family (US$15-19 per
capita)./2 This increase in income is contingent upon the use of improved
seeds to be produced under the project, and on the use of associated inputs
such as fertilizer, and upon the increased and improved extension services
providing rural families with access to information about appropriate use of
the above inputs. Over the ten year period a few padi farmers would rise
above poverty income levels, but in general a 14 to 26% increase in income
over present levels would be achieved by the largest identifiable poverty
group in Malaysian society.
Risk
6.12      In calculating the economic returns for the proposed project invest-
ment, the various components were treated as an integrated package. Proper
implementation of the project will require a high degree of organizational
effectiveness and coordination between the federal and state DOAs, as well as
with other public institutions in Malaysia. In particular institutional
services such as credit and marketing will have to be progressively streng-
thened in order to obtain the full benefits of the project. Much of the
initial emphasis will be on raising the subsistence level of rural families.
The major risks involved would be delays in implementation (including untimely
availability of staff, funds and equipment); administrative ineffectiveness
and slow farmer acceptance.
6.13      The federal and state DOAs are well aware of the organizational,
management and administrative requirements of the project and are confident
that adequate coordination and cooperation can be achieved to overcome these
potential constraints. This confidence is justifiable.
/1 The current national per capita income is US$720 and the national per
capita absolute poverty line is estimated to be about US$210 in 1977.
Average family size is 4.3 members in Kerandang Timur and 5.3 members in
Kota II.
/2 The US$150 per family increase in income represents the national average.
For regional (Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) family and per
capita income increases, see the farm models in Annex 7, Section B.



- 28 -
Environmental Effects
6.14      It is unlikely that any components of the project would have a
significant adverse effect on the environment of the country. The use of
high yield seed varieties will require the application of chemical fertil-
izers and sprays for pest control, but the level of application in the
country will be relatively modest.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations it was agreed that a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan would be that the Borrower shall have authorized the
following posts and appointed qualified staff to such posts:
(i) Project Director, Peninsular Malaysia;
(ii) Project Leader for Rural Extension, Training and Development
Center;
(iii) Project Leader for Seeds; and
(iv) Project Leader for Soil Conservation.
7.02      Satisfactory assurances having been received on all major points,
the proposed project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$19.0 million with a
17-year maturity and a grace period of 3-1/2 years. The borrower would be the
Federation of Malaysia.



MALAYSIA
N TIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PENINSULA MALAYSIA - EXTENSION SERVICE
ORGANIZATION DURING PROJECT
DiRFiCTOR l.NCRAL             j
DEPUTY DIHECIOFtI  FNFRAL
Director     l                       l           Direclor                 Dlil-ctstr              Dlrector                 Dlrecl(lr                                                  | DIRFCTOR FXTFFNSION 0S.ab                        ieh
Farm DDi,,tor                                    Cro                  DevelopornriCrop                                                                                                INoional P-necl Dlreclor)                   Srrih
Mechanisation             Eddcatin       -         Prot-ction               & Training              Prodmctioo               A-alyticol
I                                     D-r Pt-eEL DirecrtA   rjc  D   AssicPro, c Diretonl
-- -  -; -  -                     - - --            
Subject Matter                                                                                 A,m. P-r-  Oltirector             Acst. Prrijec Dirmtor             A5ss  P,ol, ct D-cst.,
Specilists                                                  .                                       Se-eds                                      o rT
LI2                                           State0,lrectorrrr   _    _    _    _   _   _   >   _   _  _   _   _  _ > _ _ _ _ dB_70
World Bank--i 7(304






MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
FEDERAL DEPARTMEr- OF AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR - GENERAL
OF AGRICULTURE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR- GENERAL
OF AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR                                      --------------_ - - -DIRECTOR
EXTENSION & ADVISORY                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING
1. Project Identification &
1. Development of Farm                                                                                                                                                                                                            Plann.ng
Famlhes                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Project Implementatson &
2  Farm Managementr                                                                                    _                     _        _._                   __._             .                                                    Co-ord,natioo
Exterisior,                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Project Bodgeting &
3. Informatton &                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ev l__  _  Evajuotion
Publhcatron                      DIRECTOR                             DIRECTOR                              DIRECTOR                             DIRECTOR                            DIRECTOR                              4. Staff Development &
4  Farmers & You-t                  CR-' PRODUCTION                       CROP PROTECTION                      SOILS & ANALYTICAL                   FARM  MECHANISATION                  EDUCATION & TRAINING                     Trairing
Deoelopmen-                   [                                                                             SERVICES                                                       _                                               5. Coconut Smallnolders'
5. Federal Territory &                                                                                                                                                                                                            Development Scheme
Special Projects                  1. Survey                                                                                                                                                                                6. Agrictltural Inputs &
6.' Entension Li-iso- Unit           2. DLmonstratio-                      1. Insect Pest,                      1. Soil Suroey                      1. Farm Development &[                1. Agricultural                         Diversification Subsidy
7 ' Eotensin-/SPeed Project          3. Manageairt &                      2. Vertebrate Pests                   2. Land Use Evaluation                  Improvement                           Institutes                          Scheme (A.l.D.)
'-oduction                        3. Crop Diseases                     3. Sod Conservation &                2. Machinery Int-oduction            2. Carriculum Review                 7  Spec,al Projects
4. Seed Certif -  nn                 4. Weeds                                 Reclamartne                         & Develoore^t                      3. Evaluation & Testing
5. Seed Proc-ssing &                 5. Pesticides                        4. Analytical Services               3  Mechanisat.ee                      4. In-service Training
j  Distr '"utiovl            .   6. Quarantine                        5  Soil Fertility                        Trai,n -                          5L F.MaT.C. Bombong
B. Data Processing                   7. Documentation                     6  Cart---?phy                       4. Logistics &
7. Documentation                                                          7  Data ci Information                  Maintenarce
STATE DEPAR'MENT' 3F                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
AGRICULTURE1                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -'
Johore, Kedah, Kar,tane  Malacca. j
Negnr. Seiirftilaii. PtIsaii7. Perien:                                           
Pergt, PSrhs, S b e,n- , TP,rh e u ,;;                                                                                                                                              i                                               Staff & Direct Control Line
I                                            -  - - - ______. -    Indi.ect Control Line
J   OTIlER ACENCES                                                                                                                                                                                             ._.,.-    Majo. Service Line
OI iVATE SEC OR  I
.,             I
FARhC-HS           -n
Crr Sans- '7277






ANNEX I
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Peninsular Malaysia - Agricultural Extension Component
Introduction
1.        The Department of Agriculture (DOA) at the federal level consists
of seven technical branches (a) Crop Production Branch, (b) Crop Protection
Branch, (c) Soil and Analytical Service Branch, (d) Agriculture Education
and Training Branch, (e) Development and Training, (f) Farm Mechanization
Branch, and (g) Extension and Advisory Branch (see Chart WB16756).
2.        This project would be concerned with extension at the state level
(a state function) directed and assisted by the federal DOA. The state
extension services are responsible for all extension activities, including
providing extension support to the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA).
Background
3.        There are less than 500 field level extension workers (agricultural
technicians) in the 11 states of Peninsular Malaysia to service 750,000 rural
families and a cropped area of 1,500,000 acres - 2.0 million acres when multiple
cropping is included (see Tables 1 and 2). The intensity and quality of exten-
sion services vary widely between states and within each state. In general,
the poorer states and more remote agricultural areas have the most inadequate
service. The numbers of agricultural technicians (ATs) are inadequate, in-
service training facilities and programs are not available, transportation and
equipment are in short supply, and housing and offices are only available in
the larger towns and villages.
4.        Limited resources and difficult communications have resulted in
services being primarily available to the more accessible, and often more
progressive and prosperous farmers near the urban centers, roads and highways.
The Department of Agriculture has already strengthened and expanded extension
for about 20% of the rural families which it serves in several irrigation
command areas and land settlement schemes, such as MADA, KADA and FELDA, with
highly satisfactory results. Extension services are also being strengthened
in Kelantan under Loan 1294-MA, the extension component of which forms the
basis for the National Extension Project.
S.        Eighty percent of Malaysia's smallholder agriculture, other than
irrigated padi and tree crops, is scattered in relatively small pockets beside
the rivers and among the valleys. Many areas are only accessible by boat
requiring a journey of several hours. The State Department of Agriculture
extension service advises and assists these rural families to the ability of
its present limited resources. However, the Government of Malaysia recognizes
that these services are presently inadequate. Because of the remote and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
scattered nature of much of its agriculture and its rural families, as a
matter of economics, it is necessary that agricultural extension workers also
perform regulatory functions and administer subsidy programs as part of their
effort to serve the rural families.
6.        Specific indications of the poor quality of life among rural people
are as follows:
(a) 69% of the houses occupied by smallholders and farm workers
have been found to be substandard, while only 15% of urban
housing is in the same category;
(b) in spite of adequate per capita levels of calorie and protein
availability, pockets of malnutrition exist in some states
especially among the lower income groups;
(c) 63% of houses in rural areas have no piped water and 69% have
no electricity;
(d) underemployment and unemployment are prevalent with only a
1% increase in jobs in 1975.
7.        In an effort to improve this position a two-pronged approach was
adopted in the Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) to increase incomes and living
standards in the rural areas. Resettlement of farmers from densely populated
farming communities was combined with direct income raising activities on
existing farms. The main objective of new land settlement is to create employ-
ment while at the same time easing the population pressure in existing communi-
ties. So far the government agencies responsible for this development have
resettled 37,500 farm families comprising over 214,000 people.
8.        Simultaneous activities to improve incomes and living conditions
in established farming communities follow the concept of package programs and
area development. Selected growth areas have been provided with the full
complement of physical and institutional infrastructures such as drainage and
irrigation, transport network, storage and marketing facilities, input
supply, etc. so as to give a better opportunity for realizing their full
production potential.
9.        Technology Base for Extension.  The project would develop a close
working relationship with the Malaysian Agricultural Research Institute (MARDI)
as the base for new technology and backstopping support for the solution to
local and seasonal crop problems. The Extension Liaison Unit, established
under Loan 1115-MA as an integral part of the Federal Extension Branch of the
DOA, would be the main channel of communication between MARDI, DOA and the
SDOAs.
10.       MARDI's Project Development Unit is applying and evaluating a system
of "standard packagef' recommendations provided by community research teams;
similar "standard package" recommendations would be developed by the technical
branches and staff of the Department of Agriculture for demonstration and



ANNEX I
Page 3
application by the extension service. Under the "package" approach, recommenda-
tions would be made on appropriate varieties, seeds rates, fertilizer rates,
plant population, plant spacing, etc., that would be compatible with local
resources. The working relationship between MARDI and the extension services
is being worked out through such joint efforts as the State Agricultural
Research Development Committee (SARDEC), which brings research and extension
staff together to discuss and resolve local problems, including "standard
package" recommendations.
11.       The DOA and the mission recognize that the extension project, in the
short term (the next 5-10 years) would not be constrained by the regular and
continuing availability of new technology emanating from MARDI and the Research
Centers in Sabah and Sarawak.
12.       A tremendous gap still exists between known technology and that
being applied by the majority of farmers in Malaysia; therefore, this project
would aim at narrowing the production gap primarily through the dissemination
of known and proven technology. New technology would replace and supplement
known technology as it becomes available.
13.       Potential for Production Increases.  Further improved practices
flowing from research will continue to increase potential. The padi crop
serves as a good example of the general level of achievement. The current
average yield of padi is less than 1.25 tons per acre (less than 1.0 ton/acre
excluding controlled irrigation) for both the main and off-season crops on
irrigated land. Production in the better areas such as the MADA Irrigation
Command Area is significantly above this, but even here the average is still
low compared with the potential. Although detailed local calculations are
not available it is probable that the physiological production limit is in
excess of 10 tons dry matter per acre given the annual availability of solar
energy to crop plants. This maximum is unlikely ever to be achieved since
the optimum combination of growth factors can never be sustained on a commer-
cial basis. Nevertheless, it puts into perspective the present level of
performance and indicates that there is significant room for improvement by
following sound farming practices. Similar relationships between what is
presently being achieved and what is possible also apply to other crops.
There are three possible areas of improvement in the physical production from
crop plants, these being in genotype, growing environment and nutrition. In
all three areas there is abundant improved technology already available for
extension workers to communicate to farmers, as well as innovations resulting
from research.
14.       Improved Genotypes.  The introduction of better, higher-yielding
varieties has already made a significant contribution to increases in crop
yields in Malaysia. The extent to which this improvement can be continued
depends on the skill of the plant breeder and the rate at which improved
varieties and planting material can be multiplied and made available to
farmers. If all farmers were to adopt the improved varieties and selections
which are already available overall yields could rise by 25% solely as a
result of introducing these improved genotypes. Extension effort is therefore
likely to be well rewarded in this field.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
15.       Better Growing Environment.  The full genetic potential of a variety
cannot be realized unless the crop is grown in an environment in which it
thrives.  This means that physical soil conditions must be favorable to root
development, and planting must be done at the correct time and in suitable
conditions.
16.       Most farmers would claim that they seek to achieve optima on every
crop they grow but the realization is usually short of the ideal, often
seriously so. The reasons for this are many. There is often a lack of
knowledge about the optimum treatments which should be given, sometimes
insufficient money or credit to purchase the necessary inputs. Frequently
management is inadequate and, for example, weeds are not removed until well
past the time when competition has already lowered the crop yield. The
extension opportunity here is high, particularly when these improved farming
practices are applied to new, higher-yielding varieties and selections, since
the higher the level of yield the greater the proportionate increase. In
Peninsular Malaysia as a whole the potential yield increase is probably around
50% of current levels from improvement of the general environment in which
crops grow.
17.       Crop Nutrition.  The final opportunity for improving crop yields
lies in better nutrition. Only a small part of Peninsular Malaysia has a
mean annual rainfall of less than 70 inches and in places the precipitation
is more than double this. As a result soils are highly leached and most
cultivated areas are deficient in lime and phosphate with little carryover of
residual nitrogen from year to year. Fertilizer use has increased substan-
tially during the past ten years, largely as a result of extension activities.
Rates of fertilizer application are, however, still well below the optimum on
many farms and there is considerable scope for raising crop yields by higher
fertilizer inputs. Although no very precise data are available, local esti-
mates suggest that yield responses up to 25% over present levels are likely
to result from recommended fertilizer treatments.
18.       The sum total of the above potential improvements in crop yields
gives an ultimate extension "target" for doubling the present output of crops
in Peninsular Malaysia. New crop opportunities are being developed and farmers
face an increasing choice as to the balance of enterprises on their farms and
the technology which should be applied in order to maximize income. The
development of the farm management advisory function is a relatively new role
for the extension service, but it is an essential complement to the promotion
of new technology and will lead to the more effective use of resources in the
agricultural sector of the economy.
19.       As the network of extension agents is improved and their capability
is increased it will become possible for them to play their full part in a
two-way communication with farmers and in providing information services to
other organizations. In one direction, farmers can receive relevant and
topical guidance on technology, credit availability, agricultural policy,
cropping opportunities, economic relationships, etc. which is vital if they
are to increase the viability of their holdings. In the other direction, the
extension service will be able to supply intelligence to the DOA, identify



ANNEX 1
Page 5
problems for research, indicate potential areas for development, etc., thus
making it a vital component in the overall program to reduce poverty and to
raise living standards in the smallholder sector.
Present Organization and Management of the Extension Service
20.       General.  Extension work of the DOA (Chart WB17602) is carried out
at two levels. At the federal level, the extension and advisory services
provide skills and financial and material assistance to the state departments
of agriculture and to all other agencies dealing with small farmers including
RISDA, FELDA, FOAs, etc. At the state level the DOA carries out the actual
extension work with farmers. The nature, scope and emphasis of extension
work is thus the responsibility of the individual states, but the Federal
Extension Service provides graduate staff for supporting technical service
posts in the states and also assists with the financing of field extension
work.
21.       Federal Organization.  An outline of the present organization of
the Federal Department of Agriculture is shown in Chart WB17602. The Director
General is responsible, through his assistants, for the HQ divisions which
cover coconut development, training, extension and advisory services, statis-
tics and communications, crop production, crop protection, and soil and
analytical services. The State Directors of Agriculture (SDOAs) report to
the Director of Extension on all matters concerning extension which have a
national bias but they are also responsible to their state Government for
general extension work within the state territory. The Directors of the Crop
Production, Crop Protection and Soil and Analytical Divisions are responsible
for the staff in their disciplines who are located in the states for national
projects, such as surveys, data collection, field investigations, situation
reports, etc. These staff also serve as subject matter specialists to back
up the field extension workers. The SDOAs can call on their services to
assist with extension work, but the extent to which this is provided varies
widely between the eleven states depending on staff numbers and the priority
accorded to other work.
22.       The Extension Liaison Unit (ELU), Federal DOA.  The ELU was estab-
lished within the Extension Branch of the DOA as part of Loan 1115-MA as an
initial step toward strengthening communications between Research, the
Federal Extension Service, and the State Extension Services.
23.       The ELU is organized into four separate functional groups:
(a) communications, (b) data processing, (c) projects, and (d) subject
matter. Under the project communications would be the most important aspect
of ELU's work and would primarily be concerned with preparing extension
documentation, mass media communication materials, visual aid systems,
development of teaching materials, and training of extension management and
subject matter specialists. The data processing group would be primarily a
support function, collecting, processing, and evaluating agricultural data
and information. The projects group would collaborate closely with MARDI's
Project Development Unit in the evaluation of research findings. The subject
matter group would provide technical support for the other groups.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
24.       ELU became operational in May 1976 after the establishment of 31
posts and now consists of a Director and six subject matter and communication
specialists. The Unit is now housed in a temporary building, and a permanent
building has been designed and will be built adjacent to the DOA complex in
Kuala Lumpur.
25.       The major functions of ELU would be the collection, evaluation,
processing and dissemination of research and agricultural information from
all sources including MARDI. ELU staff will process this information into a
usable form for extension officers, subject matter specialists and farmers.
The combination of subject matter and communications specialists in ELU would
perform the essential function of making agriculture information usable by the
farmers. ELU staff would be specialists in writing and presentation techniques.
ELU would also conduct regular information courses for DOA subject matter spe-
cialists and senior state extension officers. Sabah and Sarawak would also
establish State Extension Liaison Units (SELUs) to carry out this function in
East Malaysia. Although the SELUs would not be part of the Federal Extension
Branch ELU, they would participate fully in its activities.
26.       ELU is set up as a separate administrative unit for the purposes of
Loan 1115-MA; however the DOA has given its assurance that ELU functions
would ultimately be absorbed by existing units of the Federal Extension
Branch, and ELU is already considered as an integral unit of the Extension
Branch.
27.       The "ELU would gradually evolve into the DOA's planning and evalua-
tion arm of the extension branch, thus taking on a function which is sorely
needed in the Malaysia context." All principles of administration clearly
indicate, on the basis of experience, that the planning and evaluation
function should be an integral part of the administrator's office and not
part of an operating unit on a level with other operating units.
State Organization
28.       The present organization of the State Extension Services in Peninsular
Malaysia is shown in Chart WB17603. There are three levels of staff under the
SDOA:
(a) Agricultural Officers (AOs). These are all graduates and
some have a higher degree obtained on an overseas fellowship.
Their first degree involves a four-year course at the University
of Malaysia.
(b) Agricultural Assistants (AAs). These have a diploma after
completing a three-year course at the Agricultural University
of Malaysia.
(c) Agricultural Technicians (ATs). These would have a certificate
from one of the six agricultural institutes in Malaysia.
29.       The SDOA has overall responsibility for extension work and in some
states he executes this through an agricultural officer who is designated as



L- 
Pag& ;
Chief Extension Officer. When no such post exists the SDOA himself directs
and coordinates extension work.
30.       Extension activities are organized on a circle, district and area
basis. A circle consists of from 3 to 6 districts and is supervised by an
agricultural officer. Each district contains 3 to 5 Mukims and is supervised
by an agricultural assistant who is appointed and paid by the state. Each
area comprises 3 to 6 Mukims and are staffed with an agricultural technician
who is also appointed and paid by the state. The number of farm families
covered by each AT within an area varies widely depending on the density of
population and the intensity of staffing. The average is calculated to be
one agricultural technician to 1,500 farmers and this is clearly a very
inadequate coverage. The project would increase this ratio to 1:800.
31.       The effectiveness of the agricultural technician is vital to the
overall success of the extension service. With the present organization
each agricultural technician has to undertake a number of functions in his
area as well as agricultural extension work. These include:
(a) informing the agricultural community about government
policy and schemes;
(b) dispensing government subsidies or grants to farmers;
(c) regulatory work such as implementing the Poisons Act,
investigating gun license applications, etc.;
(d) collecting agricultural statistics;
(e) liaison work such as participating in Farmers' Association
activities, etc.
32.       There are at present just under 500 agricultural technicians (ATs)
doing field extension work in Peninsular Malaysia. Many of these have been
recruited in the past few years and lack experience and general technical
knowledge. They tend to live near their office rather than out in the areas
where they work, largely because housing is easier to acquire near towns and
facilities for family living are better than in the rural districts. The
project would increase the number of ATs from 500 to about 900.
Operating Procedures
33.       The SDOA decides the extension strategy for the state in consultation
with his senior extension personnel. This policy is taken to the local level
by the circle officers who discuss with the agricultural assistants the type
of extension programs which should be undertaken in the districts. The AAs
then implement the programs through the ATs. Subsidy assistance is given in
kind and includes fertilizer, crop protection chemicals, and seed and planting
materials of new varieties. The state also supplies subsidized mechanical
services to farmers. The duration and scope of the input subsidies vary between
states: in some they are only given once to each farmer but in others the aid
may continue for several years particularly where perennial crops are involved.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
34.       The extension programs are frequently built around subsidy schemes.
Meetings of farmers are arranged to inform them of the benefits of new
technology and the subsidies are then held out as an inducement for them
to try the improved techniques. This has attractions for the extension
worker who can thus offer some incentive for farmers to follow his advice.
35.       The Extension Service is making use of the usual mass and group
communication (visit, training and demonstration) techniques and also is
working through leading farmers in the agricultural communities. They are
short of some demonstration aids such as film and slide projectors and
broadcasting equipment, although these facilities are available in a limited
form in all areas. Use is made of demonstration plots (often as part of
subsidy programs) and similar means to show farmers the benefits of improved
practices.
36.       In an effort to bridge the gap between the extension service and
the other agencies, particularly FOA, has encouraged the creation of farm
development centers as a base for all agencies providing extension and
similar services to farmers. These development centers would include space
for DOA staff as well as for RISDA and FELDA staff in the areas where these
agencies operate. There are instances where farm development centers are
working well and where there is close and frequent liaison between the var-
ious organizations. There are however also examples where conflicts between
these organizations have negated the apparent advantage of housing them
together.
37.       The following weaknesses of the extension services have been
identified.
(a) There are too few staff engaged in extension at the farm level. The
present coverage of one extension agricultural technician (AT) to
1,300 farm families means that regular contact can only be maintained
with a small proportion of farmers.
(b) The ATs receive insufficient training and technical updating to
enable them to offer adequate advice.
(c) In upgrading the scientific base of the extension service more
subject matter specialists (SMSs) are required to backstop extension
workers.
(d) There is a general lack of planning, coordination and evaluation of
extension work. The supervisory staff, Agricultural Officers (AOs)
and Agricultural Assistants (AAs) do not receive any training in
personnel management or project planning.
(e)  ATs perform a number of statutory and regulatory duties in addition
to extension work.
(f) The present chains of command within the extension service are unclear.
The SDOA has no direct control over the SMSs who consequently do not
always gi-ve the necessary priority to extension work.



ANNEX I
Page 9
(g)  Although SDOAs have ultimate responsibility for extension, several
states do not have a State Chief Extension Officer.
(h)  There is still some duplication of effort among agencies carrying
out extension work (but this is being corrected).
(i)  Research and extension still tend to operate in isolation but steps
to facilitate a closer working relationship are being developed
(paras. 2.19-2.21).
(j)  The practice of applying rigid criteria, based on levels of academic
qualification, for appointment to different grades is a constraint
to the efficient deployment of agricultural staff.
38.       The project would ameliorate many of the above weaknesses, notably
by providing more people and better training.
The Project
39.       The basic objective of the extension component of the project would
be to improve the financial position of smallholders by providin)g better tech-
nical and economic information through ihe medium o-f the Eztevsio)) serv:ie.
This would assist the farmers to improve preste;t f, ~Kng pacties and in some
cases alter the balance of farm enterprises, bcttb oi which would lead to higher
incomes.  The elements within the extension comV;>V  are as foJlows:
(a)  recruiting about 580 additional ATs anid about 38 (Vol. II:  Project
File, Part II) subjeci. matt-- s pccialist.- (nd strategically locating
these staff throughout Penins- MtJaysia;
(b)  providing better in-service training for staff both at local
level and by the establishment of four regional extension
training and development centers;
(c)  granting local and foreign fellowships to selected staff
members;
(d)  providing two man-years of foreign ter-o< cal assistance in
extension and soil conservation;
(e)  improving ihe facilities availahie toi exteDsioni staff by
developing about 40 exte-nsion subce-,Lers   i providiug additional
eq,iipment; and
(f)  introducing a more positive and direct style of management
for planning extension activities.
Purpose and Organization of the New Resources
40.       Increase in Staff Numbers.  An additional 580 ATs are needed to
improve the ratio of extension workers to farmers. The present estimated
ratio is approximately one field extension worker to 1,500 farmers and this
represents a very inadequate ground coverage. One extension agent covers
about 3,000 acres of crop land which is too wide an area for him to cover
effectively given the communication problems caused by the scattered nature



ANNEX 1
Page 10
of the agriculture and the attitude of farmers in Peninsular Malaysia.
At present there are 800 ATs in the 11 states, only 495 of whom are working
directly with farmers. The project would increase this group by about 580
and the ratio would, on the average, be one extension worker to about 800
farmers. The 580 ATs to be provided under the project represents over half the
total number requested by the 11 states of Peninsular Malaysia in the Third
Malaysia Plan. It should be emphasized that the extra 580 ATs represent a
substantial expansion of the field extension force during the project period.
Although a further increase might be possible, the present proposal represents
the maximum increase which the service can effectively absorb and utilize.
41.       The present distribution of ATs among the 11 states, the intended
deployment of new ATs, and the present and future ratio of ATs to farm
families are shown in Tables 1 and 2. The ratios are most favorable in some
of the east coast, southern and central states where poverty problems are
greatest. There are however poverty problems in all states which would be
met by concentrating staff and other resources at local discretion within the
individual state concerned./I Table I shows the acreage per extension worker
before and after the new staff are appointed and indicates the improved
ratios which result. A more detailed picture of the deployment of new ATs
within each state is given in the Supplementary Tables (Report No. 1555a-s-MA).
42.       Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs).  In addition to ATs the project
would also provide for about 38 SMSs to be based in the 11 states. The major
role of these specialists would be to support the extension staff. SMSs
would be available as consultants to the extension workers and be responsible
for local trials and investigations to test and develop new technology. The
new specialists to be appointed will be decided according to local need. All
states require a soil scientist to concentrate on extension work in soils and
most also require an agronomist wbo specialized in crop production and who
would concentrate on the range of crops most important in each state. In
some states a crop protection specialist and farm management specialist are
also required. All states should have three specialists, except Perlis which
will have two. Probably the final balance between the disciplines would be
11 soil scientists, 10 agronomists, 8 crop protection specialists and 3 farm
management specialists. This group of staff would perform an invaluable
function in upgrading the scientific base of the extension service and
ensuring that the guidance given to farmers by the ATs is both technically
accurate and in line with the latest research findings.
43.       Improving In-Service Trainir.g.  The lack of forwalized and regu)ar
in-service training has been identified as a major weakness limiting the
present effectiveness of the extension service.  New SMSs will have responsi-
bility for the technical updating of all extension staff within each state.
/1  Provision for additional staff in most of the state of Kelantan has
already been made in a previous project (North Kelantan Rural Deve,oVmeuA
Project - Report No. 1137-MA).



ANNEX 1
Page 11
They will do this by arranging local training sessions within their respec ive
spheres and also by the regular dissemination of new information both in
written form and at regular local staff meetings. Approximately 10% of the
ATs', AAs' and AOs' time, i.e. about one day every two weeks, would initially
be spent on local training.
44.       Training would also be supplied through the establishment of
Regional Extension Training and Development Centers (RETDCs). The project
would provide four RETDCs to serve the north (Telok Chengai - Kedah), central
(Titi Gantomg - Perak), southern (Air Hitam - Johore) and eastern (Telaga
Batin - Trengganu) regions (see Annex 5). The RETDCs would provide broader
background training of two types: (a) courses in basic agricultural science,
crop technology and practical skills, and (b) training in operational and
management skills.
45.       The technical and scientific courses would be basically crop and
commodity oriented. Emphasis would be placed on crops and subject areas
relative to their present and potential contribution to the national economy
and their place in the eradication of poverty and the redistribution of income.
46.       In addition, technical courses will be needed on soil management,
conservation and reclamation, seed production and marketing.
47.       Fellowships and Study Tours.  Although the training described in
Annlex 5 would upgrade the knowledge and operational ability of staff at all
levels in the extension service there is also a need to complement local
training with overseas training. The project would provide for a total of
141 fellowships allocated to the 11 states, totaling 61 man-years and costing
M$2.1 million in the five-year period. The breakdown is as follows:
Category             Number of fellowships        Man-years
Postgraduage                   10                     20
Undergraduate                   6                     24
Short courses                 125                     17
Study tours
Total                       141                     61
48.       Of the above, the postgraduate scholarships would be allocated to
AOs who would be employed as SMSs when they have linished their postgraduate
training.  The undergraduate scholarships would be allocated  _o AAs with
demonstrated ability for higher grade work who wou]d be em-,, (yed as AOs when
they have finished ihis training.  The short courses and stud\  tours wculd be
allocated to staff at all levels with a high proporiion going to A's.  jhe
subjects for the short courses and fellowships would cover the following:
Technology - visits of up to three months (but some of only
two weeks or so) to study new technical developments in crop-
which are important in lMalaysia.



ANNEX I
Page 12
Extension Techniques - short visits to study extension programs
nM operation which have proved successful and which may have
relevance to Peninsular Malaysia.
Farm Management - visits to study farm management extension
programs in farming situations similar to those in Malaysia.
Home Economics - visits similar to the above but which cover
the home economics area.
49.       On their return from the short courses or study tours the staff
would be expected to produce a report which will be widely circulated in the
extension service.
50.       The aLove program of overseas fellowships makes no provision for
further training to selected ATs to enable them to obtain a diploma and thus
achieve promotir' io the AA grade.  Mechanisms for doing this would be
explored by the DQ> and the University.
51.       Soil Conservation.  The problems of soil conservation have been
overloo-ed in the past, but as the pace of agricultural development has
increased, the effects of soil erosion have become more noticeable through
loss of soil fertility, crop yields, and siltation and flooding. The DOA
has recognized that a critical stage has been reached in many areas and would
implement a pilot soil conservation scheme as an integral part of extension.
The main constraint to soil conservation is the lack of staff and equipment.
The project proposes LI provide and train staff and implement a pilot scheme
in the states of Penang and Pahang. These staff would be assigned to the
states with line responsibility to the SDOAs and ultimate responsibility to
zh: Soils ond Analytical Branch of the federal DOA.  The project would also
-cvide fellowships, technical assistance and equipment to support the soil
~-onservation extension effort.
52.       Extension programs for soil conservation would be developed and
;imp -ented as expertise and information become available.  Extension workers
wo-ld make farmers aware of the consequences of soil erosion and advise them
on appropriate control measures. The extension effort would be largely based
the transfer of known technology and techniques.
53.       Foreign Technical Assistance.  The federal and state DOAs face a
dau-nting task in upgr-ading their extension work and in establishing the
training programs required for extension staff; thus, the project would
pro, de three man-years of foreign technical assistants (including soil
conservation) scheduled for 1978 and 1979.
54.       The foreign expert(s) would be responsible to the national project
director. General terms of reference would be to assist in:
(a) laying the groundwork to launch the four RETDCs;
(b) determining the course content and developing the curricuJum
of the RETDCs;



ANNEX 1
Page 13
(c) formulating the work program for extension and soil
conservation;
(d) training counterparts in extension and soil conservation;
and
(e) assisting in the design and implementation of a pilot
soil conservation project.
Essential qualifications of the expert(s) are:
(a) extensive training or experience in extension work and
soil conservation;
(b) experience in directing, monitoring and evaluating extension
activities, preferably from previous work in developing
countries;
(c) very good knowledge of English and ability to write and speak
lucidly on the technical and economic aspects of agriculture.
55.       Improved Extension Facilities.  The work of the extension service
is greatly hampered by the lack of adequate facilities. The main shortages
are office accommodation and meeting rooms, staff housing, vehicles and the
personal equipment which an extension worker needs for his day to day acti-
vities.
56.       Offices and Meeting Rooms.  The project would provide for construc-
tion of 32 extension subcenters (ESCs) in the various states. These would be
located in poverty areas which have agricultural potential and where existing
extension facilities are inadequate. Two ATs would be stationed at each ESC
and the district AA would supervise this office.
57.       The ESCs would complement the existing extension coverage.  The
provision of these facilities will provide farmers with a more convenient
point at which to see the extension worker and will keep the extension workers
closer to the area of operation. The distribution of the ESCs among the
various states is shown in the Supplementary Tables (Report No. 1555a-s-MA).
58.       Living Quarters.  The project provides for a major increase in the
living quarters for extension personnel. A total of 166 houses are required
and the distribution of these by state is shown in Annex 6, Section A. This
is considered an essential feature in improving the extension coverage by
reducing travel distance and time. Most of the housing would be provided in
conjunction with the ESCs so that extension officers could live and work in
the rural areas.
59.       Vehicles and Boats.  The project would provide for additional
vehicles and boats in states where communications are particularly poor and
the existing facilities are inadequate. Hired craft would continue to be
used for sea travel.



ANNEX I
Page 14
60.       Extension Kits.  The typical extension kit which would be provided
under the project is as follows:
Canvas bag (for carrying equipment)
Pruning saw
Secateurs (roll cut)
Budding knife
Polythene strips (at 3/4")
Hand trowel (12")
Measuring tape (100')
Knapsack sprayer (1 gal)
Measuring cylinder
Plastic pail (1-1/2 gal)
Soil indicator kit (a bottle of indicator
and testing dish)
Hand lens
61.       The number of kits and other facilities required by each state is
shown in the following table.
Land               Mobile   Extension
State                ESCs   Quarters    Rovers    Boats    units           kits
Perlis                1        3/4                                           8
Kedah                 4         28                                          52
Penang                2          9                                          21
Perak                 5         13                                          30
Selangor              3         15                    1         1           34
Negeri Sembilan       2          7                                          11
Melaka                2          9                                          21
Johore                4         17                                          42
Pahang                4         17                                          32
Trengganu             3         23                    1                     39
Kelantan              2         27          2         3         2           46
62.       Improved Management.  Deficiencies in management would be overcome
by giving the appropriate instruction and requiring that a formal management
program be followed at circle and district level.
63.       The management structure would be improved by giving line responsi-
bility for all staff working on extension in the state to the SDOA. The addi-
tional SMSs who are to be appointed would increase the support available to
field extension workers. The management structure for the staff located in
the state during the Project Period is shown in Chart WB17604.



ANNEX I
Page 15
Peninsula Extension Component Financing
64.       The project would assist GOM with financing the foreign exchange
component (US$5.50 million); of which US$1.54 million is civil works,
US$1.56 is vehicles and equipment, and US$0.96 million is technical assis-
tance and fellowships. Physical contingencies are US$0.39 million, and
price contingencies are US$1.05 million. All capital costs (including
additional extension staff for the purposes of the project) would be borne by
the Federal Government. Extension (other than in-service training) is a
state function; thus operating costs would be borne by the state. Detailed
financial information is contained in Annex 6, Section A and is summarized on
the following page.
Extension Methodology and Evaluation
65.       The increase in staff and better training would provide the means
to carry out better extension among a greater number of farmers. The project
would introduce a more formal method of working which would involve better
planning of activities, more systematic operation and regular monitoring
and evaluating of extension programs. At state level this would be achieved
as follows.
66.       The SDOA/Chief Extension Officer would be responsible for planning
the state's overall extension priorities in the light of national policies
for agriculture and the particular problems and requirements within the state
itself. These chief extension officers would ensure that the necessary
resources are available for extension and in consultation with the agriculture
officers and SMSs would plan extension objectives. They would also be respon-
sible for monitoring and evaluating extension programs on a state-wide basis
and reporting, as appropriate, both to the state authorities and the federal
DOA.
67.       The Agriculture Officers would be responsible for deciding the
emphasis of extension work and broad advisory programs at circle level within
the framework of the state priorities. They would do this in consultation
with AAs and this group would also decide the training requirements of the
field extension workers and the assistance required from SMSs both in training
and in carrying out promotional work. The AOs must also monitor and evaluate
extension programs on a circle-wide basis and will report to the state's chief
extension officer.
68.       The Agriculture Assistants would work out detailed extension
programs in consultation with the ATs and with the help of the SMSs when
necessary. They would have to organize and direct the field staff and also
give support to the ATs in their field work. They would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating extension programs at district level and would
report to the AO.
69.       The Agricultural Technicians would be responsible in their areas
for executing extension programs which they helped to design. They would use



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Malaysian $ million              US $ million            %
Foreign                       Foreign           Foreign
Local  exchange   Total       Local  exchange  Total  exchange
Civil works                 5.84    3.87       9.71       2.32    1.54      3.86      40
Vehicles                     -      2.97       2.97        -       1.18     1.18    100
Equipment                   0.24    0.95       1.19       0.09    0.38      0.47      80
Staff - regular             7.06     -         7.06       2.80      -       2.80
subject matter
specialists      1.24     -         1.24       0.49      -       0.49
Operating costs /a          2.22     -         2.22       0.88      -       0.88
Fellowships                  -      2.14       2.14        -       0.85     0.85    100
Technical assistance        0.06    0.29       0.35       0.02    0.11      0.13      85
Total Base Costs /b   16.66   10.22        26.88       6.60    4.06    10.66       38
Contingencies
Physical                    0.65    0.98       1.63       0.25    0.39      0.64
Price                       5.43    2.65       8.08       2.17    1.05      3.22
Total                   6.08    3.63        9.71       2.42    1.44      3.86      37
Total Costs                  22.74   13.85      36.59       9.02    5.50    14.52       38
/a  Includes Extension Operating Costs (see Annex 6).
/b Includes elements financed by US$1.31 million allocated for extension under
Loan 1115-MA; US$425,000 for civil works and US$885,000 for equipment.



ANNEX I
Page 17
their initiative to vary programs according to local needs and seasonal
variations and would also assist the SMSs in local investigations and trials.
They would monitor and evaluate the programs carried out in their area and
report to the AA.
70.       The Subject Matter Specialists would be responsible for injecting
specialist knowledge into the extension system wherever it is needed. Prin-
cipally this would embrace training field staff, circulating technical informa-
tion, assisting in identifying problems and deciding priorities, and acting
as a consultant to local extension workers. The SMSs would also have a trial
and development role and would be the main channel for communicating research
requirements to the SARDEC and thence to MARDI. The SMSs would report to the
SDOA or the Chief Extension Officer according to local arrangement.
Extension Philosophy
71.       The purpose of extension is to give objective guidance to farmers
on the availability of new and improved practices and the way in which these
may be incorporated into farming systems so as to increase farm productivity
and profitability. It is not sufficient merely to tell farmers of these new
developments or to demonstrate them and to expect farmers to adopt them
automatically. As a community farmers are cautious. They have to be sure
that the practice will work on their farm. Unless they know and trust the
extension agent they will place little reliance on his advice. Moreover new
farming practices are of different kinds and will need different extension
approaches: some, such as new varieties or new chemicals, are easy for
farmers to adopt while others, such as new cultivation systems or a change of
enterprise are much more difficult. Finally, farmers themselves are a hetero-
genous population, varying in attitude and personality. Some are highly
motivated to make changes whereas others require considerable stimulation.
Some have the credit resources to make innovations; the rate at which others
can change is limited by lack of funds.
72.       The extension worker needs to recognize all these factors and must
accept that he is working with farmers of different abilities, attitudes and
resources. He will know that some can progress more quickly than others and
that some farmers have the managerial ability to handle more complex systems
immediately whereas others must be brought along more slowly. He must curb
any temptation to work only with more capable farmers because his function is
to improve agricultural productivity in a total sense and to give emphasis to
those farmers who are in the lower income groups so that rural poverty may be
reduced. There needs to be a variety of programs, some aimed at the more
progressive farming element, while others of a lower standard are designed to
help the less able farmers improve the fundamentals of their present farming
practices.
73.       Basically there are four extension functions, and these may be
described as information gathering, problem identification and solution,
promotional activities, and consultancy work.
74.       The field extension worker plays a valuable role in problem identi-
fication and solution. The extent to which he will be concerned with problem



ANNEX 1
Page 18
solution depends on the time available. Ideally all extension workers would
be encouraged to have some involvement in local trials and investigations,
these being done in association with the specialists.
75.       Promotional work is a major activity for extension staff; it is
the educational phase of extension work.
76.       The final component in extension is consultancy work:  the extension
agent counsels individual farmers or groups of farmers who have approached
him seeking information.
Proposed Extension Methodology
77.       The basis of the project extension methodology would be systematic
planning and application of extension activities (training, visits, package
inputs and demonstrations) at the farm level beginning with the day-to-day work
of the field level extension worker (agricultural technician) up through the
Area, District, Circle, and State levels of organization. The field agricultural
technician would plan his program on a two to four week schedule, depending on
local requirements, and would plan regular training, demonstration and discus-
sion visits to provide timely agricultural information relevant to the most
important crops and activities in his area. He would conduct regularly scheduled
visits, discussion and demonstrations with farm leaders and other farmers; main-
tain records of visits, information transmitted, acceptance by farmers, and
achievements of farmers. These reports would form part of a cumulative record
of activities and achievements from the Area level, District level, Circle level
and finally the State level where these cumulative records would form the basis
for long-term systematic monitoring, evaluation and planning. It will be a
formal system but not a rigid one, thus leaving room for sufficient flexibility
and initiative at local level to meet particular situations. The broad pattern
of planning for extension will be as follows:
78.       State Level.  The SDOA and his senior technical staff will set
extension priorities in broad terms (see State Extension Organization Chart
WB17603). They will identify the important commodities and the elements
within these where improvement should be sought. Regular annual review at
state level would indicate the average yield for each main crop within the
state and point out which of these are still low and the areas which require
further technical improvement. It would also discuss the prospects for
various crops and particularly the opportunities for expanding the acreage of
some commodities or the reasons for contracting the acreage of others. It
would also make reference to the level of use of some of the main inputs,
e.g. fertilizer, lime or mechanical services and comment on the benefits
which would result from increased usage.
79.       Circle Level.  The AOs in charge of the circles would be involved
in the discussions with the SDOA and SMSs in deciding the broad extension
priorities and opportunities within the state. These in turn would be dis-
cussed at the circle level with the AAs who are in charge of the districts
making up the circle. A list of the most important topics requiring pro-
motional effort in each district would be decided and priorities established.
The group would also review the impact of past extension activities and



ANNEX 1
Page 19
consider which innovations were not fully adopted by the farming community.
Following these discussions each AA would prepare an outline of the extension
programs to be carried out in his district in the next year.
80.       District and Area Level.  Detailed promotional and development
programs for each area in the district would be worked out by the AA and ATs
based on the discussions which have taken place at the circle. The AT
concerned would work out the number of demonstration plots needed and their
location. He would identify where and when to hold meetings with farmers and
the regularity with which these are needed with various farming groups during
the season. He would specify what help he needs from the SMSs and the
facilities required in terms of mobile units and other advisory aids such
as subsidies. The remainder of his time would be free for consultancy work
and would allow opportunities to cope with seasonal crises such as pest
outbreaks, etc. He will also require some time for office duties, meeting
with his supervisors and training. Regular discussions among the staff at
district level and the AA would be held at 2 to 4 week intervals - depending
on need - for formal review of progress and exchange of experiences; the AO
and one or more SMSs would also be present. Their function will be to
comment on the review of progress and indicate any particular technological
input which may be appropriate in the immediate future.
Evaluation
81.       Evaluation of the effectiveness of extension activities would be
a continuous long-term process extending through and beyond the disbursement
period; therefore, emphasis in the project period would be on designing an
effective system. The impact of extension work would be measured in
various ways, e.g. changes in farming practice, increases in crop yield,
changes in crop acreage, improvements in farm incomes, etc.
82.       An essential feature of evaluation is that the degree of success
of extension activities can only really be assessed against some previously
determined objective. Thus, extension workers would have a target for
their programs. These targets would be broadly defined at national and state
level and closely specified at local level. The progress of the extension
programs would be reviewed at the regular staff meetings, and as each program
is completed the AT will make an assessment of its success.
83.       Each year the AA would aggregate the target data and the assessed
achievement from some of the programs in his district. This would be highly
subjective; the AA would list the main problem areas, the crop acreage
involved, and, where possible, an estimate of the physical yield benefits
which resulted from the advice.
84.       Having assembled these data the AA would pass them to the AO who
would aggregate the information on a circle basis adding his own comments on
the outcome of extension activities within his territory. He would then
forward the evaluation reports to the state's chief extension officer who
would prepare an aggregated statement for all extension work. This information
would then be used at state and national level for planning extension priorities
for the next year.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
85.       The extension service would be responsible for evaluating its own
efforts rather than this being a function of some separate agency within the
DOA. Evaluation is an integral part of extension work and the staff need the
information on a continuing basis to assess their priorities and plan their
programs most effectively. Evaluation during the disbursement period would be
of an indicative operational and implementation planning nature although the
evaluation and monitoring system would also be designed to provide policy
planning information to the I4inistry in the long run.
Subsidy Schemes
86.       A brief mention is made above of the need to take subsidy schemes
into account when planning extension programs. The subsidies may be regarded
as an aid to extension rather than a general mechanism to support farm incomes.
On the whole the subsidy schemes seem to be favored by the extension workers
who regard them as an incentive which they can use to promote better technology.
In the Third Malaysia Plan provision is made for increasing the subsidy input;
however, this would not be regarded as an extension function. Provision would
be made for this work to be phased out as a function of the extension staff.
Relationship Between the DOA and Other Extension Agencies
87.       Although the DOA is the main agency responsible for extension work
among smallholders in Peninsular Malaysia there are a number of other organiza-
tions which also operate in the extension field. Chief among these are the
rubber smallholders development authority (RISDA), and the Federal Land Develop-
ment Authority (FELDA).
88.       RISDA is responsible for extension work among smallholders whose
main enterprise is rubber but who may also have a variety of other crops.
The RISDA agents cover extension on these other crops as well as dealing with
the rubber enterprise.
89.       FELDA agents are responsible for carrying out extension among new
land settlers who have been placed on holdings reclaimed under government
development schemes.
90.       The FOA has its origins within the DOA.  The Farmers' Association
Act of 1967 estabished the Farmers' Associations as a component unit of the
DOA with the role of providing input supply, credit, marketing and other
services to support the extension work of the Department. In 1973 the
Farmers' Organization Act superseded the Farmers' Association Act and created
the FOA by merging the Farmers' Associations with existing rural agro-based
cooperatives. By the end of 1975 the DOA staff who had been running the FAs
or carrying out extension work within the FAs either came back to the DOA or
became employees of the FOA. This split has created difficulties. Although
FOA staff are still under the aegis of and paid by the Ministry of Agriculture,
and they remain on the grade level they had in the DOA, the management line
is now separate without any formal linkage between the activities of the FOA
and the DOA extension service.



ANNEX 1
Page 21
91.       Membership of the FAs (farmers' cooperatives) includes the more
progressive farming element in many areas since it is these people who have
recognized the advantage of institutionalized credit and low priced inputs
which the FAs can supply. The remaining farmers have to rely upon the
private sector to obtain credit, this usually being both more difficult to
raise and more expensive.
92.       The FAs have attempted to continue to provide extension to their
membership. This is not part of their official function but something of a
vacuum in extension activities was created when the FAs were separated from
the DOA and it was natural that the FA staff should attempt to fill this gap.
93.       The GOM is aware of the problems and duplication, and it is intended
that the FOA would be developed as an agency supplying credit, input supplies,
and marketing services, and that its incursion into the extension field would
be checked. This mission was satisfied that action was being taken to alleviate
this problem.
94.       RISDA and FELDA will look to the DOA for technical information and
will also make use of the extension service specialists when required. Their
approach to the specialists would, however, be through local extension workers
who may themselves be able to answer many of the problems posed by these other
agencies.
Benefits and Justification
95.       This project aims to benefit the smallholder sector of the farming
community, particularly those smallholders within the poverty group. By
strengthening the extension service and inputs (particularly improved seeds),
both in quantity and knowledge, the information services available to
smallholders will be improved and they will receive more frequent counseling
and guidance on how best to increase the productivity and output of their
holdings. In seeking to raise the income of this basically Malay group of
farmers, the project is in line with the Government's objectives of reducing
rural poverty and income disparities between various sectors of the community.
The prospective increases in crop output will help reduce dependence on
imported foodgrains which is another aim of national policy. Conceptually,
therefore, the project is well justified.
96.       The annual cost of the additional resources required will be approxi-
mately M$9 million when the projected improvements are fully implemented.
This figure is derived from totaling the yearly staff and operating costs,
10% of the building costs and 20% of the equipment costs. When spread over
the smallholder occupied area of 2 million acres it represents an annual
"charge" of M$4.50 per acre. Alternatively, it may be expressed as M$13 per
farm family when spread over the 750,000 smallholdings or M$10,000 per field
extension wo.:ker, of which th re will be around 900 when the new staff are
employed.
97.       Viewed simply, the requirement to generate an additional M$4.50 per
acre from extension activities is a small target. It represents only 8 kg of



ANNEX 1
Page 22
rice at current prices and similar tiny quantities of other products.  But it
is not sufficient that extension should break even. The aim should be to look
for a return on the investment in additional production which is several iu1s
the cost and preferably more.
98.       In a five-year span a competent extension worker would expect that
his leader group of farmers would be making fairly good use of existing techno-
logy, growing the best varieties, using the correct fertilizers and employing
the correct growing techniques and crop protection methods. Rate of growth
towards doubling yields could be in excess of 10% per year, far short of the
theoretical maximum. The next group would be following and could achieve at
least 8% growth. The fringe farmers could expect a 5% annual improvement and
the subsistence farmers' output would have increased by 2% or less.
99.       Calculation of the above benefits in financial terms is inevitably
imprecise. Nevertheless, it gives some guide, and a conservative one, of the
likely impact of improved extension. The average growth in output over the
whole farming community is over 6% and this towards a commercially attainable
target using existing technology and taking no account of the benefit from
further research findings on improved infrastructure.



ANNEX I
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Pre and Post Project Crop Acreage Per Agricultural Technician
Crop Acreage                                          Acreage
State         Covered by    Agricultural Technician         Per Agric. Technician
DOA Staff Ia Pre Project  Post Project   Pre Project  Post Project
'000                                         '000        '000
Perak             285             73           132              3.9         2.15
Johore            233             90           149              2.6         1.56
Selangor          191             56           100              3.4         1.91
Trengganu         129             59           112              2.2         1.15
Kedah             123 /c          42           102              2.9         1.20
Pahang            101             50            96              2.0         1.05
Kelantan          185 /b          26            51              7.1         3.62 /e
Penang             95             40            65              2.4         1.46
Perlis             62 /d          10            24              6.2        2.58
Malaka             46             13            38              3.3         1.21
N. Sembilan        40             36            51              1.1         0.78
Total      1,490            495           920 /f           3.0         1.62
/a  Excludes acreage under rubber and all oil palm and coconut under estate
management.
/b Excludes KADA acreage of 80,000.
/c Excludes MADA acreage of 230,000.
/d Excludes MADA acreage of 30,000.
/e Figure from this State is uncertain as final deployment of staff provided
under the N. Kelantan project is not known.
/f Does not include 115 additional ATs being provided under the N. Kelantan
Project, Loan 1294-MA.



ANNEX I
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Ratio of Agricultural Technicians to Farm Families
Farm     Agricultural Technicians                     Ratio
State           Families   Existing    New    Total              Existing       Expected
Perlis             21,000       10          14       24          1:2,100          1:875
Kedah             108,000       42          60      102          1:2,570          1:1,050
Penang             50,000       40          25       65          1:1,250          1:769
Perak             115,000       73          59     132           1:1,580          1:871
Selangor           78,400       56          44     100           1:1,400          1:784
N. Sembilan        72,000       36          15       51          1:2,000          1:1,411
NIelaka            61,600        13         25       38          1:4,740          1:1,621
Johore             74,000       90          59      149          1:830            1:496
Pahang             68,300       50          46       96          1:1,370          1:711
Trengganu          62,800       59          53      112          1:1,060          1:560
Kelantan /a        34,200       26        (115) /b  51           1:1,320          1:670
Total       745,300       495        400      920           1:1,510         1:810
/a  Total for 3 districts only (Pasir Mar, Tanah Merah, Ulu Kelantan).
/b  Staff to be provided under N. Kelantan project not included in total
"new" or calculation of ratios.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Subproject: Project Implementation Schedule Summary, Peninsula /a
(Constant 1977 M$'000)
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      Total
Total - ESC - Non-ESC
ESC buildings                              10          9          7          4         30
Staff                           66         76        124        116         18       400
Quarters                                   64         71         75         13       213
4-wheel drive vehicles           1         12         20         17         11         61
Boats                                       4          2          -          -          6
Equipment                       66         76        124        116         18       400
Mobil units                                  7         7          6          3         23
Laboratory equipment                                              6          4         10
ESC
ESC buildings                              10          9          7          4        30
Staff                                      20         18         14          8        60
Quarters                                   20         18         14          8        60
4-wheel drive vehicles                     10          9          7          4        30
Equipment                                  20         18         14          8        60
Mobile units                                 7         7          6          3         23
Non-ESC
Staff                           66         56        106        102         10       340
Quarters                                   44         53         51          5       153
4-whee] drive velhicles          1          2         11         10          7        31
Boats                                       4          2          -          -          6
Equipment                       66         56        106        102         10       340
Laboratory equip:nent                                             6          4         10
Soil Coiibervation
Staff                             6         4          9          1          1         21
Subject Matter Specialists          2          9         8          8          5         32
/a  For detailed implementation summary, see Annex 6, Part I, Section A.



MAL A\YSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STATE EXTENSION SERVICE ORGANIZATION
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
National Subject                                 National Extension
Matter Directors                                     Director
I                                                 I 
Suibject Matter                                   State Director
Specialists                                     of Agricultuire
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r_              s         _         _         _         _                 ___  ______
Training                                                        Chief Fxtension                   Workshop and                       Dat a nd
(farmers)                      Developnment                         Officer         j             Mecth. Services                    RegnilatorV
Assistirig Stoff                  Assisting Staff                                                  Assisting Staff                   Assisting Staff
AAs and ATs                       AAs and ATs                                                      AAs and ATs                       AAs and ATs
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -~~~~~_  - -  -
Agriculture                     AgricLlture                      Agriculture
I        Officer-Circle                  Officer-Circle                   Officer-Circle
L~~~~~~~~~~r  ----II---IiZ
Agriculture             [        Agriculture                       Agriculture
Assistant-District        [      Assistanit-District   I   I       Assistant-District
I-----------------                                                                           -----
Agriculture                      Agricuilture       1             Agriculture
Technician-Area                  Technician-Area       J           Technician-Area
line management
-~ -- -          -  functional links
(1) Not pr2sant in all states
(2) Not present in all states                                                     World Bank-17603



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PENINSULA MALAYSIA - EXTENSION SERVICE- FEDERAL LEVEL
PRESENT ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
cI    ...                                      .       i                      ,                         _ AI
I                                                Spca.t                                                      I                                                II
Di,ector                                                      
Development                                             Directors                                                                                                   |      Di-Pcoo Exte.sior,
& T,a.ni,,g                                        Crop Produtieton
.I*                                CroP Protection                                            Director.----
Soils & Analytical Services                                     Drco            
Coconut                                 Education                                                ELU        
F  Replantin                                          Farm  Mechanisttion
f                                   |~~~~~~~~~~~~Assistant Director Extensio.
I                                                     I                                                     II I
Fa| Develot;men    |. If   Fm                       a   rs                  1                       Pillat, on 
Suibject Matte,
SpecialistsI
L                                                    I                                                 SDOA a_nd
State Staff                                 __._  _._..__
W-rd BIRnk--17(02



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Sabah - Extension Component
Introduction
1.        There are major differences between the organization and institu-
tional framework of the Department of Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia on
the one hand and those of Sabah and Sarawak on the other. Nevertheless, the
basic constraints to the effectiveness of extension services are so similar
as to warrant a unified project concept and strategy that is valid on a
Pan-Malaysia basis.
2.        To illustrate the communality of problems, the following features
characterize both West and East Malaysia. Farmers receive little or no
extension guidance, because the extension activity is subordinated to a host
of other activities. Extension workers in direct contact with farmers lack
the required competence and are often uninformed about new developments in
their field both because of the absence of in-service training facilities for
field staff, and poor or inadequate contacts between the research worker and
the extension field staff. The ratios of extension worker to farm families
are far from adequate to make a noticeable impact, especially in the more
depresssed areas. Moreover, they all suffer from severe mobility problems
and lack other facilities, (e.g. transportation, extension equipment, and
housing) that could increase their effectiveness and motivate them in their
tasks.
3.       eIn Sabah, the Department of Agriculture, the Padi Board and the
Rubber Fund Board are the main agencies concerned with services to small-
holders. In contrast to the Mainland, the Sabah State Government is fully
committed to Farmers' Associations as a vehicle for SDOA agricultural programs,
including extension aimed at raising small farmer incomes. Research, extension
and Farmers' Associations are directed and administered by the Department of
AgJIiculture_
4.        With the organization and policy directives in mind, the Sabah
project calls for measures to strengthen not only the extension services of
the SDOA but also the SDOA controlled FAs so as to expand their largely agro-
business operations into new "organic areas". While accommodating the priority
of the FAs' influence zones, the DOA would also provide a more intensive
extension service to the other areas. The DOA's extension responsibility would
embrace all crops except rubber. A similar approach would be taken as on the
mainland, to strengthen the grass roots level staff with specialized extension
education.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The manpower constraints that limit Sabah's capacity for implement-
ing agricultural development programs could be removed if existing services
were augmented and new facilities created to provide preservice agricultural
training and in-service training on a continuous basis for all DOA field staff,
as the RETDCs do on the mainland. The training programs for farmers and home
economics demonstrations would be extended not only to increase farm production
and income, but also to increase the quality of rural life.
6.        Both Sabah and Sarawak are part of Malaysia but in many respects
they operate as separate, independent states. The Federal Government is
anxious to have a Pan-M4alaysia Extension Project and has agreed to fund all
capital costs including those for additional staff. Only the SDOAs from
Sabah and Sarawak would directly "assist" the National Project Director (NPD)
in project implementation; they would manage their own project components and
would defer to the NPD on matters directly related to project financing and
procurement. They would regularly submit annual program budgets and project
reports to the NPD.
Background
7.        Sabah, or old North Borneo on the tropical island of Borneo  lies
roughly between latitudes 4  and 7  north and longitudes 1150 and 119  east.  It
is bounded on the north by the South China Sea and the Sulu Sea, on the east by
the Sulu Sea and the Celebes Sea, on the south by Indonesia and Sarawak, and on
the west by Sarawak, Brunei and the South China Sea. It is largely mountainous
with coastal plains and valleys. Rainfall is normally heavy and vegetation
tropical.
8.        There are many ethnic groups in Sabah.  Farming communities include
Kadagans, Chinese, Muruts, Bajans, Suluk, Runggus, Lundayah, and many others,
each with their own language and varying agricultural skills. These ethnic
groups plus a variety of dialects and different languages make effective
communication difficult. Resistance to change is further complicated by
different cultural traditions and religious beliefs.
9.        Sabah covers 18,257,302 acres of which 92% is forest land and
only 4% is cropped (page 3). Only about 8% of the land is suitable for
diversified agriculture, of which only about 10% is currently under culti-
vation. There is, therefore, great potential for agricultural development.
10.       About 70% of the total (estimated) population of Sabah (737,500
people) were engaged in agriculture in 1974. About 112,000 farm families
are engaged in sedentary agriculture, many of them in subsistence agriculture
but with an increasing number entering the commercial sector. Of the economic-
ally active population 80% are involved in agriculture, forestry, hunting and
fishing (page 4).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       MIalaysia is one of the most prosperous developing countries of Asia
with Sabah reportedly having the largest per capita income of any Malaysian
state, but the income distribution there is so skewed that the great majority
of people subsist on a very low income.
Present Land Use Survey, 1970
Land use category            Total acreages        (%)
Urban                                      17,900           0.10
Land under development                      7,095           0.04
Horticultural crops                       81,774            0.45
Major export crops (tree crops)/a        475,488            2.60
Minor crops/b                              10,874           0.06
Padi                                      92,829            0.51
Grassland (including pastures)           385,819            2.11
Forest                                16,783,946           91.93
Unused and unclassified land              234,994           1.29
Others/c                                 166,583            0.91
Total                              18,257,302         100.00
/a Includes rubber, oil palm, coconuts, cocoa.
/b Includes coffee, tea, pepper, sago, fiber crops.
/c Erosion scars and landslides, diversified crops, shifting
cultivation, fish and hyacinth, recently cleared land.
Source: The Present Land Use of Sabah, 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Economically Active Population by Occupation, 1960
% of
economically
% of total       active
Males  Females   Total    population    population
Total population              236,616  217,805  454,421         100.0
Over 15 years                 101,548   96,278  197,826          43.5
Economically active /a        123,317   53,309  176,626          38.9             -
Engaged in agriculture,
forestry, hunting and
fishing                      94,474   47,639  142,113         31.3           80.5
Mining and quarrying              508        27       535           -           0.3
Manufacturing                   5,437    1,300    6,737             -           3.8
Building and construction       4,138       350    4,488            -           2.5
Electricity and water
sanitary services               271        14       285           -           0.2
Commerce                        6,617    1,117    7,734             -           4.4
Transport and communication   4,575          82    4,657            -           2.6
Service                         7,297    2,780   10,077             -           5.7
/a  Economically active includes all persons over 15 spending one third or more
of normal working time in occupations contributing to the State's output of
goods and services.
Source: Census of Population, 1960.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       Exploitation of timber resources is progressing at an alarming
rate. Timber exports in 1974 were in excess of M$870 million and accounted
for 80% of the export value of principal agricultural products. The principal
exports of cultivated crops in order of value are palm oil, rubber cocoa beans,
palm kernel, and acid copra.
13.       The Land Settlement Schemes are important in promoting sedentary and
commercial agriculture. In 1974, the Sabah Land Development Board had settled
2,391 families with 50,486 planted acres under the Major Settlement Schemes and
the SDOA 9,105 families with 33,088 acres planted under the Minor Settlement
Schemes.
14.       Much of the 750,000 cultivated acres of Sabah is utilized
for export crops - rubber 260,000 acres, oil palm 140,000, coconut 130,000
and cocoa 20,000. Sabah imports 40% of its padi while only 120,000 acres
are planted to hill wet and Kendinga swamp varieties.
15.       About one third of the rubber acreage is owned by estates and
two thirds by smallholders. Yields and prices vary greatly, but returns
for most smallholders are considered unsatisfactory. Most of the oil palm
is owned by estates and returns are considered good. About 80% of the coconut
acreage is cultivated by smallholders - over 10,000 of them with an average of
about 8 acres - and returns are generally considered unsatisfactory. About 40%
of the cocoa acreage is cultivated by smallholders with an average of 8 acres.
Current prices are high and per farm returns to smallholders are around M$16,000,
about 10 times those for coconut. All padi is grown by smallholders. About
10,000 acres of irrigated padi is double cropped, and the average smallholding
is about 3 acres. Yields are about 2,000 lb per acre with local varieties and
up to 3,200 lb with HYVs. Maize is grown by about 6,500 smallholders averaging
2 acres each, with yields of about 3,000 lb per acre. Commercial vegetable
production for the local markets is the main occupation of about 1,100 families
on about 1,500 acres.
Oil Palm
16.       Oil palm is cultivated on 134,000 acres by estates while only 2,820
acres are planted by smallholders; 86,609 tons of palm oil and 20,123 tons of
kernel, valued at M$120,629,000 were exported in 1974. The average smallholder
with 6 to 8 acres has an income of about M$9,000 per year. About 400 families
are oil palm smallholders.
Rubber
17.       There are about 260,000 acres of rubber in the State; 87,748 are
cultivated by estates and 169,485 by smallholders. Total exports in 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 6
were 31,105 tons of rubber of all types, valued at M$50,464,000. Yields
vary from 650 lb to 1,650 lb rubber sheet per acre. The average size of a
smallholding is about 5-3/4 acres and there are about 29,647 rubber small-
holders.
Cocoa
18.       Approximately 24,000 acres of cocoa have been planted in Sabah,
14,616 acres by estates or cooperatives and the remainder by smallholders.
In 1974 a total of 4,432 tons of beans valued at M$16,030,000 were exported.
There are about 1,200 cocoa smallholders with an average holding of about
8 acres.
Coconut
19.       The present acreage of coconuts in the State is estimated at 130,888
acres, of which 31,654 acres are cultivated by estates or cooperatives and
99,234 acres by smallholders which together produced 9,672 tons of copra valued
at M$10,683,000 and 377 tons of coconut oil valued at M$813,000 in 1974. There
are about 10,600 smallholders cultivating coconut, with an average holding of
about 8-9 acres. Research into varietal selection of coconuts has just started,
but no releases have yet been made to farmers.
Rice
20.       There are 93,000 acres of wet padi in Sabah, with an additional
2,638 acres of Kendinga (swamp) padi and about 29,000 acres of hill padi (the
latter mainly cultivated by the hill tribes practicing shifting agriculture).
About 10,000 acres of padi was double cropped in 1975. The entire acreage is
cultivated by about 39,000 smallholders. The State Government plans to
substantially increase rice acreage and yields during the TMP by providing
improved seeds, extension, and irrigation.
Maize
21.       The 13,000 acres planted to sedentary maize in the State is culti-
vated by about 6,500 smallholders with yields averaging nearly 3,000 lb.
Farmers can plant three crops a year; however, they normally grow maize in
rotation with groundnuts or other crops which leaves the land fallow for one
crop season. A substantial increase in maize acreage is planned during the TMP
period.
Vegetables
22.       There are about 80,000 acres of horticultural crops in the state and
1,100 smallholders planting 2,127 acres to vegetables for their primary source
of income.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Agricultural Exports and Imports
23.       The principal agricultural exports in 1974 are shown below. Timber
accounts for 80% of the value of cultivated crop exports with palm oil exports
valued at M$105 million accounting for almost half. Rubber exports at 14$50 mil-
lion account for less than one quarter and cocoa beans at M$16 million are
in third place.
24.       Agricultural imports into Sabah in 1974 were about M$110 million
as shown below. Rice is by far the largest item, amounting to almost M$48 mil-
lion, followed by cereal products and dairy products. The Government gives
high priority to reducing the food and feed crop deficit.
Exports of Principal Agricultural Products, 1974
Tons                   M$ '000
Timber /a                    5,402,190                  871,370
Rubber                          31,105                   50,464
Palm oil                        86,609                  105,485
Palm kernel                     20,123                   15,144
Copra /b                         9,672                   10,683
Coconut oil                        377                      813
Cocoa beans                      4,432                   16,030
Prawns                           1,821                   12,467
Other                                                    14,567
Total                                            1,097,023
/a Tons of 50 cu ft.
/b Includes re-exports.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Imports of Some Agricultural Products, 1974 /a
Tons                    M$ '000
Rice                            42,253                    47,973
Wheat                               230                      141
Maize                             3,832                    1,744
Wheat flour                       9,173                    6,860
Maize for animal feed             5,948                    2,823
Macaroni, etc.                    3,357                    5,965
Vegetables, fresh                5,227                     2,902
Fruit, fresh                      2,156                    2,812
Milk, condensed                                            6,348
Full cream, infant feeding                                 3,991
Beef, frozen                        110                      765
Eggs                                                         827
Poultry line                                               1,166
Poultry products, frozen                                     968
Sugar                           29,808                    27,810
/a Including imports from West Malaysia, primarily rice.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Existing Organization of the Department of Agriculture
25.        As shown in Chart WB16925 there are three assistant directors of
agriculture (research, development and extension); also two officers in charge
of training, and personnel and headquarters administration.
Organization of the DOA Extension Branch
26.        The line of administration in the Extension Branch is as shown in
Chart WB16926.
27.       Under the project, the Extension Branch of the Department would be
fully responsible for all aspects of development and extension for all crops
except rubber (Chart WB16924). Apart from some administrative duties, such
as land inspection, station operation and maintenance, and subsidies, the main
activity of this branch is extension. Each of the four Residencies (a
political subdivision), has a Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) in charge who
is a professionally qualified man with managerial experience. The SAO
supervises two or more academically qualified agricultural officers (AOs) who
are in charge of the Districts. Under the AOs are assistant agricultural
officers (AAOs) and the assistant development officers (ALDOs) (diploma
holders) who are the main supervisory staff. The front-line workers are the
agricultural assistants and the junior agricultural assistants. Where
Farmers' Associations (FAs) exist in a District, the agricultural officer is
also in charge of the FA and extension work carried on by the FAs. Extension
staff, if not actually working for the Farmers' Associations work in very
close liaison with the FA staff. Most of the Agricultural Assistants and
Junior Agricultural Assistants are posted to villages throughout the District.
An active and highly developed unit of the state extension service carries
out an effective nutrition, child care, family planning and home demonstration
program.
28.        Certain political and welfare appointments exist in the DOA.  These
appointments are not held against established posts nor are they included in
the Federal pension program. The mission was assured that these positions
are financed from a special fund and would not directly affect the Extension
budget.
29.        Detailed analyses of the number of staff per district together with
their respective quarters are given in Table 2. Extension officers are
presently assigned to manage and operate Farmers' Associations (Table 3);
staff for the additional nine FAs would also be provided under the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Present Activities of the Extension Branch (DOA)
30.       Chart WB16926 shows the six main activities of the Extension Branch
of DOA. These are the District Administration and Extension, Information
Services, FAs, Rural Training Centers, Home Economics, and Minor Settlement
Schemes.
District Administration and Extension
31.       The District Administration is set forth in Chart WB16926.  The
present Extension effort is an essential component of development programs
which are themselves good vehicles to carry on extension.
Farmers Associations
32.       Five FAs offering a range of services-input supply (credit, marketing,
consumer goods, extension) have been established since 1971 in the more inten-
sive farming areas. Produce marketing has been the main activity supported by
supply of consumer goods and chemicals. The FAs are organized by the Extension
Branch of DOA which supplies the staff, a loan for a revolving fund of M$50,000
and transport. Government policy is to develop the FAs as the main thrust of
future agricultural development amongst smallholders.
33.       The five area FAs consist of 79,347 acres of which about 33,770 acres
were planted with padi, rubber, coconut, fruits, maize, and other annual crops.
In October 1974, they had 3,792 members. The FAs are a major vehicle through
which extension in agriculture would operate. Nine more FAs would be organized
under the project.
34.       The FAs are really quasi-government organizations which enjoy semi-
monopolistic privileges. The Sabah Government provides the FA with staff, the
office building, vehicles, farm machinery, etc. and does control competition
to the FA by withholding a license from would-be competitors. Further, the
DOA appoints the General Manager of the FA and one third of the Board of
Directors of the FA.
35.       Chart WB17601 shows the organization of the FA system within the
extension branch. While all FAs have made profits in some years, four of the
five associations have lost money in at least two of the six years (see Table 4).
Increased emphasis on management would help resolve financial problems.
The Sabah Padi Board
36.       The primary aim of the Sabah Padi Board is to improve the socio-
economic conditions of the rice growers by:



ANNEX 2
Page 11
(a) encouraging farmers to practice modern methods of rice cultivation,
i.e. farm mechanization, proper use of farm machinery and farm
inputs, and post-planting husbandry;
(b) increasing farm production by using short-term HYVs in areas with
adequate irrigation and drainage facilities; and
(c) stabilizing market prices for padi produced in Sabah for the
local market.
The Padi Board confines its activities to the main rice growing areas, namely
Kudat, West Coast and Interior Residencies. The Board has staff based at
Kudat, Bandau, Kota Belud, Tuaran, Penampang, Papar Beaufort, Tenom, Keningau,
Tambunan and Ranau, in these areas with offices, stores, staff quarters
and transport. Rice schemes would be expanded during the TMP.
Rubber Fund Board
37.       The Rubber Fund Board restricts its activities to the main rubber
growing areas, with extension officers based in Tambunan, Keningau, Beaufort
and Tuaran to cover these and other contiguous districts.
38.       Its objectives are:
(a) raising the rubber smallholder's income by increasing the produc-
tivity of his smallholdings;
(b) ensuring adequate marketing facilities for the smallholders, and
providing them with "know-how" on modern methods of rubber cultiva-
tion and processing;
(c) training unemployed youths in rural areas as rubber tappers;
(d) increasing employment opportunities through the sound exploitation
of existing rubber acreages; and
(e)  expanding the production of technically specified rubber (SMR).
39.       Facilities for the training of youths as rubber tappers are pro-
vided at the Board's Estate at Sungei Damit, and employment opportunities
would be provided by rehabilitating abandoned areas of moribund rubber and
converting them to productive rubber schemes.
40.       Where the Board encourages the planting of other crops, the exten-
sion work is done by DOA. The Board also maintains a close liaison with the
FAs which organize the purchasing of rubber on behalf of the Board within their
organic areas. In these areas, the FAs carry out extension work for rubber.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
The Project
41.       The project would finance the development of state extension services
within the context of the existing organization of the State Department of
Agriculture (Chart WB16925), and the Department of Veterinary Services (Chart
WB16930). The project would cover all crops and livestock and focus on the
poverty groups of smallholders and shifting cultivators.
42.       The objectives of extension would be to assist farmers to mobilize
their resources by employing new and improved techniques at an optimum level
to increase production and income. To accomplish this, extension would estab-
lish effective communications with the rural community by frequent contact
between extension workers and farmers. An effective extension service must
therefore have adequate numbers of informed workers in the field. An element
of paternalism would be utilized and accepted in the relatively undeveloped
agricultural situation of Sabah where the extension worker would take the
initiative and go to the farmer because the farmer would not go to the exten-
sion service until it has become well established and known. This would
require: (a) strengthening extension services in numbers, quality, and support-
ing services and facilities; (b) better organization; (c) better management;
(d) better training; and (e) better planning of priorities. To meet these
objectives and priorities, the project would provide:
(a) Staff - an increase of 129 extension staff (100 JAAs [Table 5], 25
AAs and 4 AOs). Table 3 shows staff, housing and location. FA staff
would be increased to a total of 70; 5 for each of the 14 FAs (9 FAs
to be financed under the project). No additional home eonomics staff
would be recruited. Instead, emphasis would be placed on training
and upgrading the existing 18 home demonstration HDs and 72 AHDs.
(b) Civil Works - staff housing (63 units) and quarters, offices and
stores and all the buildings and facilities for 9 FAs (see Annex 2,
Tables 1 and 2 for numbers, location and implementation schedule).
(c)  Transport - 4 WD vehicles, trucks, motorcycles, boats and motors
(see Annex 2, Table 1 for numbers, distribution and implemen-
tation schedule).
(d) Equipment - extension kits, laboratory equipment, etc.
(e) Fellowships - 32 man-years for short-term study tours, degrees and
postgraduate degrees.
(f) Consultants - 2 man-years for extension consultants.
(g)  Training - in-service training facilities (RETDC) in conjunction
with the Agricultural Vocational School (AVS), and strengthening
of the Farm Mechanization Training Unit, all at Timbong Menggaris
north of Kota Kinabalu (Annex 5).



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Project Component Financing
43.       The project would assist GOM with financing the foreign exchange com-
ponent (US$2.65 million), of which US$0.48 million is civil works, US$0.80 mil-
lion is vehicles and equipment, and US$0.47 million is technical assistance
and fellowships. Physical contingencies are US$0.17 million, and price
contingencies are US$0.83 million. All capital costs (including additional
extension staff for the purposes of the project) would be borne by the
Federal Government. Extension (other than in-service training) is a state
function; thus operating costs would be borne by the state. Sabah extension
component financial details are contained in Annex 6, Section A and are
summarized in the table on page 14.
State Organization and Management
44.       The project would be implemented through the existing Government
channels (Chart WB16924). The Director of Agriculture would be the Project
Manager responsible for all aspects of project implementation including those
undertaken by DVS. He would be responsible to the National Project Director
at the Federal level only insofar as the project is concerned.
45.       The Extension Branch would be responsible for all Project implementa-
tion activities and it is envisaged that an area approach would be adopted,
using the district minor development scheme, and FA organic area basis. During
the first year the project would concentrate on 5 Districts, the remaining 13
districts, primarily with sedentary agriculture, would be strengthened in the
subsequent 4 years.
District Level Organization
46.       The District Agricultural Officer (AO) would be responsible for all
DOA extension branch and home economics activities except those involving dis-
trict FA staff activities in the district. He would have three types of staff:
(a) Extension staff, almost totally involved with giving advice and
conducting demonstrations at kampong level. Where there are FAs, the
JAAs (Extension) would be deployed to serve these organic areas, on
the basis of 1:500 farm families. Other JAAs (Extension) would
be used for servicing areas outside the FA organic area on the same
basis; farmers in the organic areas but not members of the FAs would
also be serviced. Staff deployed in the FA organic areas would be
supervised by AAs, AAOs and AOs outside the FAs, but would liaise
closely with FA management. Soil conservation and farm mechaniza-
tion activities would be developed as a normal function of extension.
(b) Administrative staff responsible for land inspections, subsidies,
pest and disease control campaigns and other administrative duties.
(c) Home Economics.
DOA staff assigned to FAs would assist them with other administrative duties,
credit input, supply and marketing activities. They would be responsible
through the FA General Manager to the AO (FAs) in DOA Headquarters.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Sabah Extension Cost Summary
Malaysial. $ million             US $ million           %
Foreign                       Foreign           Foreign
Local  exchange   Total       Local  exchange  Total  exchange
Civil works                 1.41    1.22       2.63       0.56    0.48      1.04     46
Vehicles                    -       1.75       1.75       -       0.69      0.69    100
Equipment                  0.07    0.27        0.34       0.03    0.11      0.14     80
Staff                      2.23      -         2.23      0.88      -        0.88
Operating costs /a          1.89     -         1.89      0.75      -        0.75
Fellowships                 -       0.63       0.63        -      0.25      0.25    100
Technical assistance       0.06    0.32        0.38      0.02    0.15       0.15     85
Total Base Costs /b    5.66    4.19         9.85      2.24    1.68      3.92      43
Contingencies
Physical                   0.16    0.42        0.58      0.06    0.17      0.23
Price                      1.75    2.07        3.82      0.70    0.80       1.50
Total                   1.91    2.49       4.40       0.76    0.97      1.73      54
Total Costs                   7.57    6.68      14.25       3.00    2.65      5.65     47
/a  Includes Extension Operating Costs (see Annex 6).
/b  Includes elements financed by US$1.31 million allocated for extension under
Loan 1115-MA; US$425,000 for civil works and US$885,000 for equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
District Staff Dealing with Extension
47.  (a)  JAAs deployed in FA organic areas would service 5-10 Small Agri-
cultural Units (one SAU is usually a kampong) on a regular basis.
Their contact point would be the SAU chief who is usually a progres-
sive farmer elected by the farmers themselves. They would visit each
SAU on a given day once a fortnight when they would carry the relevant
extension message for the season. They would also attend the weekly
market.
(b) JAAs not deployed in FA organic areas would work in a similar manner
except that they would organize less formal farmers' groups and work
through a contact farmer who would usually be the village headman.
AAs
48.       AAs would supervise all JAAs on a basis of 2-3 JAAs:l AA. They
would spend much of their time with their JAAs, meeting them on a fixed day
fortnightly to provide the appropriate extension message and undertake field
demonstrations and trial plots. They would spend most of their time in the
field.
AAOs
49.       AAOs would be responsible for all non-FA affairs of a subdistrict
and would spend about 30-50% of their time supervising the subdistrict exten-
sion effort, and helping to organize programs and training sessions.
AOs
50.       AOs would spend around 30% of their time overseeing the District
extension effort; their main role would be coordinating all Extension Branch
work within subdistricts and assisting with the coordination between agencies.
Organization and Operation of the Department of Veterinary Services
51.       This Department is newly established and until recently was a branch
of the Department of Agriculture. At Headquarters, there is a Director assisted
by two Senior Veterinary Officers, one responsible for administration and
Veterinary Services and the other for the development of research and production
of cattle and pastures.
52.       There is a Veterinary Officer at Residency level, with AVOs under
him at District level; field-level extension work is carried out by the JAHA.
53.       The Veterinary Department has officers in each district, with
an office and staff in most subdistricts. While they mainly extend a service
for disease control, vaccination and treatment, a considerable amount of exten-
sion work on animal husbandry is also done. The Department would also serve as
a source for the supply of improved breeding stock, day-old chicks from the
Likas Poultry Unit, breeding pigs from Tuaran, Sandakan, Kudat and Tenom as well
as artificial insemination service from Tuaran and Sandakan. Goats are supplied



ANNEX 2
Page 16
from Sandakan, Kudat and Bongawan and cattle from livestock stations at Sebrang,
Rosok and Tawau. A considerable effort of the extension service, particularly
in the Interior, would be on the improvement of grazing reserves. This would
include fencing the reserves with the Department providing the material and the
farmers who use the reserves doing the work. Whereas the main effort would be
in the Interior, work would also be carried out in Beaufort, Papar, Kota Belud
and Ranau Districts. The project provides for an increase in staff, facilities
and equipment to strengthen and expand these extension activities.
Extension Methodology
54.       Regularization of contact between extension workers and farmers is
important in establishing an effective program. Each month, the contact exten-
sion worker would visit every village within his area at least twice, spending
three or four days a week on such visits. He would plan to spend every Saturday
morning in his office making up his diary and completing paper work. He would
spend one day a week looking after special projects, such as demonstration
plots. In addition, most districts have a "Tamu" or market day at least once
a week, when all the surrounding farmers come to town to sell their produce and
meet their friends. The extension worker would make a point of being at the
Tamu where he would contact the farmers he has been unable to see on his routine
visits, and, more important, the farmers can contact the extension worker.
55.       While the front-line extension worker is performing his duties, the
AAO and ALDO would also be visiting each of the subdistricts checking up on
the work being carried out in the field. They would also visit a different
subdistrict each day for three or four days of the week, often accompanying
the extension worker on his visits to the kampongs.
56.       When visiting a village, the extension worker would first make contact
with the village headman. This is necessary both from a protocol point of view,
as by ignoring the headman, he may find that on future visits, all doors are
closed to him, and because the headman knows everything that is happening within
the tight circle of the village community and is the best person to give informa-
tion on the agricultural activities of his villagers. He would then visit some
of the village smallholdings, talk to the farmers themselves, and give agricul-
tural advice. Before leaving, he would inform the villagers of the date and
time of his next visit, so that they will be expecting him.
57.       The problem of the Extensions' close liason with the Subsidy Schemes
are not as overburdening in Sabah as in some other parts of Malaysia. These
subsidy schemes do give an entry to Extension work and a demonstration impact
to Extension.
58.       Subject matter Extension specialists based at the Research Center
would not be necessary because of (a) the embryonic stage in development of
the Extension program, and (b) work done at the Research Headquarters is all
of an applied problem-oriented nature and the researchers are expected to do
the necessary Extension backstopping work in their field. While in some states
this would not be possible it should work in Sabah as the Research organization
is under the direction of the Director of Agriculture who is also in charge
of Extension through his assistant director for Extension.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
59.       In districts where there are Farmers' Associations, the area is
divided up into small agricultural units (SAUs). Each SAU consists of one large
village, or a number of small adjacent villages. The members of the FA in each
SAU elect one farmer to be the SAU Chief. He is not necessarily the headman,
but is generally a progressive farmer who gets on well with his neighbors, and
is able to obtain their cooperation. This man would be contacted by the FA's
Extension Assistant when he visits the area. A set program would be made out so
that the contact man knows when he may expect a visit from the Extension Assist-
ant and would make himself available at the given time and place. Before the
visit, he would inform the other SAU members of the FA so that any of them with
problems can attend.
60.       The organization of the Extension Branch from Headquarters down
to field level is shown in Chart WB16926. The project would be supervised by
the Assistant Director (Extension) from Headquarters. He would give instructions
to the SAOs in charge of Residencies as to what crops should be emphasized in
their areas, availability of funds, additional staff, and so on. The SAO would
call regular meetings of all his District AOs and area staff (AAOs and AAs) to
pass these instructions on to them and to discuss the best methods of implementa-
tion. The District AOs would then be responsible for implementation. They
would set targets for all their AAs in charge of subdistricts or areas, and
maintain constant supervision, with the help of their AAOs and ALDOs to ensure
that close liaison is maintained with the farmers and the extension tasks are
efficiently carried out. The AAs and JAAs would be in direct contact with the
farmers.
61.       Each AA or JAA would have an area allocated to him, and it would be
his task to ensure that he knows the head of every farm family in his area,
the location of their farms, what crops are being planted, and what their
problems are, both agricultural and social. He would visit regularly each area
under his control. His first contact would be with the village headman of
each farming community. He would hold regular meetings with the headman and
with the other senior villagers to talk over their problems and to put forward
any Government views on agriculture, such as pushing the production of sorghum,
or stressing the desirability of intercropping coconuts with cattle or other
crops. He would also advise on technical matters such as planting distances,
best manurial methods, pest and disease control, soil suitability (with assist-
ance from the Research Soils Section) and so on. In addition, he would listen
to any problems the farmers have, and if they are beyond his technical ability,
he would raise them with his AO. The AO would give the necessary advice, or
would refer the matter back to Headquarters to be dealt with by the AD(E) or his
staff, or if necessary, referred to the Research Branch. The answer would then
be handed down through the same channels.
Farmers Associations
62.       The Sabah state government is fully committed to FAs as the main
vehicle through which agricultural programs, aimed at raising small farmers'
incomes, are to be executed. With these policy directives in mind, the project
would not only strengthen the extension services of the SDOA but also finance
the establishment of nine additional FAs. While accommodating the priority
claims of the FAs' influence zones, the DOA would also provide intensified
extension services to adjacent areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
63.       Unlike Peninsular Malaysia, where the Farmers' Organizations have
been separated from the DOA and are now separate entities under the Farmers'
Organization Authority, the FAs in Sabah would remain an integral part of the
DWA. The staff of the FAs in Sabah are members of the Extension Branch of the
Deparment. Chart WB16929 shows the organization of the FAs within the Extension
Branch.
64.       Three FAs would be established at Kudat, Lahad Datu and Semporna in
the first three years of the project. The following year a further three FAs
would be set up at Tuaran, Penampang and Beaufort, with an additional three
being established during 1979/80 at Tambunan, Kinabatangan and Labuk. The
project would finance staff, equipment, and office and storage facilities for
the FAs.
65.       The details of these proposed FAs are as follows:
No. of     Total no. of
Area              villages       farmers           Crops to be dealt with
Kudat                -             13,073       Coconut, rubber, padi, maize
Lahad Datu           29             5,565       Coconut, rubber, cocoa, padi
Semporna             78             3,655       Coconut, rubber, cocoa, maize
Tuaran              199             6,682       Coconut, rubber, cocoa, maize
Penampang            24             4,814       Rubber, padi, maize
Beaufort            101             8,575       Coconut, rubber, padi, maize
Tambunan            238             7,254       Rubber, padi, maize
Kinabatangan         60             2,076       Coconut, rubber, padi
Labuk                62             5,384       Coconut, rubber, cocoa, padi
66.       The numbers of farmers indicated in the above figures are those for
the entire District. About 45-50% of the farmers in the Kudat, Tambunan and
Labuk districts and 60-70% of those within the other districts live inside these
organic areas.
67.       Each FA would be provided with an office/store, quarters for the
staff, one Landrover, and one five-ton truck. New FAs would be started with a
staff which includes a General Manager, an Accounts Chief (who will also double
as Credit Chief), an Economic Chief (who will also carry out the duties of
Extension Chief) and two EAs.
Minor Settlement Schemes
68.       Major Settlement Schemes are the responsibility of the Sabah Land
Development Board while the Department of Agriculture Extension Branch has
jurisdiction over the Minor Settlement Schemes.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
69.       There are 84 minor schemes (one of the most successful aspects of
land development) to assist both farmers who lack resources and the landless
and shifting cultivators to obtain titles and develop land. These farmers are
supplied with seedlings, fertilizers, chemicals, etc., and are shown the best
methods of developing and caring for their land and crops.
70.       Minor Settlement Schemes are designed to help groups of at least
10 settlers with preference going to groups of around 50 or more individuals and
longhouse communal groups.
71.       There are now 45,298 acres planted under minor development schemes
and more than 20,000 acres should be added under the Minor Settlement Schemes
during the project period. Under the TMP these development schemes would
require an investment of M$9.0 million.
72.       These Minor Settlement Schemes are aimed at the eradication of rural
poverty. There are 7,825 families actually engaged in new schemes under develop-
ment, with another 5,976 families benefitting from schemes already completed.
Thus 10% of the rural population of Sabah are benefitting from the schemes. The
goal of these schemes is to assist settler farmers earn at least M$300 per month
when the scheme is in full production; some are already earning up to M$1,000
per month. The program is reasonably well managed and has high priority as a
channel of extension activities under the project.
Veterinary Department
73.       The Veterinary Department has officers in each district and an
office and staff in most subdistricts (see Chart WB16930).  While veterinary
extension provides a service for disease control, vaccination and treatment, a
considerable amount of extension work on animal husbandry and pasture development
is also done. The Department also serves as a source of improved breeding stock.
A considerable effort of the extension services, particularly in the Interior,
is expended on the improvement of grazing reserves. The project would provide
staff, quarters, equipment and training to strengthen extension activities of
the Department of Veterinary Services. The main effort has been in the interior,
but also at Beaufort, Papar, Kota Belud and Ranau Districts.
Soil Conservation
74.       The Soils Division is responsible for the provision of soil services
through the Extension Branch; however, very little attention has been given to
soil conservation in Sabah, in spite of the obvious detrimental effects of
shifting cultivation and uncontrolled logging operations. The State Department
of Agriculture has recognized these problems and plans to strengthen its soil
conservation extension efforts by training extension staff, encouraging sedentary
agriculture, and controlling shifting cultivation and logging operations. Soil
conservation would thus be developed as one of the activities of the extension
service. Fellowships would be utilized to strengthen expertise in the field,
and an immediate effort would be made to familiarize selected extension officers



ANNEX 2
Page 20
with known conservation techniques that would be applied immediately. This
knowledge would be obtained through short visits and study tours to areas in
the region where soil conservation techniques are being effectively applied.
Home Economics and Home Demonstration Extension
75.       The staff of the Home Demons.tration Section consists of two AAOs,
18 HDs and 72 JHDs. The equipment issued to them is inadequate and consists of
sewing machines, portable cooking stoves, cooking utensils, medical equipment
and scales. They have no transport, and have to rely on the goodwill of the
District Agricultural Officer to get them to their destinations. The project
would provide equipment and transport for home demonstrations. Home demonstra-
tion staff would be given periodic in-service training. No increase in staff
is envisaged under the project. Equipment, transport and training would
enable the Home Economics unit of extension to strengthen and expand their
activities in child care, family planning, hygiene, sanitation and improvement
of rural living conditions and rural life.
The Agricultural Information Service
76.       The functions of the Aricultural Information Service (equivalent to
ELU in Peninsular Malaysia and SELU in Sarawak) with a staff of 27 provide the
necessary agricultural information and research findings to the Extension Branch
Officers, home demonstrators and to the farmers. They also produce audio-visual
aids for use of the Education Branch institutions and give agricultural informa-
tion through the mass media. The aim of this section is to disseminate informa-
tion to the farmers that will increase their knowledge and so improve their
managerial skills and productivity. The AIS would play a major role in streng-
thening extension services under the project. The Agricultural Information
Service is organized as shown in Chart WB16928.
Agricultural Mechanization
77.       Shortage of farm power and draft animals is one of the major con-
straints to agricultural production in Sabah. In many areas of the state, land
development and production are directly related to the availability of tractors
for land preparation. The SDOA provides mechanization services through the
FAs, and encourages the private ownership of tractors. Mechanization has
been costly and inefficient because of the shortage of mechanical skills and
inadequate supporting infrastructure. The Department of Agriculture proposes
to relieve this constraint and protect the large investment (estimated
to be more than M$5.0 million by the DOA alone) in machinery by improving
training facilities for operators and mechanics and providing mechanization
extension services under the project.
78.       The project proposes to alleviate the mechanization constraint and
waste of resources by financing the establishment of a Farm Mechanization
Training Unit in association with the Agricultural Vocational School and RETDC
(see Annex 5). It would also provide the services of a mechanization extension
specialist to advise and assist the training unit and the farm machinery units
operated by tihe FAs and the Padi Board.



ANNEX 2
Page 21
Training Component
79.       The training component would comprise mostly the expansion of the
following facilities at Timbang Menggaris north of Kota Kinabalu:
(a) The Agricultural Vocational School (AVS) for 3 years' preservice
training with a capacity (total) of 180 students would be completed
and a 300 acre farm established;
(b) The Agricultural Training Center (ATC) currently in aged facilities
at Tuaran, near Kota Kinabalu, equivalent to an RETDC and used
for in-service training with a capacity of 60 students per course
would be re-established;
(c) A Farm Mechanization Training Service for tractor drivers with
a capacity of 10 per course of 3 months would be established.
80.       The AVS completion would involve staff quarters, an improved road
network, school equipment, library, transport, farm equipment, and telephone
services. The ATC would comprise a classroom block, 2 student hostels, staff
quarters and services, and the FMTC an office/workshop, staff quarters and
machinery.
Rural Training Centers
81.       There are two Rural Training Centers to provide farmer training, one
located at Tamu Darat, near Kota Belud, and the other at Damai, in the Kota
Marudu District of Kudat. There are also two centers for specialized crops at
Ulu Dusun Oil Palm Research Station and Quoin Hill Cocoa Research Station. The
program and facilities of these centers are inadequate and would be renovated
and upgraded during this project. The project would provide new classrooms,
hostels, staff quarters, training of staff and training materials (see Annex 5.)
Fellowships
82.       The project would provide for 32 man-years of fellowships to upgrade
the operational and management ability of agricultural services in Sabah.
These fellowships would provide for specialized overseas study tours, degree
and postgraduate degree training and would be complementary to the relatively
large local training component.
83.       Management and subject matter specialists are considered to be the
key to extension throughout Malaysia, thus fellowships would serve to relieve
these constraints. In addition, fellowships would provide the mobility and
incentives for career development within the agricultural services of the DOA.
The categories of specialization being considered are (a) extension methodology,
(b) agricultural mechanization extension, (c) general agriculture (crops),
(d) plant protection, (e) farm management, (f) soil conservation, and (g) soils
technology.



ANNEX 2
Page 22
Technical Assistance
84.       The project would provide 4.25 man-years of technical assistance
for Sabah. Four years would be utilized for extension and 0.25 years for
seeds (Annex 4). Short-term organizational technical assistance would be
required but the most urgent requirement is for farm mechanization extension
now being financed under a bilateral program scheduled which terminated early
in 1977.  Terms of reference would be generally as follows:
(a)  Mechanization Extension Specialist.  To assist in practical training
for farm machinery operation and maintenance, to advise the FAs,
Padi Board, and farmer owners in the selection, application and
maintenance of farm machinery.
(b) Extension Specialist. To advise and assist the Department of Agri-
culture in all aspects of extension organization, operation and
management.
Benefits and Justification
85.       The major benefits and justification for this project would be in
the establishment of an infrastructure for an effective extension service
which will contribute to increasing agricultural production and farmers
incomes on a continuing basis. Although it can be expected that many farmers
will obtain a substantial increase in production and income during the term
of the project, considering the level of agricultural development in the
State, the general benefits will be obtained over a much longer period. The
following examples are indicative of what could be achieved with the major
crops of coconut and padi.
86.       At present, a typical coconut smallholder with (say) 8 acres of
coconuts will produce about 4 tons of copra per year, which will give him
an income of approximately M$1,280 per year, or slightly over M$100 per
month, at current prices. With proper manurial practices, constant weeding,
and proper care, his yield could be increased by some 60%, giving him an
income of a little over M$2,000 per year. If, in addition to this, he could
be persuaded to interplant his coconuts with cocoa, he would eventually be
harvesting around 1,000 lb of dried beans per acre, or a total of 3.5 tons
per year, which would increase his income to a total of about M$8,000 per
year.
87.       With padi farmers, the adoption of new techniques and the use of
the newer, short-term HYVs will roughly double their incomes. If they can
also be persuaded to double crop (dependent on water availability), this
figure can be doubled again.
88.       To discuss the actual number of farmers who may be affected by
this project, and what their increase in income would be, is rather like
discussing the length of a piece of string. However, there is no doubt at
all that this project would benefit a very substantial number of farmers in
Sabah, or that the increase in production could be anything from 25-100%.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Subproject: Sabah Implementation Schedule Extension
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982          Total
DOA Extension
Buildings
Quarters                   10       15       16       12                    53
Office/store                 3        5        3        3                   14
Offices                      1        1        2        1                    5
Propagator                  _1
Total                  14       21       22       16                   73
Vehicles
Land rovers                  6        8      10         5        4          33
Land rover trailers                   5        5                            10
Mini vans                             1                                      1
Lorries                      3                 3                3            9
Boat hulls                          10       10       10                    30
Total                   9       15       19        6        7          56
DVS Extension
Buildings
Extension office                      2                                      2
Central store                                  1                             1
Dispensary/quarters          1        2        5        2                   10
Store                       1        1        1                              3
Total                   2        5        7        2                   16
Vehicles
Land rovers                  2        4        5        3                   14
Lorries                               1        1                             2
Motorcycles                           7        5        4                   16
Speedboats                   3        2       3        2                     8
Total                   3       14       14        9                   40
Additional staff
AO                             1        1        2                             4
AA                             5        5        5        5        5          23
JAA                           20       20       20       20       20          97
Total                  26       26       27       25       25         129



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 1
DOA EXTENSION STAFF - DISTRIBUTION AND ACCOMMODATION
PRESENT SITUATION
No.
No. with    w/out
District                  Grade                        No.   Quarters   Housing
Tawau           Senior Agricultural Officer             1         1
Assistant Land Development
Officer (Acting)                    1         1
Agricultural Assistant                 2          2
Junior Home Demonstrator               2          1        1
Semporna        Assistant Land Development
Officer                             1          1        -
Agricultural Assistant                 1          1        -
Junior Agricultural Assistant          3          1        2
Junior Home Demonstrator               3          2        1
Kunak           Senior Assistant Agricultural
Officer                             1          1
Junior Agricultural Assistant          3          1        2
Assistant Home Demonstrator            2          2        -
Lahad Data      Agricultural Officer                    1         1
Junior Agricultural Assistant
(Special Grade)                     1         1
Junior Agricultural Assistant          1          -        1
Junior Home Demonstrator               6          2        4
Sandakan        Senior Agricultural Officer             1         1        -
Agricultural Officer                   1          -        1
Assistant Land Development Officer    2           1        1
Assistant Agricultural Officer         1          -        1
Agricultural Assistant                 1          1        -
Junior Home Demonstrator               4          4        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator            4          2        2
Kinabatangan    Assistant Land Development Officer    1           1         -
Junior Agricultural Assistant          2          1        1
Assistant Home Demonstrator            5          -        5
Labuk/Sugut     Assistant Land Development Officer    1           1         -
Junior Agricultural Assistant          2          1        1
Junior Home Demonstrator               1          1        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator            4          4        -



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 2
No.
No. with    w/out
District                  Grade                         No.   Quarters   Housing
Kudat           Land Development Officer                 1         1         -
Peninsular     Assistant Land Development Officer    1            1         -
Junior Agricultural Assistant           9         5         4
Junior Home Demonstrator                2          2        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator             4          4
Kota Marudu     Assistant Land Development Officer    1            -         1
Assistant Agricultural Officer          1          -        1
Agricultural Assistant                  2         -         2
Junior Agricultural Assistant           6         4         2
Junior Home Demonstrator                2         1         1
Assistant Home Demonstrator             3          1        2
Kota Belud      Agricultural Officer (Acting)            1         1         -
Assistant Land Development Officer    1            1        -
Senior Agricultural Assistant           1         -         1
Agricultural Assistant                  3          1        2
Junior Agricultural Assistant           7         1         6
Junior Home Demonstrator                3         1         2
Home Demonstrator                       2         -         2
Assistant Home Demonstrator            14          5        9
Ranau           Land Development Officer (Acting)        1         1         -
Assistant Land Development Officer    1            -        1
Assistant Land Development Officer
(Acting)                            2          1         1
Agricultural Assistant                  3          3        -
Junior Agricultural Assistant           6         1         5
Home Demonstrator                       1          1        -
Junior Home Demonstrator                1         1         -
Assistant Home Demonstrator             5          4        1
Kota Kinabalu   Senior Agricultural Officer              1         -         1
(including      Assistant Land Development Officer    2            -         2
Penampang)       Senior Agricultural Assistant           1         -         1
Agricultural Assistant                  5         -         5
Junior Agricultural Assistant           8         1         7
Home Demonstrator                       2         -         2
Junior Home Demonstrator               10         -        10
Assistant Home Demonstrator            11         -        11



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 3
No.
No. with    w/out
District                  Grade                         No.   Quarters   Housing
Paper            Assistant Land Development Officer
(Acting)                             1         1         -
Agricultural Assistant                  4          1         3
Junior Agricultural Assistant          14          3       11
Home Demonstrator                       2          -         2
Junior Home Demonstrator                6          1        5
Assistant Home Demonstrator             9          2         7
Labuan           Assistant Land Development Officer    1            1         -
Agricultural Assistant                  2          1         1
Junior Agricultural Assistant           4          2        2
Junior Home Demonstrator                2          2        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator             3          3         1
Beaufort         Land Development Officer                1          1        -
Assistant Land Development Officer
(Acting)                             1         1         -
Senior Agricultural Assistant           2          -        2
Agricultural Assistant                  1          -         1
Junior Agricultural Assistant           7          3        4
Junior Home Demonstrator                4          2        2
Assistant Home Demonstrator            14          9         5
Kuala Penyu     Assistant Land Development Officer    1             1         -
Agricultural Assistant                  1          1        -
Junior Home Demonstrator                2          2        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator             6          6        -
Sipitang        Agricultural Assistant                   1          1        -
Junior Agricultural Assistant           5          4        -
Junior Home Demonstrator                3          3        3
Assistant Home Demonstrator             6          3        -
Tenom            Agricultural Officer (Acting)           1          1         -
Assistant Land Development Officer    1            1         -
Agricultural Assistant                  1          1        -
Junior Agricultural Assistant           6          6        -
Home Demonstrator                       1          1        -
Junior Home Demonstrator                1          1        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator             4          3         1



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 4
No.
No. with    wlout
District                  Grade                        No.   Quarters   Housing
Keningau        Senior Agricultural Officer             1         1
Agricultural Officer                   1          -        1
Assistant Agricultural Officer         1          1
Assistant Land Development Officer    1           1
Assistant Land Development Officer
(Acting)                            1         1
Agricultural Assistant                 2          -        2
Junior Agricultural Assistant          9          5        4
Junior Home Demonstrator               1          1        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator           10          8        2
Tambunan        Agricultural Assistant                  1         -         1
Junior Home Demonstrator               1          1        -
Assistant Home Demonstrator            5          5
Tuaran          Assistant Aricultural Officer           1         1         -
Senior Agricultural Assistant          1         -         1
Agricultural Assistant                 4          1        3
Agricultural Assistant (Acting)        1          -        1
Junior Agricultural Assistant          4          -        4
Home Demonstrator                      1          -        1
Junior Home Demonstrator               5          1        4
Assistant Home Demonstrator            1          6        4



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 1
FARMERS' ASSOCIATIONS STAFF
No.
District                    Grade                             with         w/out
No.  quarters   housing
Headquaraters   Agricultural Officer (Acting)              1        -          1
Assistant Agricultural Officer            2        1          1
Agricultural Assistant                    3        -          3
Junior Agricultural Assistant             2        -          2
Kinabalu FA      Senior Agricultural Assistant
(Acting)                              1        1
Agricultural Assistant                    1        1         -
Junior Agricultural Assistant             7        6          1
Taun Gusi FA    Assistant Agricultural Officer             1        1          -
Agricultural Assistant                    2        1          1
Junior Agricultural Assistant             3        1          2
Assistant Home Demonstrator               2        -          2
Paper FA         Assistant Land Development Officer
(Acting)                              I        -          1
Agricultural Assistant                    2        -          2
Junior Agricultural Assistant             6       -           6
Home Demonstrator                         1        -          1
Junior Home Demonstrator                  1        -          1
Assistant Home Demonstrator               1        -          1
Kota Marudu      Assistant Agricultural Officer            1        1          -
FA             Agricultural Assistant                    2        1          1
Agricultural Assistant (Acting)           1        1          -
Junior Agricultural Assistant             4        4         -
Tenom FA         Assistant Agricultural Officer            1        1
Agricultural Assistant                    1        1
Junior Agricultural Assistant             3        3
51



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Sabah Farmers' Associations - Financial Summary
(M$ '000)
1970      1971       1972       1973      1974      1975
KINABALU
Assets                   27.6      165.4      170.5     166.1      193.4    175.0
Liabilities
- Current               1.8       79.1       93.8     100.3      121.1    102.9
- Equity
- Share Capital    3.7         4.5       4.9        5.0        5.9      5.9
-  Government      22.1       81.7      71.7       60.7       66.5     66.2
Business Volume          32.6      152.8      209.3     289.3      300.4    221.1
Membership
- Number            516        582       632        702        711      712
- Savings             -       21.1      19.2       16.0        7.2      6.2
- Loans                          -         -          -          -        -
Savings Propensity          -        0.14       0.09      0.0        0.02      0.03
Profit/Loss               4.8        9.5       (4.7)      (3.8       4.7       4.3
TAUN GUSI
Assets                   16.8       162.2    193.9      220.9      202.9    202.4
Liabilities
- Current               8.8        61.3      84.7     101.1      *85.2      90.7
- Equity
- Share Capital    6.0          7.8      8.4       10.4       10.5     10.7
- Government        2.1        95.2    100.7      109.4      107.1    101.0
Business Volume           2.2        85.8    135.4      303.2      267.5      85.5
Membership
- Number            637         748      830        835        837      884
- Savings             -        21.1     13.0       15.5       13.0     13.8
- Loans               -         3.2      8.9        9.0        8.6      8.3
Savings Propensity          -         0.25      0.10      0.05       0.05      0.16
Profit/Loss               0.7        16.2       8.6        5.3      (0.5)    (6.6)
PAPER
Assets                       -      139.3    144.0      156.5      190.7    222.1
Liabilities
- Current                 -        65.6      62.4      70.9      105.7    144.0
- Equity
- Share Capital       -         6.8      9.2       10.6       11.5     12.1
- Government          -        67.2     67.2       68.7       70.8     65.9



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974      1975
Business Volume               -         1.0      77.8      286.7      447.7    202.7
Membership
- Number                 -         480       552         570        621       633
- Savings                -         8.9      10.0       11.0        20.6      33.8
- Loans                  -           -       8.4        9.8       17.5       42.6
Savings Propensity            -           -       0.13       0.04       0.05      0.20
Profit/Loss                   -        (0.9)      2.8        3.0       (0.5)     (9.1)
KOTA MARUDU
Assets                        -           -       7.6      203.5      185.8    199.6
Liabilities
- Current                  -            -       0.8       95.7       98.2      94.9
- Equity
- Share Capital        -           -       4.1        7.3        7.7        7.9
- Government           -           -       2.9       95.4       99.2      96.8
Business Volume               -           -       3.0      172.8      302.7    275.9
Membership
- Number               -           -       5.8        823        855       890
- Savings              -           -         -       37.2       24.8      20.2
- Loans                            -         -        0.22       0.08      0.07
Savings Propensity            -           -         -          -          -
Profit/Loss                   -           -      (0.1)       3.8      (20.3)      4.8
BERUSAHA TENOM
Assets                        -           -         -       54.0      107.4    138.4
Liabilities
- Current                  -            -         -       27.8       84.4    113.8
- Equity
- Share Capital        -           -         -        6.2        7.6       7.7
- Government           -           -         -       20.0       15.4      16.8
Business Volume               -           -         -      112.3      273.2    228.4
MembershiD
- Number               -           -         -        691        778        780
- Savings              -           -         -        3.3        3.6       4.4
- Loans                -           -         -        5.7        5.2      10.1
Savings Propensity            -           -         -        0.03       0.01      0.02
Profit/Loss                   -           -         -        4.5       (3.5)      2.5
NOTES:
(1) Shlare capital represents farmer equity, and is the total number of FA
sh.ares at M$45,000/share purchased by the member farmers.
(2)  Governmlent equity is the annual government subsidy granted to the FAS.
(3) Savings propensity = member savings/business volume.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 1
DISTRIBUTION OF NEW STAFF RECRUITED DURING LONG PERIOD
AOs
1st year           1 for Kota Kinabalu (Home Economics)
2nd year           1 for A.O., Kota Marudu
3rd year           1 for A.O. Semporna
1 for A.O. in-charge Rural Training
4
AAs
1st year           Penampang       -  2
Tauran         -  2
Beaufort       -  1
2nd year          Beaufort        -  1
Tenom           -  2
Tambunan        -  1
3rd year          Tambunan        -  1
Lahad Datu     -  2
Semporna       -  2
4th year          Kadat           -  1
Leningau        -  1
Labuk           -  1
Tawau          -  2
5th year           Kudat          -  1
Labuk           -  2
inabatangan    -  2
25
JAAs
1st year           Penampang       -  6
Tuaran          -  6
Beaufort       -  6
Nabawan        -  2



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 2
2nd year           Lamag           -  3
Sipitang        -  2
Nabawan         -  4
Kuala Penyu    -  2
Telupid         -  3
Kota Narudu    -  2
Paper           -  3
Beaufort        -  1
3rd year           Tembunan        -  6
Semporna        -  6
Lahad Datu      -  6
Bengkoka        -  2
4th year           Pitas           -  2
Banggi          -  2
Kundasang       -  3
Telupid         -  1
Sandakan        -  4
Tawau           -  2
Kunak           -  3
Segama          -  1
Ranau           -  2
5th year           Labuk           -  6
Kinabatangan   -  6
Kudat           -  6
Kundasang       -  1
Sepulot         -  1
100



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION, TRAINING, AND SEEDS PROJECT ORGANIZATION
SABAH MINISTRYl
|  OF AGRICUATURE    l
DR 1(AINA  >1                DEPT. OF  X                  DEPT. OF             DET OF7                                 ikBE FUN
DEPT.                     FISHEICES
DIRECTOR
OF AGRICULTURE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF
|AGRICUL1TIRE  
~~~~~~~~~~~~|ASSISTANT  DIRECTOR                         A|                IE
EXTENSIONJ
EXTENSION BRANCH  1
(SEE CHART 2.3)    J
World Bank-16924



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SABAH
ORGANIZATION CHART
L__0_or of A_ -1e
Deoin Dir.cpdr at Ag.    l
Renai-h                                                            end                                                   dr                                                                              Eateiisian
Personnel                        qtrr                   Evalautlion
A.ig-dnt                                                          Senior                            Adnnini-               Aimtani                                                                       Asumant
Dlr-m                                                             Agricolatral                       itation               Directat                                                                      Dir-ctor
I Rarclh OjI                                                                                      _Devel pient l                                                                                         t ntenslo)
AIic.           Aqi                                                                                                                                                      a .  I-
R--h  I -d                       pl-t            ~~~~~~~V-ca-      T-an-           On--ea           Stl               a t           Ealaia            Feast--         Ad.inii-          Whar-            Farme            Trein            H.-m            Snicn
L,b,.,y  (1- -    ~     ti-al            to               Tr-nig          Matine           -elaia                           bility          utrtion           ati.e            Assoc-                            Ecaw.rnn
'm-             S.c ,           SCne                                                 nce           Re                 . _...poelieg  Studies  ..d                      loti-ntami.
(Ecanonni-      Easo-Cnr2S                                                                                   s
Ge'neral       Accownt
Ottice         Senro             Sen
World  al-d2



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF EXTENSION BRANCH SABAH
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR EXTENSION
STATE
SAO                      SAO                            SAO                                   SAO
SANDAKAN                  TAWAU                         INTERIOR                              WEST COAST
RESIDENCY          I|I                                                                                                                                     I
AO         LAf lK   AO          AO       SAAO      LOG       AO                  KK!       LOO                  AO        LO         AO      A
SANDAKAN   SUGUT   SEMPORNA    LAHAD    TAWAU   BEAUFORT  T-NOM   KENIGAU   PAPAR          RANAU    TUAAN    KOTA         JUOAT      F A     INFOR
DATU                                                                           FEUD                          MATION
DISTRIICT     SAAo
AAO(2)    AtDO      AAO                ALDO      ALDOG2)   ALOG    ALDO(2)  ALDO(5)   ALDO(2)    A            AAO       ALo       AA (5)    AL DO
I        I      I  l                 AAO(2)             2    1    AAO        AAO    A1SAAA                            AAO11
I        I         I         II                   I        I         I        ASOI  I               I                   I
JAA GO                       JAA(SG)   JAA(SG)                        JAA(SG    J J                 JAA(SG)I
JAA(12)   JAA (3)   JAA(31    JAA3      JAA(1)   JAA(18)   JAA(6)    JAA(12)   JAA(151    JAA(9)   JAA(8)    JAA(18)   JAA(25)   JAA(10)   JAA(8)
World Bank- 16926



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION SERVICE SABAH
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR EXTENSION
AGRICULTUtRAL OFFICER INFORMATION                            Clerical Assistant
AUDIO                                EDISUAL  & SUBJECR                    PUBLICATIONS SECTION                         P URAL                                  TRANSLATOR
SECTION                             MATTER                                                                             BROADCASTING
Subject                      Preparation &              Machine                Distribution
Matterc_                     Layout                     Operator              & Dispatch
Projected        Non-projected        Publicity                 Artist             Compositor                                           Broadcasting
Aids  Aids.Extension                                       General
Assistant                                                            RHome Economics
A rt ist                                                              Broadcasts
Dark Room                        Offset
Technician                       Printers
Guilletine                      Machine
Operator                        Operators                                                  World Bank-16928



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF F.A. WITHIN THE EXTENSION BRANCH
SABAH
District                                                                     f    Assistant Director Extension      l
Agricultural Officer                \State Suprvisor F A
Assistant Agricultural Officer
Administration, Ex'tensionandAgricultural Officer
other Duties                                                 \Farmers Associa tion
Farmers Association
Assistant Agricultural Officer
/  i           (General Manager)
Administration and Other Duties                    Home Economics                    f               Extension                                   Agricultural Assistant
Agricultural Assistant                     Home Demonstrator                   [        Agricultural Assistant                                (Section Chiefs)
Junior Agricultural AssistantsJunior
Junior Agricultural Assistant               Assistant Home Demonstrator                   Extension Service Outside                    (Ex tension within F  A Organic Atrea)
World Bank-17601



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERINARY SERVICES
SABAH
DIRECTOR
I
VETERINARY SERVICES
SvO                                                                  SVO
VETERINARY SERVICES                                            LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION & RESEARCH
_~~~~~~
I13~~~~~VO                W C(S) 7~~~~~~IO           Ineror                              Snaa  VO   uaratn
Kudat    Rana       Tuaran    K. Belud    K.K./Papar    Papa,    Labuan    Ke gar    Beaufort    TaSu    Lahad Datu/         Station
SAVO))                                                                             SAVOI I    I l                  SAVOII)
AVO       AVO        AVO       AVO        AVO       AVO        AVO                  AVO                            AVO
AAI 0                                                                                         AAHO      AAiO       AAHO
AHA/2)    AHA        AIA        AHA       AHA(4)     AHA       AHA        AHAI3)    AHA(2)    AHA(2)     AHA        AHAI4)    AHA
I         I
AA        AA
(sup)     (Sup)
SG)JAAIS
JA11A121   JAHA      JAHA      JAHA(2)   JAHA(41    JAHA       JAHA    JAHA(31    JAHA       JAHA (2)   JAHA      JAHA(41    JAHA
World Bank-16930



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Sarawak - Extension Component
Introduction
1.        In Sarawak, the extension component project concept closely parallels
that of the mainland project. In designing the Sarawak subproject, considera-
tion was given to the state's large geographic area and severe communications
problems. Use of the state's very limited manpower resources in agriculture
must be maximized while taking into account the needs of the more depressed
areas of the state. Accordingly, the state's Department of Agriculture (DOA),
working closely with field staff, identified priority areas for concentrating
extension efforts. These priority areas reflect both the potential for growth,
incidence of poverty, and also provide a representative cross section of the
state's major farming types.
2.        Measures to reinforce the extension services would be taken to ensure
better communication between extension agents and farmers, and ensure greater
staff mobility.
3.        The severe staff constraint calls for special efforts to generate
the required output of front-line extension staff by providing preservice
training facilities. The utilization of such facilities would be maximized by
merging them with facilities to provide in-service training for staff, so that
new technology can be taught on a continuing basis; the project proposes to do
this (see Annex 5).
4.        The overall project proposal includes a small component specifically
designed to tackle soil conservation, seeds and in-service training problems as
an integral part of extension services on the mainland and in Sarawak. The
build-up of state extension services necessitates a corresponding strengthening
of the technical support services to effectively backstop all extension efforts.
Background
5.        Sarawak, lying between latitudes 0050' and 50 north and longitudes
109030' and 115040' east, covers a total land area of 47,000 sq miles (almost
40% of Malaysia).
6.        Sarawak has three roughly parallel geographic zones - coastal, midland,
and hilly interior - which are traversed by numerous wide, meandering rivers.
Four major soil types are distinguishable: hilly, red-yellow podzolic; rolling,
red-yellow and grey white podzolic; past and recent alluvial; and swamps, saline
grey and grey-white podzolic. Sarawak experiences heavy rainfall of 120-160"
per year, high humidity, and mean temperatures of 85 degrees Fahrenheit. From
October to March, the northeast monsoon brings the "landas" season of heavy
rains, strong winds and stormy seas.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
7.        The nature of the terrain and soil types imposes severe limitations
on large-scale agricultural development. Cultivable land is estimated at
less than 30% of the total land area and excludes the poorly-drained coastal
swamps and the infertile soils of the highlands. There are about 160,000
farm families on an estimated 6.7 million acres (from the 1966 planimetric
measurement). Some sources estimated that about 20% of the state's land area
is farmed under shifting cultivation, which has resulted in a serious reduction
in soil fertility, especially since population pressure decreased the fallow
period to 5-6 years instead of the traditional rotation of 12 years; a major
effort of land development schemes and extension is aimed at-encouraging shift-
ing cultivators to adopt sedentary agriculture. The problems of agricultural
development are also compounded by a complex land tenure system based on the
1958 Land Code which divides land into the following types: Mixed Zone
(about 10%), Native Area (5%), Native Customary (over 20%), Reserved (State),
and Interior Area land (not under title).
8.        Traditional crops in Sarawak are rubber ("kampong" type), pepper,
coconuts, padi and sago. Details of the area farmed, production and exports
are given in the following table. Existing mean yields are estimated at:
13,000 lb of green berries/acre for pepper; 340 lb sheet rubber/acre for
rubber; 2-3 pikuls copra-equivalent/acre for coconut; 1,515 lb/acre for wet
padi; 696 lb/acre for hill padi; and 1.2 tons flour/acre for sago. Much
higher yields could be achieved with improved farming practices. Prices
differ greatly between regions and in most cases comparisons are meaningless
due to the lack of standardized grading criteria. Credit, supply and marketing
services are most commonly provided to the rural population by the rural
shopkeepers (retailers), family enterprises which undertake the triple
functions of marketing, merchandising and money-lending. The project would
provide six months of technical assistance to review credit systems and
requirements with the objective of establishing regular institutionalized
credit.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Sarawak - Area, Production and Exports of
Principal Agricultural Crops, 1974
Associated                 Estimated    Estimated            Exports
Crop     localities found               acreage    prodn.(tons)   tons        M$'000
Rubber       Undulating land,
midland and inland zones    476,665          n.a.        32,190    50,428
Pepper )
(white) )   Undulating, in                  n.a.          n.a.       12,855    56,040
)   midland zones
Pepper )
(black) )                                   n.a.          n.a.       15,622    46,877
Sago flour  Sago palms on peat
(freshwater) swamp             n.a.          n.a.       27,409      7,102
Coconut
products    Coastal, sandy soils            121,573      15,408/a      4,076/b   7,942
Padi         Lowlying, swampy and
(swamp)     riverine zones                 127,588      61,115         0.01          14
Padi         Hilly zones                   143,288      28,191             -
(hill)
N.B.  Sarawak is a net importer of rice.  In 1974 imports totaled 83,137 tons,
valued at M$66,781,252.
/a Copra.
/b Copra and copra cake and coconut oil.
Source: DOA, Sarawak, Agricultural Statistics of Sarawak, 1974, P. 7-8.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        .rop combinations and incomes vary between the five major farm types
associated th the geographical regions of Sarawak. Poverty groups exist among
all farm types, usually ir remote areas which depend heavily on traditional
subsistence agriculture and are thus subject to the vagaries of weather, limited
pest control, limited technology, and lack of alternative incomes. The wide
distribution of poverty areas necessitates an agricultural extension program
which would eventually have statewide impact.
10.       Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, employing about 80% of
the economically active population and contributing about 17% to GDP. In 1974,
primary exports were valued at M$1,385.9 million and imports at M$1,005.3 mil-
lion. Agricultural exports amount to 12.1% (1974 statistics) of principal
exports; important nonagricultural exports are petroleum and its products
(68.8%), and timber (12%).  The main agricultural exports are pepper, rubber,
coconut products and sago flour; statistics for 1974 show that pepper
exports were valued at M$102.9 million compared to M$50.4 million for rubber,
M$7.9 million for coconut products and M$7.1 million for sago flour.
11.       The population of one million is concentrated in the coastal and
riverine zones. Average population density in Sarawak is 20 persons per sq
mile, the lowest in Malaysia and one quarter of the national average. Major
ethnic groups are Iban (31%), Chinese (30%), Malay (19%), Land Dayak (9%),
Melanau (5%) and other indigenous groups (6%).
Existing Organization of the Sarawak Department of Agriculture
12.       The Ministry of Agriculture is divided into two departments, the
largest of these being the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The organization
of the DOA is shown in Chart WB16936. It is headed by the State Director of
Agriculture who is assisted by his Deputy and the heads of the various
branches. There are five main branches of the DOA (Sarawak), the first
four headed by Assistant Directors (Field Branch, Research Branch, Education
Branch, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Branch) and the fifth by the Senior
Fisheries Officer (Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Branch).
13.       Most of the DOA's extension services are handled by the Field and
Education Branches (Chart WB16937); other agricultural advisory services are
centered on the land development schemes, agricultural subsidy schemes, and
the home economics program. The livestock schemes are supervised by the
Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Branch and the inland fisheries schemes by
the Inland Fisheries Branch.
14.       The DOA has offices and staff in all 7 administrative divisions and
26 districts of the state.
15.       District Organization.  Each district is divided into subdistricts and
these are further divided into smaller agricultural administrative areas (Chart
lB 16938). The Assistant Agricultural Officer (AAO) is in charge of the district
HQ and under him are the subject matter specialists (AA-Padi, AA-Veterinary, AA-
Pepper, AA-Fisheries etc.) who assist the area staff on specific technical matters.
Each subdistrict is supervised by an AA who has a number of Junior Agricultural
Assistants (JAAs), which are the same as ATs, and Home Demonstrators (HDs) who



ANNEX 3
Page 5
do the grass-roots extension work. The work of the area JAAs is mainly concerned
with implementing the subsidy schemes and providing extension advisory services
to farmers. In addition, they are responsible for selecting farmers from their
area for training at the Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs). Based at the
district HQ and subdistrict HQ are at least two HDs who have a fixed home
economics extension piogram for the subdistrict areas.
16.       The district and area staff, mainly JAAs and HDs, are in direct
contact with farmers at the grass-roots level. District organizL fion of the DOA
is shown below:
District Organization
AAO in charge of district
AA-Veterinary         AA-Padi
AA-Fisheries          AA-Pepper, etc.
AA i/c                        AA i/c                    AA i/c
Subdistrict                   Subdistrict               Subdistrict
Area    Area    Area              Area   Area          Area    Area    Area
JAA     JAA      JAA              JAA    JAA           JAA      JAA     JAA
HD_  _    HD     HD               HD      HD           HD      HD       HD
Policies and Objectives of the DOA
±7.       The agricultural development policy of the Sarawak DOA is committed to
development of the poverty and smallholder sectors. This policy in general aims
to improve the farm income of the smallholders through (a) improving their
agricultural practices, (b) introducing new technology, and (c) diversifying
their agricultural enterprises.
18.       At present the field services aimed at improving farmers' incomes tend
to concentrate heavily on the implementation of the various development and
subsidy schemes together with emphasis on agricultural extension. The overall
objectives of these development schemes are:
(a) to inject modern inputs, techniques and ideas with
the aim of raising productivity;
(b) to provide investment capital to farmers for them
to purchase modern inputs;
(c) to absorb part of the investment risk involved with
agricultural enterprises;
(d) to increase farmers' incomes.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
19.       The present agricultural service does not effectively relay improved
farming techniques to the farmers for a number of reasons: firstly, much of
the field workers' time is taken up by the administration of subsidy schemes
and enforcement of rules and regulations. Secondly, as the subsidy scheme
component is not separated from extension work, it is often doubtful whether
farmers adopt new practices out of conviction or just for material gain.
Lastly, being deeply involved in the implementation of these schemes, field
staff, who generally lack training in agricultural extension, tend to be
oriented more towards the administration of these schemes than the provision
of agricultural extension services; however, it is also recognized that a
large measure of the so-called subsidy program is in fact an essential
demonstration component of the extension function. The achievements of the
extension and subsidy programs would be reviewed as part of the proposed
Extension and Subsidy Monitoring Program that would be implemented under the
project.
20.       The DOA implemented various subsidy schemes under the Second
Malaysia Plan (SMP); new Proposals for the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP), 1976-80,
are summarized in Annex 3, Table 2.
21.       The DOA has other programs covering:  Farmer Training (,aith a
throughput of 750 rural youths per year); Farmers' Organizations (7 have been
established and 10 more are planned for the TMP); Youth Settlement (one
scheme under the SMP, another planned for the TMP); Farm Mechanization
(renamed Farm Modernization for the TMP) under which 247 units of tractors
and associated equipment would be made available for hire to farmers at
subsidized rates; and expansion of Agricultural Research. The DOA alone
spent M$79.67 million or 93% of its total allocation under the SMP; an
ambitious expansion program envisages the need for M$287.7 million in the DAP
period.
The Project
22.       In view of the weaknesses of the present agricultural services
provided by the Sarawak DOA, the project would reorient the existing extension
service to include more agricultural teaching and demonstration services
focused on selected regions. The change in emphasis from a subsidy scheme/
agricultural service to expanded education-oriented extension services would
generally involve (a) improving the quality and increasing the number of
extension staff; (b) introducing new, effective extension services at all
levels of the DOA without disrupting the present departmental structure; (c)
reorienting the functions of the field level organization (i.e. the district
and area agricultural centers) giving information, education, demonstration
and consultation, and (d) increasing the productivity and incomes of farmers.
particularly the smaller, more depressed and more remote farmers.
23.       These objectives would be achieved by:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(a)  reorganizing relevant personnel in DOA into the State Extension
LJiaison Unit (SELU) which would become the operational arm of the
Departmental Steering Committee (DSC) dealing with extension matters;
(b)  establishing an Agricultural Institute (AI) with a capacity for 250
trainees and an annual output of 125 to provide two-year preservice
training for newly recruited front-line extension staff. The AI
will be developed in conjunction with the establishment of an RETDC
(see Annex 5);
(c) establishing a Regional Extension Training and Development Center
(RETDC) where new technology can be taught to extension and agricul-
tural service workers on a continuing basis;
(d) developing a network of 10 Extension Subcenters (ESCs) with 20 "area
forward bases" (Vol. II: Project File, Part I, Section A.3.1) to
establish better communications between extension workers and farmers;
(e) providing local and foreign training fellowships for extension workers
at all levels of the DOA;
(f) increasing the numbers of field level extension workers and thus
substantially improving the ratio of extension workers to farmers;
(g) establishment of an extension communications media unit;
(h)  expand seed production facilities to make improved seeds available
to most farmers.
Project Components
24.       The components would be incorporated into the overall structure of the
Sarawak DOA with minimal disruption of the organization. At the same time the
system is designed to permit continuous evaluation and change as the two-way
flow of action and feedback becomes operative. Such built-in flexibility will
permit the DOA and its components to change policies and modify programs in
response to changing needs. With clear-sighted policy and corresponding commit-
ment of decision-makers, DOA would be able to initiate development of a self-
reinforcing growth system, which gains its strength from its built-in mechanisms
for trial, implementation, evaluation and adaptation. The project would achieve
its objectives through the provision of the following:
(a) Staff. The project would provide a total of 284 staff. By components
this would include 131 for ESCs, 74 for the AI/RETDC, 8 for soil
conservation extension, 12 for extension communication and 6 subject
matter spe-ialists.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
(b) Civil Works. In order to place staff in the Districts and areas
wlhere they will have close and regular contact with the farmers,
the project would provide office space, staff quarters, storage
facilities and boat sheds at each of the 10 ESCs and 20 AFBs
(Annex 6, Section A).
(c) Equipment. The staff would also be supported by the provision of
transport - four-wheel drive vehicles, boats and motors; laboratory
equipment and extension equipment such as extension kits, plant
protection equipment and visual aid equipment (Annex 6, Section A).
(d)  Fellowships.   The project would provide 54 man-years of fellow-
ships to upgrade the knowledge and operational ability of the staff.
These fellowships would be utilized for short-term study tours and
specialist degree and postgraduate degree training.
(e) Technical Assistance. The project would provide 2.75 man-years of
technical assistance; 2 years for extension organization and opera-
tion and communications, 6 months for a credit specialist to review
the agricultural credit system and credit requirements, and 3 months
for seeds in Sarawak (refer to Annex 6, Part II, Section D, Table Dl).
The services of a credit specialist would be required early in the
project to evaluate existing credit facilities and make recommenda-
tions on how to regularize, strengthen and expand credit facilities,
both in the public and private sectors. He would pay particular
attention to the availability of adequate credit required for
smallholder agriculture development. His report would be submitted
to the Bank for review and comment.
Sarawak Extension Component
25.       The project would assist GOM with financing the foreign exchange
components (US$2.82 million), of which US$1.20 million is civil works,
US$0.27 million is vehicles and equipment, and US$0.42 million is technical
assistance and fellowships. Physical contingencies are US$0.16 million, and
price contingencies are US$0.77 million. All capital costs (including
additional extension staff for the purposes of the project) would be borne by
the Federal Government. Extension (other than in-service training) is a
state function; thus operating costs would be borne by the state. Details are
contained iD Annex 6, Section A and in the supplementary report No. 1555a-s-MA.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Sarawak Extension Cost Summary
Malaysian $ million              US $ million            %
Foreign                       Foreign           Foreign
Local  exchange   Total       Local  exchange  Total  exchange
Civil works                 3.50    3.02       6.52       1.39    1.20      2.59     46
Vehicles                    -       0.19       0.19        -      0.08      0.08    100
Equipment                  0.13    0.49        0.62       0.05    0.19      0.24      80
Staff - regular            3.41      -         3.41       1.35     -        1.35
subject matter
specialists      0.29     -         0.29       0.12     -        0.12
Operating costs /a          0.91     -         0.91       0.36     -        0.36
Fellowships                 -       0.74       0.74        -      0.29      0.29    100
Technical assistance       0.08    0.41        0.49       0.02    0.17      0.19      85
Total Base Costs /b    8.32    4.85        13.17      3.29    1.93       5.22     37
Contingencies
Physical                   0.38    0.40        0.78      0.15    0.16       0.31
Price                       3.36    1.87       5.23       1.34    0.73      2.07
Total                   3.74    2.27        6.01      1.49    0.89       2.38     38
Total Costs                  12.06    7.12      19.18       4.78    2.82      7.60      37
/a  Includes Extension Operating Costs (see Annex 6).
/b Includes elements financed by US$1.31 million allocated for extension under
Loan 1115-MA; US$425,000 for civil works and US$885,000 for equipment.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Proposed Reorganization for Extension in the DOA
26.       State Level.  In order to strengthen the agricultural extension
service of the Sarawak DOA, the information delivery function (extension) would
be incorporated into the existing Field and Education Branches; these would be
renamed the Field Extension Branch and the Extension Education and Training
Branch respectively. Their proposed organizational structuse is shown in Chart
WBI7101.
27.       The Agricultural Institute (AI) would be involved in preservice
training of front-line extension workers and the RETDC in providing refresher
training courses; both would come under the existing Education Branch, while the
ESC dealing with farmers at the grass-roots level would be under the existing
Field Branch.
28.       The Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Branch and the Inland Fisheries
and Aquaculture Branch which deal more with technical matters would provide
support services to these two extension branches.
Organization of ESC and its Area Forward Bases
29.       As shown in Chart WB16936 and WB16938, the ESC would be an extension
component of the district HQ. With the addition of the ESC to the district HQ,
its functions would be: overall administration; extension (which includes its
services to the Farmers' Organizations); planning & evaluation, subsidy scheme
implementation, home economics extension, rural youth services, farmer training,
and veterinary services.
30.       In view of the size of the districts, the scattered nature of agricul-
ture, and the difficulties of communications in Sarawak, an ESC would have
"area extension forward bases" (AFBs). Each AFB would be in a location where
farmers and extension workers could conveniently contact one another. An AFB
would also be located at the district or subdistrict HQ to service nearby areas.
One AFB would serve one or more areas of the district depending on the size of
the areas, the ease of communications and the distribution of the villages.
31.       There are 26 districts in Sarawak, but initially only 10 ESCs would be
established with 20 AFBs, or 2 per district. The location of these ESCs and
AFBs together with the extension coverage ratios they would achieve (by number
of households, villages, population) are shown in the supplementary report.
32.       The AFB at Nanga Kesit would represent a typical forward base area.
The area can only be reached by river boat and is located about one hour upstream
from Ridan; the nearest point accessible by road. The area consists of 25
longhouses with 320 families within a three hour range by riverboat. Existing
facilities consist of a primary school and clinic. An AFB would be established
here to be staffed by one AA Extension, one JAA and one HD.
State Extension Liaison Unit
33.       The State Extension Liaison Unit (SELU) would be a unit of the Sarawak
DOA comprises the Director, Deputy Director and the Assistant Directors with



ANNEX 3
Page 11
connections to the federal ELU and other technical branches of the DOA. The
SELU would collate and present information received from these and other
sources in a form which can be used by extension agents. At the same time,
the SELU would also transmit back to these various branches information on
field problems faced by extension workers so that technical solutions could
be found.
34.       The SELU would be the agricultural extension unit of the Departmental
Steering Committee (DSC). The various sections of the DOA concerned with
communications and information, and planning and evaluation (handled by the
Planning Division) would extend their technical services to SELU.
35.       The SELU would have such functional units as (a) Communications,
(b) Project Planning and Studies, (c) Data Processing, and (d) Subject
Matter. The Assistant Director (Extension, Education and Training) would be
responsible for the activities of these functional units and would be a
member of the DSC. Units (a) and (d) above would be the responsibility of
the Communications and Information section of the Extension Education and
Training Branch, while units (b) and (c) would be the responsibility of the
DOA's Planning Division.
Technology Base for Extension
36.       The project would develop a close working relationship with the
Malaysian Agricultural Research Institute as the base for new technology
and backstopping support for the solution to local and seasonal crop problems.
The Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) established under Loan 1115-MA, as an
integral part of the Federal Extension Branch of the DOA would be the main
channel of communication between MARDI, DOA and the SDOAs. An additional
link, the State Agriculture Research Development Committee (SARDEC) has
already been established in some states to bring local problems to the
attention of MARDI.
37.       The Department of Agriculture and the mission recognize that the
extension project, in the short term (the next 5-10 years) would not be
constrained by the regular and continuing availability of new technology
emanating from MARDI and the Research Centers in Sabah and Sarawak.
38.       A tremendous gap still exists between known technology and that
being applied by the majority of farmers in Malaysia; therefore this project
would aim at narrowing the production gap primarily through the dissemination
of known and proven technology. New technology would replace and supplement
known technology as it becomes available.
The Agricultural Research Center (ARC) at Semongok and its Extension Output
39.       The project would link ARC's research efforts to the SELU, and
research officers from the Semongok ARC would then transmit new ideas and
discoveries to the extension workers. Research officers would also lecture
in certain specialized subjects at the AI and RETDC.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
40.       Discussions were hald with the Sarawak DOA and their agreement
was obtained on the necessity of these research-oriented extension officers.
These would be added incrementally during the project implementation period.
Extension officers proposed would be specialists in the following - which are
not necessarily in order of priority: crop protection, pepper agronomy,
vegetable horticulture, soils, fresh water fisheries and livestock.
Soil Conservation
41.       The Extension component of the project in Sarawak would establish
a soil conservation section jointly with the Soils Branch. A pilot soil
conservation scheme would be implemented in Serian District among pepper
growers where soil erosion is particularly severe because pepper is grown on
steep land without any concern about soil erosion. Soil conservation in
Sarawak would initially be strengthened by exposing extension and subject
matter officers to known techniques being applied in the region; fellowships
for study tours would provide needed information. Specific programs and
projects would be formulated as knowledge and expertise are developed; thus
soil conservation would primarily be concerned with training in the early
stages of the project.
Home Economics
42.       The Extension Service already has a fairly competent and well
organized home economics unit and provision is made to recruit 4 Home Economics
Supervisors and 26 Home Demonstrators under the project. Most important of
all, the project would provide the equipment and facilities to enable the
home economics unit to become more effective. The main activities of the
home economics unit are nutrition, child care, family planning, sanitation
and hygiene.
The Agricultural Institute (AI) and the Regional Extension Training ancd
Development Center (RETDC)
43.       The project proposes the establishment of an AI and an RETDC in
close proximity to the ARC at Semangok (see Annex 5 for details).
44.       Syllabuses for the two-year AI courses would be compiled for the
approval of the Departmental Education Board, subject to review as and when
necessary. Practical work would be done on the AI farm, and also at the
research farms and agricultural station nearby. The practical side of
learning would be stressed since extension agents are severely limited if
they cannot demonstrate to the farmers what they are trying to teach. At the
Al provision would be made to give students ample opportunity for practical
work. They would be split into groups of 5-6 for easy supervision and
assigned practical work related to their subjects, e.g. laying down nurseries,
bud grafting, etc. Students would also be expected to work in nearby agricul-
tural establishments - brackish water stations, pig and poultry farms, and
c'v.ni in research farms for such work as harvesting cocoa, etc. Another
effective form of practical work would be student cooperative farms. Each
group would be required to undertake a farm project related to their discipline
of studies, e.g. vegetable growing, poultry keeping, etc. Full records would



ANNEX 3
Page 13
be kept of time spent, inputs and outputs. Profits would go to the students.
This arrangement for practical work is perhaps the best, since it gives
students the opportunity to gain experience in managing farm businesses by
themselves.
The Regional Extension Training and Development Center (RETDC)
45.       The AI is intended to provide a preservice training program.  The
RETDC is to be a center for in-service training.
46.       The first RETDC would be connected to the AI.  This sharing of
facilities would save on capital investment, overheads and operating costs,
and would allow fuller utilization of teaching manpower and facilities. The
University Pertanian, the ARC, the Agricultural Station and the ATC are all
near this site.
47.       The RETDC would be a center where basic agricultural information
and new research findings would be passed on to the extension workers and
thence to the farmers. It would be an arm of the SELU with the functions of
(a) providing the extension workers with refresher courses on extension
methodology, and updating them on the latest research in crop husbandry, home
technology, soil conservation, farm mechanization, fisheries, animal husbandry
or farm management, to be supported by information on extension methods,
communications, journalism, data processing, documentation, rural sociology,
planning and evaluation methods; (b) project planning and evaluation; and (c)
improving communications between farmers and extension workers.
Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs)
48.       The ten ATCs in Sarawak provide two levels of training for young
farmers: seven "Junior" ATCs would take in young men and women with primary
school education and the other two ATCs would take young men with secondary
school education. The location of these centers is shown below:
Admission Requirement
Location of                  Primary      Secondary
ATCs                      education   education
First Division                   Semongok
Sq. Pinang
Second Division                  Temudok
Ridan
Third Division                   Oya Road
Fourth Division                      -         Kabuloh
Fifth Division                   Kubong           -
Sixth Division                       -         Jalau
Seventh Division                 Seputin



ANNEX 3
Page 14
Extension Organization and Staffing Functions
49.       In the 10 selected districts the SAAU's job would be to coordinate
the activities of all the staff in his district. In additior, he would be
involved in planning, evaluation and general administration. Being the
officer in charge of the district, he would also be responsible for reporting
to his divisional HQ on the progress and problems of agricultural development
in his district, and receiving information and implementing instructions from
his divisional HQ.
50.       The district AAO (Extension) would mainly be responsible for
agricultural extension. He would also be involved in agricultural development
planning and evaluation as part of the overall extension effort in the
district. From time to time, he would go to the AFBs to give advice to
front-line extension workers and at the same time gather firsthand information
on problems in the field concerning extension. The field problems would
influence planning activities at the district HQ level.
51.       The district Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would give technical
advice to area extension workers and also front-line extension staff in the
Farmers' Organization, assisting them in planning and evaluation work for
their areas, and participating in agricultural development planning. The
district SMSs would be assisted by the divisional SMSs (VO, FO, AAO (Padi),
HES) who would visit them regularly.
52.       The SAAO, AAO (Extension) and the SMSs would work as a team to draw
up a district development plan, based on the feedback of farmers' needs from
the AFBs. District HQ staff would visit the areas of the district from time
to time to assist area staff and study field problems.
53.       In each AFB there would be one or more AAs (Extension), area JAAs
and area HDs. The number of front-line extension workers would depend on the
number of areas the AFB serves. In some cases, one AA (Extension) could
supervise two areas because of the small number of villages and better
communications in the areas; in others, one AA (Extension) could supervise
only one area.
54.       In the AFBs, the AA (Extension), the area JAA, and the area HD
should work together as a team to fix priority extension objectives and plan
the extension program for the area in line with the district HQ's development
plan. Based on their extension program they would 'qo work out the best
possible monthly travel schedule to ensure that the transport available is
efficiently used. The AAO (Extension) would assist them in working out
priorities for their -reas during the regular staff meetings at the District
HQ and in evaluating the success of their extension programs.
55.       In general, the activities of the extension team in the village
would be:
(a) helping f8rmeLs to identify their problems and needs and offering
suggestions and advice on farm management and home economics;



ANNEX 3
Page 15
(b) introducing new technologies and reinforcing technologies
already familiar to the farmers;
(c) securing participation and involvement of local leaders
in planning and implementing programs of change for farm
families;
(d) providing learning opportunities and farming experience
for adult farmers and rural youths;
(e) advising farmers on sources of farming inputs, credit and
marketing facilities;
(f) assisting rural committees in the planning and implementa-
tion of agricultural projects, and organizing farmers and
rural people in community development and self-help projects;
and
(g) planning, implementing and evaluating the extension
education programs for adult farmers, homemakers and
youths in rural areas.
56.       The AA (Extension) would primarily do extension work.  Although the
area JAA would be engaged on the implementation of subsidy schemes part of
the time, he would primarily be doing agricultural extension work. However,
to prevent duplication of work at the village level, their duties are divided
as follows:
Functions of the AA (Extension)
(a) Coordinating the provision of a package program, e.g.
improved techniques of padi production from land preparation
to harvesting.
(b) Working with and motivating groups of farmers in the villages
to adopt improved technology and practices, and suitable new
crops.
(c) Collecting base-line (and benchmark) socio-economic information
in the area.
kd) Holding meetings with farmers to give demonstrations and
discuss farm problems and needs.
(e) Identifying potential farmer leaders and recommending them
for traini-g at the ATCs.
(f) Organizing farm tours and demonstrating success achieved.
The AA (Extension) should work with the JAA (Area) whenever possible.



ANNEX 3
Page 16
Functions of the JAA (Area)
(a) Administration of agricultural subsidy schemes.
(b) Giving demonstrations and instructions to reinforce topics
dealt with by the AA (Extension) whenever modern inputs
(e.g. pesticides, weedicides, fertilizers, seeds, etc.)
provided under the subsidy schemes are being allocated to
selected farmers.
(c) Assisting the AA (Extension) in collecting information on
the farmers' problems.
Extension 1,ethodology
57.       Based on a field survey of actual needs and accessibility, the average
cc verage by one AA (Extension) would be 17 (536 i- 32 AA Extension) villages
consisting of 300 to 400 farm families. Traveling 4 days a week (i.e. Monday
to Thursday) and spending a night in each extension kampong, the AA (Extension)
could make his round of 17 villages in 1-1 1/2 months (i.e. about 4 villages per
week). The total number of working days is 299 per year. The average number of
days actually spent in extension activities at the village would be 15 days per
month. The months when farming activity slackens off (December, January and
February) would normally be used for scheduled leave and participation in train-
ing courses and seminars. Agricultural extension at the village level would be
based on the farm approach rather than on individual crops. Therefore, the
extension program should be synchronized with the work calendar of the major
crops.
58.       When he is not traveling, the AA (Extension) would be (a) at the
AFB writing reports on the progress of development in his area, holding meetings
at the AFB with the JAA (Area) and HDs to evaluate the progress of development,
plan the extension and travel schedule and consult with farmers; (b) attending
meetings at the district HQ to discuss problems and progress of development in
the area, and receiving advice on land technical matters and extension methodo-
logy; and (c) attending lectures on extension and agricultural subjects at the
district HQ (ESC) given by district or divisional HQ staff.
59.       The area JAA and HD should accompany the AA (Extension) on his visits
to extension villages whenever possible.  In each village, the amount of time
spent would be: 1/2 day + 1 night + 1/2 of the next day. On arrival the AA
(Extension) would be involved in visiting the farms to collect information on
the farmers' problems and assessing what progress has been made since the last
visit. He can take the opportunity of his farm visit to give on-the-spot advice
to the farmers. At night, the activities of the AA (Extension) would include
(a) discussing the farmers' problems and needs, and (b) giving talks to groups
of farmers on improved farming practices, using visual aids such as slide or
film shows. The information on farmers' problems gathered during the farm visit
and during these discussions would help the AA (Extension) work out the objec-
tives of the extension program and the specific objectives for his next visit.
The following morning, the AA (Extension) assisted by the area JAA may give a



ANNEX 3
Page 17
method demonstration to a selected group of farmers on an improved farming
practice e.g. fertilizer application to padi, application of Bordeaux mixture
to pepper, etc. (in these activities, he may occasionally be assisted by
district HQ staff).
60.       During his visits, the AA (Extension) should attempt to identify
innovative farmers with leadership potential in each village. Fifteen to
twenty such farmers could form the nucleus of an extension group; they could
attend short courses at the ATC and hopefully each would in turn spread his
knowledge to five or more neighboring farmers.
Benefits and Justification
61.       The current program is aimed mainly at priority areas, selected
on the criteria of their low and uncertain incomes and subsistence, high
dependence on traditional agriculture for livelihood, and hence, their urgent
need for agricultural extension services. The emphasis is more on reducing
uncertainty in food production and trying to achieve basic levels of self-
sufficiency. When these necessary conditions are satisfied, it will be
possible to attempt an enterprise-mix which enables commercial agricultural
production; this will depend on whether particular enterprises suit the farm
type and whether labor is available.
62.       The initial impact of the program will largely be increases in
local production, expected to be assimilated by the producers themselves
or marketed through the extensive network of rural shops. Cash crop culti-
vation will come after basic subsistence levels are satisfied.
63.       Primary level in marketing is largely in the hands of rural shop-
keepers; these are retail agents who operate in a multiple-function capacity
as retailers, creditors, and buyers of farm produce. They are in turn tied
to trading with their financiers at the second level, the wholesalers or
larger retail shops in towns, who are in turn virtually bonded by similar
credit obligations to the importers/exporters in the bigger towns.
64.       Marketing margins are difficult to compute, due to the multiple
activities of the single enterprise; agricultural produce is not graded to
any standard specifications, making meaningful price comparisons almost
impossible. However, a study of pepper marketing (Wee, 1972) indicated that
farmer prices tended to reflect exporters' prices at the end of the chain,
with marketing margins (for the same dealers) remaining fairly constant.
This makes projection of "likely" farmers' prices very difficult for now we
must contend not just with local variations in demand, supply, quality and
complex credit obligations, but also with the uncertainties of trading at the
buyers' end.
65.       The gradual expansion of the Cooperatives, Farmers' Organizations
and specialized agencies like the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
(FAMA), Pepper Marketing Board, and Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara would bring
about better marketing arrangements and ensure more equitable incomes to
farmers; the likely increases would be largely conjectural and will be
wrought in transforming a traditional agriculture to one set firmly on the
road to modernization.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
Immediate Benefits
66.       Correcting the Present Heavy Bias of DOA Towards Subsidy Schemes.
The project would establish the staff and infrastructure for an effective
extension service and would correct the present bias of the DOA towards the
provision of subsidized material inputs to farmers. Evaluation studies have
indicated shortcomings of the "direct investment" approach and there is
inadequate evidence of significant improvements in the livelihood of farmers
in Sarawak.
67.       The Agricultural Extension program seeks to rectify these weak-
nesses and rationalize the whole process of aid to farmers. It emphasizes
the "package deal" of inputs (extension and advice, supply of farm inputs,
improvement of soil and environmental conditions, proper techniques and
marketing of output) which must work together. The system also provides for
continuous reassessment to help redefine our objectives in the light of
changing circumstances and needs.
68.       Productivity and Income Increases.  It is expected that the
heightened activity on the part of Research, Extension Education and Field
Extension Services of the DOA would produce concrete results by way of
increases in yields and incomes ranging from 25% to 100% depending on the
crop and soil conditions.
69.       The "breakthrough" in agricultural mentality should augur well
for expected productivity increases. A crude comparison of preliminary
figures showing disparity in yields between high- and lower-income farmers in
the same farm types indicates that yield potential of major crops could be
increased by as much as 25% for hill padi, 38% for pepper, 50% for wet padi,
27% for rubber, more than 100% for sago (at present growing in semiwild
conditions), and more than 100% for coconut. Each of these crops is often
the mainstay of farm families in providing whatever cash or food supplements
that may be obtained. With the direction of the extension effort being aimed
primarily at poverty areas, the potential for increases in productivity and
income of rural farmers - even if less than the figures above - should not be
underestimated.
Long-Term Benefits
70.       Spread effects from these "Centers of growth".  The targeted areas
for operation from the proposed 10 ESCs and their Forward Bases are but the
nuclei of the long-term extension program. The concentration of extension
resources and facilities in these centers would uplift them to the status of
demonstration centers and spark off the sociological process of "Diffusion of
Innovation" (Creating Awareness-->Interest-->Evaluation-->Trial and-->Eventual
Adoption).
71.       Towards Rationalizing the Whole Agricultural System.  The component
parts of the extension program and proposed structures have been designeA
both to correct the deficiencies of the present system and also to strengthen
and expand in the directions desired.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Number of Kampong, Farm Families and Population in
Project District and forward areas
In selected district                 In forward areas
District
(in order
of priority)
No. of                                No. of
No. of      farm                     No. of       farm
Kampong   families   Population   Kampong   families   Population
1.  Lubok Antu        177       2,822        17,489          60         841        5,425
2.  Jalau             255       3,699        32,929         157       3,414       20,480 /a
3.  Belaga             90       1,040         7,342          38         670        4,020 /a
4.  Baram             233       4,416        39,508          27         610        6,467
5.  Serian            173      12,277        53,658          28       1,183        8,495
6.  Bintulu           255       5,234        38,722          32         636        4,097
7.  Dalat             118       2,457        18,057          21         300        1,434
8.  Saribas           224       5,052        34,767         100       1,477        6,248
9.  Sibu              329       6,046        98,314          50         721        3,775
10. Lawas             141       2,079        16,924          23         320        1,900
Total        1,995      45,122        357,710        536      10,172       62,341
Distri- Av,-age  199.5         4,512.2       35,771          53.6    1,017.2       6,234
/a Estimated
Source: Table 1, Extension Coverage of proposed 10 ESC, P.13, Vol. VI.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost Per Farm Family Under Subsidy Schemes
(In TMP)
Size/allowed/Yr         Cost/Farm family
Scheme                   Min.         Min.       Min.    Min.        Scheme    Rates
size         size       $/Yr    $/Yr       period   per acre
Pepper subsidy                200 vines   400 vines   248        497       3 yrs       2980
CPS/b
(i)  With drainage             3            5        195      325       4           260
(ii)  With fertilizer           3            5        285      475       4           380
(iii)  With drainage
and fertilizer           3             5        293     487        4           390
RPS A/c
(i)  Replanting                3           10        540    1800        5           900
(ii)  New Planting              3           10        390    1300        5           680
APPS/d                            2             *        200     -          3           300
Oil palm/e                        3            15        700    3500        3           700
Cocoa/e                           3            15       250    1250        3            250
Coffee/e                          1            5          83     416       3            250
Clove/e                           1             3         83     250       3            250
l4aize/e                         0.5            3         75      450       1           150
Sources: /a  DA.1441/109 dated 12/l/76, p.6.
/b Manuals of the CPS, TMP (1976-80), p.l.
/c  RPS Mechanics/Rules for TMP.  RPS.6/(2) dated May 11, 1976.
/d Manual of APPS. TMP (1976-80), p.2.
# No maximum size in regulation but for practical reasons (such as
limitation of funds and availability of labor per participant),
2 acres/participant is the norm.
/e Manual of Agr. DS. (TMP 1976-80).



ANNEX 3
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Subproject: Summary Implementation, Sarawak /a
1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      Total
Buildings
Office                          5         -         5         -         -          10
Quarters                       22        24        47        18        20        131
Boat shed                       5         1         5         3         2          16
Total                       32        25        57        21        22        157
Vehicles
4-wheel drive                   -         3         1         1         -           5
Boats                           6         7        10         4         5          32
Total                        6        10        11         5         5         37
Equipment
Engines                         8        11        13         6         8          46
Equipment/furniture             -         5         -         5         -          10
Field equipment /b              1         2         -         -         -           3
Total                        9        18        13        11         8         59
Staff                            25        24        50        19        21         139
/a  See Annex 6, Part I, Section A for detailed implementation schedules.
lb Refers to purchased units.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF D.O.A. COMPONENTS
SARAWAK
STATE                                                                                  - Planning, Evaluation
DTATE  HO             & Administration
D.O.A HO
DIVISION                                                                               - Planning, Evaluation
Divisional           & Administration
HO
DISTRICT                                                                               -Planning Evaluation
District HO            & Administration
AAO
AA (Vet)
AA (Flsh)
AA (Padi)
etc.
AREA
Area
Area F..Area F.B.                                Forward                     Area F.B.               Area F.6.
Base
AA Extn.
JAA Area
HD Area
Other AA's
Agric.            Planning           Input              Marketing
Extension           &               Supply,
Evaluation         Credit &
Subsidy Sch.
World Bank-16936



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE FIELD & EDUCATION BRANCHES
FOR EXTENSION - SARAWAK
DA
Asst. Director                                                                                 Asst. Director
Extension Educ.                                                                                Field Extension Branch
Training Branch
(currently Educ. Branch)
lnformnation                                     Agric.                                                                                             Home                     SubsidY
&                          f;RETDC               Training &                 Al                      Farmers                    ESC                  Economies                Schemes
.                                       Rural Youth                                        Organization
Communication                                    Services
World Bank-16937



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANILATION OF THE SARAWAK DISTRICT AGRICULTURE OFFICE WITH E.S.C.
District Agriculture HQ
SAAO - Officer-in-charge of district: Co-ordinates all the agricultural
activities of district; deais with pianning and evaluation and
general administration.
Staff             AAO - Assist SAAO but mainly deals with agricultural extension.
Organizat-ion     AA NVet.)            I Subject Matter specialists:
AA (Padi)              - participate in district planning
AA (Pepper)          )   and evaluation
AA (Fisheries)         - advises area extension workers on technical matters
AA (HE)                - assist area extension workers on planning
etc.                      and evaluation.
Agric.       Adminis-       Planning     Subsidy      Home           Rural         Farmer       Vet.
Extension    tration       & Evalu-      Scheme       Economic       Youth         Training     Services
(Including                 ation         Imple-       Ext.           Services
Functions        its Service                               mentation
to Farmer
Organiza-
tions)
Existing Agriculture Office
ESC annex with facilities for:
Facilities
- lecture-cum meeting room
- Animal husbandry annex
- Fisheries room etc.
Area Ext. F.B.                      Area Ext, FB,                       Area Ext. F,B,
Staff-                     AA (Ext.)                           AA (Ext.)                           2 x AA (Ext.l
Organization                JAA (Area 1)                        JAA (Area 3)                            JAA (Area 41
lJAA (Area 2)                       HD (Area)                              JAA (Area 5)
2 x HD (Area)
Area              Area                        Area                       Area              Area
1                 2                          3                           4                 5
Functions         - Extension Service (Agriculture and Home Economics)
- Planning & Evaluation
of Area           - Selection of farm youth and local opinion leader for training
Forward             at Agricultural Training Centres
Base              - Input supply initially through subsidy schemes
- Marketing & Credits - to be developed gradually.
Facilities       Staff quarters-cum-office and store.
World Bank-16938



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE SARAWAK
r   DIRECTOH O3F GEEIIC.ULTkIIIIE
[ DEPTUT   DIRECTOR .C  O .FHCU l-I
Pi ANNING IDIVISION
f                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LECONOMIC,S &RURAL
FIG WORKS,hOP                                 eGOISf
AAO                            ~~~~~~~~~~~AI ECONOMIST III
SOCIOLO-GIST (2
AO IEVI
IIEtLAl-CkI                                                    FIEI.D                           EETERINRY   ANIMAL IIIIS.ANORY                   EOCIATlrN                     INLAND FISL.ILElS E AOUACULTIIIlL
ASSISANIl ttCTf)H IESEAFICTI                         [         ASSISrANT DIHECTOR  IELD                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR VETERIN               _ ASSISTANT DIRECTDI EDUCATION           S L  SIUN.II f ISHRILS DfFICEI
SR. AGHfC.LTUFOAL OFFICER J
._ P _       __                                  _              __. ______
FARM MFCIIANIZATION AG. ENG.                    LIVESTOK D0EV. OFFICER                                                         FIGtERIES OFFICEk IllESFAHCI.
FAHMI HS GROANISATION AO. AAO                    LAROHATORY SERVICES  AO                                                                           SEMARIANG
RUHHER PLANTING SCHEME AHDO                     LIVESTOCK BREEDING INVESTIGATION                                               AROIF PIIILOWC ION CENTHE
PEPPER SUBSIDY SCHEME AAO                       AND TRAINING CENTRE KARABUNGAN                                                 AAOTFI TRAINING CEN'Sl
ASSISTANCE TO PA.I PLANTERS SCEIEME AG          AD. RAGO
HOME ECONOMIGS EXTENSION H.E S 141
AGRONOMY             B     Y    SCHEMISTRY                          CROP PROTECTION              SOIL                  EXPEENTA. .                  OF                                           E. VOOIH ,
DIVISON               OTNDTIONDIVISION                              DIVISION                     DIVISION              STATION               A TICLTJIE           INOMTHJ LSEASICE I
TARE CHEF SHO/AAO       BOTANIST(IEIEI            AG. CHEMIST            PL. PATHOLOGIST        SH. SOIL SURVEYOR       ID-SEMON TK ARC               AG                                                    r       AG
RIO                     EOSANISTIPEPFEHI          ANAI. CREMIST                                                         SAAOAAO                       AGO                  AO                               I      RALI
FIELD CROP HO           RITAN IST                 AAO                    AAD                                                                       _               ,
PEAT HO             M[           S                                                                                                                                     PUSLICATION                       I
PEPPER ROIAAO                                                     I                                                                                                       FICRA
NL SARANAKI RO        _J__                    __        ____                                      _ _        _                                                          PUBLICITY    |     L A
N SARA.A. .0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A
|                                                                                                                                      | HO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-fULAU--AAO 
FIELD  IOF RING
RO-d R-I,-F1 710



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Seeds Component
Introduction
1.        The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has requested a Bank loan to help
finance improvements in its existing seeds industry for the multi-licaLi n
and distribution of improved seed to farmers as part oF an expanded and
strengthened extension service. The proposed component would make an impor-
tant contribution to the achievement of the GOM's current five-year develop-
ment plan (Third Malaysia Plan) which places emphasis on agriculture and
rural development.
Background
2.        General.  The strengthening of the agricultural research and
extension services of Malaysia should obviously be paralleled by an increase
in the production and distribution of improved seeds since the poor quality
and small quantity now available are a major constraint to increased crop
production. In particular, the poverty areas outside the major irrigation
project areas have received only very small inputs of improved seeds.
3.        The area devoted to padi totaled 1.48 million acres in 1974 of
which 58% was double cropped.  Output of rice was 1.17 million tons in 19729
1.27 million tons in 1973 and 1.41 million tons in 1974. Padi production has
been increased through the provision of irrigation, double cropping and
the use of improved varieties; however most of the improved seeds available
have been distributed in the irrigation development projects.
4.        Minor crops include maize, groundnut, soybean and sorghum.  The
growth of these crops is being encouraged, particularly in the poverty area->
under the national crop diversification program of the TMP in which the maJo-
thrust of agricultural development is directed towards food crops, animal
feed crops and fruit crops. The Crop Production Branch of the DOA is given
the responsibility of carrying out this program.
5.        Very little sorghum, a recent introduction in MIalaysia, is grown at
present but the targeted area for planting in Peninsular Malaysia by the
early 1980s is 10,000 acres. However, in order to achieve this target A
organized system of marketing would need to be developed, for the preseuL
demand is such that the returns from sorghum are low compared with o Lhef
crops.  In 1973 Peninsular Malaysia had about 14,000 acres under ground.im
5,000 acres under maize and 200 acres under soybeans: the targeted areas for
these crops in the early 1980s under the TIP are about 25,000 acres for



ANNEX 4
Page 2
groundnut and 10,000 acres each for maize and soybean. At present Sabah has
about 13,000 acres planted to maize, 1,700 acres to groundnut and only 85
acres to soybean, but under the TMP it is targeted that an additional 10,000
acre~. will be planted to maize, 1,000 acres to groundnut and 250 acres to
soybean.
6.        In Sarawak there are about 128,000 acres of wet padi, 153,000
acres of hill padi, 2,800 acres of maize, 1,300 acres of soybean and 1,000
acres of groundnuts. Only about 11,200 acres of padi land have drainage
or irrigation facilities of which 4,000 acres would be double cropped.
By the enid of 1980 an additional 10,000 acres of padi land would be provided
with irrigation/drainage while 20,000 acres of maize, 9,000 acres of soybean
and 8,000 acres of groundnuts are proposed to be planted; wet padi is
expected to increase to about 150,000 acres.
7.        Under the proposed seeds component the main emphasis would be given
to the production and distribution of improved seed of padi, together with
small quantities of maize, groundnut, soybean and, for Peninsular Malaysia
only, of sorghum.
Agricultural Research, Extension and Credit
8.        Research.  In Sabah agricultural research in all crops except
rubber is a function of the Research Branch of the DOA; there is only one
center for padi and other field crop research namely the Agricultural Re-
search Centre, Tuaran. The present research program at Tuaran includes the
assessment of nutrient requirements and investigations concerned with crop
husbandry practices and pest and disease control. No plant breeding work is
carried out but introduced varieties are tested under local conditions.
Foundation stock seeds are produced from selections of the introduced varie-
ties which mainly come from Peninsular Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand
and also from selections of local varieties of padi. Although Sabah conducts
its independent research programs liaison is maintained with the Malaysian
Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI).
9.        Before M4ARDI was established, crop research was also the responsi-
bility of the DOA in Peninsular Malaysia. MARDI was inaugurated in October
1969 and became operaLive in March 1971 with the transfer of a number of
staff and research stations from the DOA and the takeover of existing
research programs in rice, oil palm, coconuts, horticultural and field crops,
ane crop protection. The Act establishing MARDI gives it responsibility for
all  :ieicAfic, technical, economic and sociological research in Malaysia in
the  rod'  tion, processing and utilization of all crops except rubber.
10.       The recent allocation of a Bank loan in support of its activities
has involved reorgar 7ation and reorientation of research within MARDI. So far
the main emphasis ha~ been directed towards rice research, including: (a) the
selectionr and breedi;g of improved high-yielding rice varieties with short
straw, eirly maturity, disease and pest resistance, nonphotosensitivity and
improved milling and cooking qualities; (b) physiological studies on the growth
components affecting high yields such as lodging control, plant spacing and



ANNEX 4
Page 3
water requirement; (c) fertilizer trials; (d) crop husbandry practices such as
nursery procedures, depth of planting and age of seedlings; and (e) trials
concerned with disease and pest control.
11.       The three most popular HYVs of rice at present in use in Malaysia
are Bahagia, Mahsuri and Jaya. A number of new varieties of padi have recently
been released by MARDI and promising new selections have been identified which
not only have high yields but also good eating qualities and disease resistance.
Earlier rice breeding activities were based on the development of varieties with
wide adaptation but more recently emphasis has been directed towards varieties
suitable for local regional conditions. The most recent varietal releases of
Sri Malaysia 1, Sri Malaysia 2 and Pulut Malaysia 1, made in 1974, are making
slow headway in terms of farmer acceptance, partly because lack of adequate
extension led to their use in environments for which they are not suited.
12.       Only a small amount of work has so far been carried out by MARDI on
groundnut, maize, soybean and sorghum. The only improved variety of maize
presently in use in Malaysia is "Metro"; the main variety being grown is a
relatively low-yielding one. However, a large collection of maize varieties may
be expected towards the middle of the proposed seed project period.
13.       The nonavailability of a steady supply of quality groundnut seed
is a major constraint on expansion of crop acreage. At present almost
all of the seed supplied to smallholders is imported from Indonesia and
Thailand. Due to the persistant shortage of groundnut seeds farmers often
plant low-yielding varieties. Collection and evaluation of groundnut varie-
ties should be given priority by MARDI.
14.       No attempt has been made to introduce improved varieties of soy-
bean except for some limited testing of material from Illinois. No plant
breeding work has been carried out in Malaysia with sorghum.
15.       Because of the present unsatisfactory position with respect to
varietal availability of these crops the DOA proposes that, at least in
Peninsular Malaysia, seed production at the start of the project would
be confined to the production of improved padi seeds. The production of
seeds of groundnut, maize, sorghum and soybean would be introduced at the
end of the third year, when recommended varieties should be available from
MARDI.
16.       Extension.  An efficient extension service is needed to publicize
new varieties and demonstrate to farmers the advantages of new varietal releases.
The existing Federal and State extension services have, in the past, been unable
to give the necessary extension impetus largely because of the lack of suitably
trained staff and financial constraints.  Too often newly bred varieties of padi,
despite their proven yield superiority, have not been accepted by farmers for
some years following their release. The inadequacy of the existing extension
services in relation to the use of improved varieties is shown by the fact



ANNEX 4
Page 4
that, although only a small quantity of improved padi seed has been produced
in Peninsular Malaysia (page 7), often even this limited amount has not been
matched by farmer demand. Because of low quality a portion of the padi seed
produced by the DOA has remained unsold for planting purposes and has finally
been disposed of as milling grain.
17.       The project components to improve seed and strengthen Malaysia's
agricultural extension services would have a major impact on the acceptance
and use of seed of improved varieties.
18.       Institutional Credit.  The use of HYVs alone does not necessarily
lead to increased yields, for their use must be paralleled by that of other
inputs, especially fertilizers and pesticides. The availability of produc-
tion credit for inputs and of input subsidies is, therefore, important in
the context of an improved seeds industry.
19.       Various subsidy schemes were implemented during the Second Malaysia
Plan (SMP) to promote crop diversification and to contain the rising costs of
inputs to farmers. The subsidies are given for planting materials (seeds and
seedlings), fertilizers and pesticides. Of particular importance is the Urea
Subsidy Scheme for padi farmers, introduced during the second half of 1974 to
offset the sharp increase in the price of urea. The allocation for subsidies
has been increased markedly under the Third Malaysia Plan (TIP).
20.       Agricultural credit is supplied by Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM)
and the FOA in Peninsular Malaysia. In Sabah the Sabah Padi Board formerly
extended credit to padi farmers but this was discontinued in 1975 because of the
bad loan recovery situation. Institutional credit is not available in Sarawak;
however seeds are included in the subsidy programs of East Malaysia.
21.       Total loans by BPM approved under the SMP totaled M$159 million,
the bulk of the loans being for padi production (41.2%), agro-based indus-
tries (23.6%), estate development (15.3%) and tobacco production and market-
ing (10.3%). Credit is provided either directly by BPM or through estab-
lished local credit centers, mostly Farmers' Organizations.
22.       During the SMP the total credit provided by FOA was M$3.6 million,
mainly for agricultural inputs, rice milling operations and expansion of
agricultural production, processing and marketing.
Irrigation and Area Development
23.       Some large-scale rice irrigation projects were developed in Malaysia
a few years ago when rice production began to lag behind consumption and
imports were imposing a serious strain on the balance of payments. There is
a much greater demand for seed of improved rice varieties in the irrigation
areas than for the country as a whole, for the irrigation areas have received
much more intensive extension and demonstration activity. At present much



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of the improved padi seed used in the irrigation areas is multiplied by tile
farmers themselves from small parcels supplied by the irrigation authorities,
but these areas would be expected to provide a major outlet for seed produced
under the proposed seed project.
24.       Among the larger irrigation schemes are the Muda and Kemuba Irri-
gation Projects. The Muda Project, operative in 1970 and controlled by
the Muda Agricultural Development Authority (MADA) is located in the States
of Kedah and Perlis and covers a command area of about 240,000 acres. The
primary objective of the project is to provide an off-season water supply to
facilitate double-cropping of padi, little attention being given to other
crops. Prior to the project the farmers were using a large number of rice
varieties but now some 85% use improved varieties for the main season crop
and 90% for the off-season crop.
25.       The Kemuba Irrigation Project, operative in 1971 and administered
by the Kemuba Agricultural Development Authority (KADA), is located in
Kelantan and serves an area of about 47,000 acres. Like Muda, the primary
objective is to provide an off-season water supply to facilitate double-
cropping of padi. About 50% of the farmers use the improved varieties Mahsuri
and Bahagia for the main-season crop while practically all of the off-season
crop consists of these varieties.
26.       Two new irrigation project areas where there will doubtless be a
large demand for improved seed are Besut in Trengganu and the Trans-Perak
Scheme, each of 12,000 acres are designed for double-cropping of padi.
27.       Under the TMP (1976-80) it is proposed that a further 70,000
acres will be provided with drainage and irrigation facilities for padi.
The Existing Seeds Industry
28.       At present only a small quantity of relatively poor quality seed
of improved varieties is produced for distribution to farmers in Malaysia.
Most of the seed produced in Peninsular Malaysia is raised on DOA farms known
as Crop Production Centers (CPCs), but on rare occasions some padi seed has
been produced by private farmers under the supervision of CPC staff.  Only
small quantities of seeds other than padi have been raised on the CPCs.
Under the project it is proposed to produce 50% or more of the seeds by
private farmers (contract growers).
29.       In Sabah seed production has been virtually restricted to padi,
recently at a level of about 15 tons per year. The multiplication of impro-
ved padi seed in Sabah has involved both the Sabah Padi Board (SPB) and the
SDOA. The SPB has provided foundation seed to selected farmers for multipli-
cation, the farmers being given the seed, fertilizers and sprays. Thus the
farmers virtually only supply the land and labor. The SPB has also supplied
the machinery for land preparation, theoretically on a hire basis but in
practice often free. The SPB has then bought the multiplied padi seed from



ANNEX 4
Page 6
the farmer-grower at a premium price some 20% above normal padi market price.
The role of the SDOA in Sabah has been confined to assistance with quality
control.
30.       In Sarawak seed multiplication is undertaken by the Research
Branch at the various crop testing stations. The amount of padi seeds
produced (37.5 tons) is far from adequate to meet the requirements of the
State.  Very small quantities of maize, soybean and groundnut seeds are
produced on a few agricultural stations, e.g. Tarat, Semongok and Kabuloh.
The bulk of the seeds are 14 tons maize, 8 tons soybean, 4.2 tons ground-
nuts purchased from seed growers through Farmer's Organizations. The seeds
are of unknown quality and the supply is not assured.
31.       The quality of the seed that has been produced in Peninsular
Malaysia, Sarawak and Sabah has generally been poor. There has been no seed
certification in the true sense and indeed only a very limited type of
quality control. The seed produced has been subjected to only elementary
testing procedures because of inadequate facilities and lack of trained
personnel. Because of these constraints, too, testing for quality control
has been confined to padi seed. As far as Peninsular Malaysia is concerned
the main seed testing facilities are at Serdang near Kuala Lumpur; the
testing facilities available at the actual CPCs where the seeds have been
raised are so inadequate as to allow of only simple checks on germination and
viability.
32.       The quality of the seeds produced has been poor not only because of
the unavailability of adequate testing facilities but also because of comp-
letely inadequate processing equipment and storage facilities at the CPCs and
shortage of trained staff. There are very few artificial driers for padi
seed, most of which has to be sun-dried on large concrete floors, making it
difficult to control the moisture content and to avoid mixing the seed of
different varieties. Sun-drying the main-season padi crop can be reasonably
efficient, but drying of the off-season crop runs into the onset of the wet
season when high rainfall and high humidity are experienced. The storage
facilities at the CPCs are often small and frequently their construction and
design are so poor that seed deterioration, particularly due to rodents and
birds, is unavoidable. The CPCs, too, are often too poorly supplied with
farm equipment and machinery to undertake large-scale production of improved
seeds; at present harvesting and transplanting of padi are not mechanized.
33.       At present the CPCs used for seed production have a large number of
staff relative to their output of improved seeds, partly because the staff is
poorly trained and the operations are so labor-intensive. Production costs
of padi seed are very high, especially when compared with costs of a typical
farmer-grower of padi. It should be pointed out that the production costs
given in the table for improved padi seed do not include those associated
with the visits to the CPC of supervisory staff from DOA headquarters.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Quantities of Seeds Produced in Peninsular Malaysia
by the Crop Production Branch of the DOA
(tons)
1972          1973           1974
Padi                           340            500            650
Maize                            15            18             22
Groundnut                         2             5              9
Sorghum                          8              2              1
Soybean                        0.3            0.1              2
34.       The costs of production of padi seed are relatively high at CPCs
(Vol. II: Project File, Part I, Section B) as compared with costs of a typical
farmer grower of padi because most field operations are still labor intensive,
and facilities to mechanize labor-intensive operations, such as transplanting
and harvesting, to expand production and to use outgrowers have been lacking.
There is sufficient field staff at CPCs to supervise and assist outgrowers,
should related facilities become available, and the requisite training is
provided.
35.       In Sabah, Sarawak and Peninsular Malaysia the foundation seed is
supplied by MARDI or local research stations. The absence of a proper monitoring
system has sometimes led to the release of padi varieties which, although high
yielding and disease resistant, did not have other qualities favoring general
acceptance by farmers, millers and consumers.
36.       Distribution of the small quantity of improved padi seed produced
in Sabah is handled by the SPB. As far as Peninsular Malaysia is concerned
the seed produced at the CPCs is sold to SDOAs, the irrigation authorities
like MADA and KADA, or directly to farmers. The SDOAs and the irrigation
authorities distribute the seeds to farmers through Farmer Associations (FAs)
or at selected distribution centers in villages where there are no FAs. The
farmers may either buy the seed from the SDOA, exchange their own padi seed
(on a weight basis) with the SDOA for the improved seed or be given seed free
under the Farm Crop Subsidy Scheme in localities covered by the Scheme.
37.       For seeds other than padi in Peninsular Malaysia the CPCs may sell
seed directly to farmers or to SDOAs for distribution to farmers. At present
the SDOAs provide free seeds of groundnut, maize and soybean to farmers
under the Farm Crop Subsidy Scheme in localities covered by the Scheme.
38.       For some crops, but notably groundnut and vegetables, a well organ-
ized dealer network exists based largely on imported seed. Most of the
distribution occurs through one or two large seed dealers, but there are also
a number of smaller dealers acting as retail distribution outlets.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
39.       There is at present no seed legislation in Malaysia, and it is not
envisaged that legislation would be required during the project as the govern-
ment would continue to be the only producer of seed. Legislation would simply
be government regulating government. As indicated earlier, only limited
control over the quality of the seed produced at the CPCs in Peninsular
Malaysia and by the farmer-growers of padi in Sabah is currently possible
because of the poor facilities and equipment and lack of suitably trained
staff. It should be pointed out though that preliminary standards for improved
padi seed have been prepared by the Technical Committee on Propagation Materials
under the authority of the Agricultural Industry Standards Committee./l The
prepared document prescribes the production and quality standards of rice seed
for propagation purposes. As far as seed purity is concerned the following
standards are laid down:
pure seed (minimum)          98%
inert matter (maximum)        2%
other crop seed (maximum)   0.10%
weed seed (maximum)           5 grams per kg
germination (minimum)        80%
moisture content (maximum) 13%
Project Definition
40.       The project would finance the development of a seeds industry in
Malaysia that would vastly upgrade its facilities and capacities for the
production, processing, quality control and distribution of improved seeds.
As presently defined in the preparation report, Peninsular Malaysia and East
Malaysia are included in the project.
41.       At full development the proposed facilities would process, store
and distribute each year for Peninsular Malaysia 2,000 tons of padi seed, 250
tons of groundnut, 90 tons of soybean, 30 tons of maize and 30 tons of
sorghum seed. For Sabah the targeted production (end of project) would
be 200 tons of padi and a total of 150 tons of maize, groundnut and soybean,
and 250 tons of padi and the development of minor crop seeds for Sarawak.
42.       The project would include:
(a) the installation of processing and storage facilities at all CPCs
(5 on the Peninsula, 2 in Sabah and I in Sarawak), together with small
seed testing laboratories;
(b) equipment for a major seed testing and quality control laboratory
at Serdang;
(c) farm machinery to mechanize production operations on about 800 acres
of CPC land;
/1 Standards Institution of M4alaysia. Draft standards for public comment.
Malaysian standard specification for rice seed for planting. Undated.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(d) land development at some of the selected C.PC seed centers;
(e) a seed fund for the purchase of seed multiplied by farmer-outgrowers
under contract to DOA;
(f) fellowships for staff training;
(g) foreign technical assistance;
(h) the installation of processing and storage facilities at Papar for
padi together with equipment and facilities for seed testing and
quality control;
(i) the physical infrastructure facilities for the establishment of a
fully equipped CPC at Tenom for the production of seed of maize,
groundnut and soybean together with processing, storage and seed
testing equipment. In addition to Tenom two subsidiary crop produc-
tion centers, each of 10 acres, would be established solely for the
production of maize, groundnut and soybean seed. One would be at
Ulu Dusun Station in Sandakan and the other at the Kuhara Station
in Tawau. The main financing required under the project for the two
subsidiary CPCs would be for land development and a seed store at
each location;
(j) limited farm machinery; and
(k)  the physical infrastructure facilities for the establishment of a
fully equipped CPC at Paya Selanyau for the production of padi
seeds together with processing, storage and seed testing equip-
ment.
43.       The DOA would be entirely responsible for processing, storage,
testing and quality control.
Detailed Features
44.       Variety Release and Foundation Seed.  MARDI would supply the found-
ation seed. In order to ensure that the varieties released by MARDI are
acceptable to farmers, millers and consumers Regional Seed Assessment Commit-
tees would be formed in the major rice growing areas of the country. They
would include representatives from MARDI, SDOA, LPN, farmers (represented by
FOA), millers and consumers. These committees would advise the respective
Crop Advisory Committees which would forward their recommendations for the
National Seed Assessment Committee (NSAC) to decide on the release of any new
varieties for multiplication and distribution to farmers. Details of the
functions and organization of NSAC are given later under Organization and
Management (paras. 94 and 95).
45.       Seed Production.  Five CPCs have been selected in Peninsular
Malaysia to become seed production centers. Of these five the CPCs at Telok



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Chengai, Bumbong Lima, Titi Gantong and Lundang would undertake large-scale
seed production (multiplication). The fifth CPC, Ajil, would simply be a
processing and distribution center and would depend on farmer-outgrowers and
State Agricultural Stations for seed production. The production of groundnut,
maize, sorghum and soybean in Peninsular Malaysia would be undertaken mainly
at CPCs in Titi Gantong and Lundang.
46.       In Peninsular Malaysia the project would rely heavily on farmer-
growers for seed production, but only for padi and groundnut, as these two
crops are not subject to cross-pollination problems. It is anticipated that
by the fifth year of the project half of the padi seed and 70% of the ground-
nut seed in Peninsular Malaysia would come from contract growers.
47.       Peninsular Malaysia seed production would initially be confined
to padi. Maize, soybean, sorghum and groundnut production would be intro-
duced during the third year of the project, by which time it is hoped that
improved varieties would be released by MARDI.
48.       In Sabah all of the padi seed would be raised by farmer-growers under
contract to the DOA rather than on CPCs; a processing and distribution center
will be set up at Papar. Assistance of the SPB would be sought in the selec-
tion of appropriate farmer-growers. The maize, groundnut and soybean seeds
in Sabah would be entirely produced on the CPC at Tenom and the subsidiary
CPCs at Ulu Dusun in Sandakan and Kuhara Station in Tawau.
49.       In Sarawak all of the padi foundation seeds required for multi-
plication at other agricultural stations and farmer growers under contract
to the DOA would be undertaken at Paya Selanyau. In addition certified
seeds for distribution would also be produced. Seeds of other crops produced
on farmer fields or agricultural stations would be processed whenever feas-
ible.
50.       The farmer seed growers would enter into an agreement with the
Seed Production Unit of the CPC seed center on an official contract basis
to grow a specified acreage of one padi variety. The terms of contract
would cover details of field standards required by the Seed Certification
and Testing Unit. The field inspectors of this unit would carry out field
inspections during the growing season to determine the eligibility of the
crop to meet the required quality standards and advise the growers of
rogueing and other requirements to maintain the defined standards. Crops
would be harvested by the grower but under supervision of Seed Production
Unit staff.
51.       Under these contracts the DOA would provide foundation seed at
special prices which would be higher than the current commercial price, on
credit against delivery of harvested seed to processing plants. On delivery
the grower would be paid the sum agreed under the terms of the contract. It
is envisaged that seed growers would be paid a premium of 30% above the
prevailing market price of normal padi as fixed by LPN prior to each cropping
season. Payment will be made from the seeds fund.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
52.       Training of seed growers on seed production and field aspects of
quality control would be provided by AA and AT staff from the CPCs.
53.       The farmer-growers selected in Peninsular Malaysia would be respon-
sible for their own land preparation but in Sabah land preparation machinery
would be available on hire from the SPB.
54.       Under the project tractors and machinery would be provided so that
all field preparation for planting at the CPCs would be mechanized. Part of
the padi planting (by the transplant method) and harvesting would also be
mechanized at the CPCs through the provision of some mechanical harvesters and
transplanters. Details of farm machinery to be supplied under the project
and the phasing of its purchase are given in Table 1. However, all weeding,
rogueing and spraying for disease and pest control would be done by hand.
55.       Funds would be provided under the project for land development at
three of the CPC seed centers in Peninsular Malaysia and at Tenom, the two
subsidiary CPCs in Sabah and one CPC in Sarawak (Annex 6, Section B). The
greatest expenditure would be at Titi Gantong for land clearing, and the
construction of drainage and irrigation facilities, and farm roads, since part
of this CPC is still under rainforest.
56.       Seed Processing and Storage.  The locations of the five CPCs that
have been chosen to become the seed centers are Telok Chengai, Bumbong Lima,
Titi Gantong, Ajil and Lundang; each would be provided with processing and
storage facilities. Criteria that were used in their selection are:
(a) availability of suitably drained and irrigated land for seed
production;
(b) access to potential seed markets: distance and transportation
resources;
(c) seed demand potential of the area;
(d) presence of other agricultural institutions and services that
could provide back-up guidance and supervision of production,
processing and marketing of seed; and
(e) general suitability of the site for the building and operation
of the processing and storage facilities.
57.       For Peninsular Malaysia the targeted seed production under the
project at full development is 2,000 tons of padi, 250 tons of groundnut,
90 tons of soybean, 30 tons of maize and 30 tons of sorghum seed, giving a
total of 2,400 tons per year. This output is expected to provide the follow-
ing proportions of the total annual seed requirement: padi land double-
cropped (calculated on the basis of seed exchange every third year) 33%, padi
single-cropped 11%, total padi areas 22%, groundnut 28%, maize 33%, sorghum
and soybean each 50%.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
58.       The capacity of the proposed processing plants in Peninsular
Malaysia would be slightly in excess of the targeted production of 2,400 tons.
Within the double-cropped padi areas a processing plant with a capacity of
500 tons is proposed for Telok Chengi, one of 200 tons for Bumbong Lima, of
300 tons for Titi Gantong and of 200 tons for Lundang. The capacity of the
plant at Ajil, in a single-cropped padi area, would be 100 tons. Thus the
total potential output capacity of the five plants would be 2,500 tons per
year.
59.       Two seed processing and storage facilities would be provided under
the project in Sabah. One would be at Papar for padi which, as a double-
cropped area, would have a yearly output of 200 tons. The other, at Tenom,
would have a capacity of 150 tons and would be for processing maize, groundnut
and soybean.
60.       The estimated seed requirement for planting the areas targeted for
each crop by 1980 under the TMP for Sabah are maize 89 tons, groundnut 36 tons
and soybean about 4 1/2 tons. The proposed plant at Tenom would, therefore,
be easily capable of meeting the full estimated requirements for these crops.
There are about 83,000 acres of land under wet padi at present in Sabah,
10,000 acres of which are double-cropped. The present annual seed requirement
for planting all of the double-cropped land is, therefore, around 100 tons.
The immediate potential is for increased double cropping where most farmers
presently practice single cropping using local varieties.
61.       In Sarawak, the estimated seed requirement for planting the area
targeted for each crop by 1980 under the TMP are padi, 600 tons, maize,
226 tons, groundnuts, 395 tons and soybeans, 175 tons. The proposed CPC
at Paya Selanyau would be capable of producing 50 tons of seeds and proces-
sing up to 250 tons of padi. The project would propose to produce 250 to
300 tons of seeds at full development.
62.       The processing plants would have batch-type drying facilities (forced
heated air flow system) consisting of either two or four drying bins according
to the capacity of the plant, cleaning and grading, chemical treating and
bagging facilities. Details of processing plants ranging from 500 tons to
100 tons capacity would be prepared with the advice of a consultant. The seeds
receiving, processing and storage operations would be in a sequence so as to
minimize handling costs. The estimated costs of the proposed buildings,
processing equipment, storage facilities and ancillary equipment at each of
the seed centers in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak are given in
Tables 5, 6 and 7.
63.       The final design specifications for tender documents would actually
be prepared by an expatriate consultant provided under the project in conjunc-
tion with the Crop Production Branch of the DOA. The consultant would also
assist with the evaluation of bids for the seed plant equipment.
64.       The proposed phasing of construction of the processing plants and
storage facilities are shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
65.       The project would provide for in-service practical training of
staff in the operation and maintenance of seed processing and storage plants
as well as short-term (3-6 months) overseas fellowships and a limited
number of longer-term fellowships.
66.       Seed Quality.  Seed quality control would be the responsibility of
the DOA alone. Seed legislation would probably not be introduced during the
five years of the project, although some attention would be given to drafting
such legislation. During the course of the project "certified" seed would be
produced in the sense that it would have minimum standards of quality guaran-
teed by the DOA. Each of the seed centers would have the basic equipment and
facilities needed for quality control and a main seed standards laboratory
would be established at Serdang near Kuala Lumpur.
67.       The project would also involve three types of in-service staff
training and fellowships for overseas training in aspects of seed quality
control:
(a)  short local training courses for officers in varietal identification,
field inspection procedures and laboratory seed testing procedures;
(b) short-term (3-6 months) overseas fellowships for training in
quality control procedures;
(c) limited graduate and postgraduate fellowships for longer-term seed
technology training.
68.       The estimated fellowship costs and phasing are shown in Annex 6,
Part F.
69.        Seed Distribution.  The DOA would be responsible for the distri-
bution of seeds under the project in Peninsular Malaysia and for seeds other
than padi in Sabah and Sarawak; the SPB in Sabah and the DOA in Sarawak would
be expected to assume responsibility for padi seed distribution in these
States. A formal network of channels of distribution would be organized
involving the following outlets:
(a) the Inputs Distribution Units of the SDOAs;
(b) the Farmers Development Centers of the FOA;
(c) the Inputs Distribution Units of specific agencies like
MADA and KADA;
(d) the Crop Production Centers;
(e) dealers in agricultural inputs located in the rural areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 14
70.       Technical Assistance.  The DOA has had very limited experience in
many  sD.   , of improved seed production but especially in the specification,
installation and operation of processing and storage equipment. The services
of -- - reign expert would be required for a period of two years; part of his
time (three months) would be spent in both Sabah and Sarawak, and the remainder
in Peninsular Malaysia. He would be needed from the start of the project as
one of his first functions would be to assist the DOA to prepare specifica-
tions for the processing facilities and to prepare the necessary procurement
documents. Also included in his terms of reference would be:
(a)  to assist the Seed Project Director with the organization and
implementation of seed distribution;
(b)  to assist in formulating training courses in seed processing
and storage;
(c)  to assist in the selection of institutions and seed production
centers for staff training abroad; and
(d)  to assist in the planning, design, and selection of facilities and
equipment.
71.       Training and Fellowships.  The project would involve specialized
training of staff and also of farmer seed growers in various technical
aspects. In-service staff training involving courses of 1-2 weeks duration
would be carried out with the assistance of the foreign technical expert.
Training on varietal 'dentification and plant characteristics of existing and
new varieties would be carried out by MARDI staff during short courses held
at their research stations. The training of seed testing staff in seed
analysis, germination and other related aspects would take place at the major
seed testing laboratory at Serdang.
72.       Farmer seed growers would receive training from AA and AT staff on
seed production and field aspects of certification.
73.       A number of fellowships would be provided for staff training overseas,
primarily to provide for short-term visits to foreign seed production centers
but also for some longer-term training at institutions specializing in seed
technolLgy.  It is envisaged that some 14 man-years of fellowships would be
pro-v'da7 under the project for Peninsular Malaysia (Annex 6, Section F).
7F-       Seed Promotion and Extension.  The rate of uptake and use of improved
se^-  w-''  depend heavily upon the effectiveness of the DOA's promotion program,
.e. ex,.  sion, subsidies and seeds pricing policy.  Seeds are presently being
distributed on the following basis: (a) cash payment relative to cost of
prcCd ct_,., (b) exc  nge of seed for padi on a one for one weight basis, and
(c) ffee to farmers  no do not have the resources or incentive to purchase
improve' s-'eds. The State extension services of the DOA would play the leading
role in -his program and for this purpose would work in close association with
Farmers' Organizations and authorities like MADA and KADA. Field days at the
CPCs and field demonstration plots would be used to show the advantages of
using quality seeds of recommended varieties of crops.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
75.       Seeds Component Financing.  The project would assist GOM with finan-
cing the foreign exchange component (US$3.08 million), of which US$0.37 million
is civil works, US$0.37 million is vehicles and equipment, and US$1.15 million
is technical assistance and fellowships. Physical contingencies are US$0.21
million, and price contingencies are US$0.81 million. Details of the seeds
component cost are contained in Annex 6, Section C, and Vol. II: Project File,
Part II, Section C; the summary of costs is as follows:
Seed Subproject Cost Summary
Malaysian $ million              US $ million           %
Foreign                       Foreign           Foreign
Local  exchange   Total      Local  exchange  Total  exchange
Civil works                  2.31    0.93        3.24      0.91    0.37       1.28     29
Vehicles                      -       0.70       0.70        -      0.28      0.28    100
Equipment                    0.55    2.19        2.74      0.22    0.87       1.09     80
Staff                        0.19      -         0.19      0.08
Working capital              0.56      -         0.56       0.22     -        0.22
Technical assistance         0.05    0.36        0.41      0.02    0.14       0.16     85
Fellowships                   -       1.09       1.09       -       0.43      0.43    100
Total Base Costs        3.66    5.27       8.93       1.44    2.09      3.56      59
Contingencies
Physical                   0.24    0.53        0.77      0.10    0.21      0.31
Price                      0.81    1.97        2.78      0.34    0.78       1.09
Total                   1.05    2.50       3.55       0.44    0.99      1.40
Total Costs, Seed
Subproject                 4.71    7.77       12.48      1.88    3.08      4.96      63



ANNEX 4
Page 16
Organization and Management
76.       General.  In all three territories, Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and
Sarawak, the respective DOAs will be responsible for the implementation of
the Seeds Project (see Seeds Production Organization Chart XTB17048). To
ensure that the activities of the project are on schedule and properly moni-
tored and directed as envisaged Project Leaders will be appointed to assist and
be responsible to the Project Directors of the respective DOA.
77.       In Peninsular Malaysia, the Crop Production Branch of the DOA would
be responsible for the implementation of the project. In Sarawak and in Sabah
the respective DOAs will be responsible for the implementation of the project.
MARDI in Peninsular Malaysia and in collaboration with the respective Research
Branch of DOA Sarawak and Sabah will be responsible for the development of new
varieties and for the production of foundation seed. Responsibility for the
approval of newly bred varieties, for release to the DOA for multiplication and
distribution to farmers would be vested with the National Seeds Assessment
Committee (NSAC) in Peninsular Malaysia, while Seeds Committee with similar
functions would be set up in Sarawak and Sabah separately.
78.       Seed distribution in Peninsular Malaysia would be carried out by
several agencies including FOA, the Irrigation Project Authorities like MADA
and KADA and the SDOAs. Similarly in Sarawak and Sabah the SDOAs there would
fully utilize all existing channels for project seed distribution for example
the Field Branch of SDOA Sarawak, the Extension Branch of SDOA Sabah, the Sabah
Padi Board and Farmers Organizations in the two territories.
79.       Organization of the Seed Production, Processing, Certification
and Testing Section of the Crop Production Branch. This reorganized section
within the Crop Production Branch of the DOA would assume responsibility for
executing the project. It would be headed by an Assistant Director (Seed
Production) and made up of three units (a) Seed Production Unit, (b) Seed
Processing, Storage and Distribution Unit, and (c) Seed Certification and
Testing Unit. A senior agricultural officer (SAO) would be assigned as head
of each of the three units. The heads of the first two units would report to
Lhe Assistant Director (Seed Prodrction), while the head of the third would be
directly responsible to the Director of the Crop Production Branch in order
to maintain the independence of the regulatory control functions of the Unit.
The organization of the seed component is summarized in Chart WB17278.
80.       The Seed Production Unit would be responsible for production aspects.
It would determine the country's annual requirements of breeder, foundation,
registered and certified seed and arrange for the regional production at CPCs
and/or seed growers' fields, All the foundation seed and 50-60% oi the certi-
fied seed would be produced at the CPCs; the remaining 40-50% of the certified
seed would be produced on seed growers' farms selected by the Seed Production
Unit. A seeds fund for seed procurement, administered by the Administrative
Office of the Crop Production Branch of the DOA headquarters and functioning
under instructions from the Seed Production Unit, would be provided under the
project. A register of seed growers would be maintained by the Seed Production
Unit. The staff requirement for the unit for Peninsular Malaysia is presented
in Annex 6, Section B.



ANNEX 1
Page l/
81,       The Seed Processing  Storage and Distribution Unit would be
responsible for all aspects of the project concerning processing, packaging,
storage and distribution of certified seeds. In this respect the head of
this unit and his staff, with the assistance of the foreign expert, would
design each processing plant, specify the equipment, prepare tender documents,
and supervise construction of civil works and the installation of equipment.
The unit would then manage and operate the processing plants and related
storage facilities.
82.       The Administration Office of the Crop Production Branch would main-
tain operations accounts on a commercial basis for the processing plants0
83.       The processing and storage facilities would be managed within the
total organization of each CPC seed center. The responsibility for the
control of seed processing, storage and distribution would be through one AO
or an experienced AA. He would be responsible to the officer-in-charge of
the CPC seed center.
84.       The Seed Certification and Testing Unit would have an independent
status regarding its regulatory control functions and would be the sole seed
certification authority in Malaysia. It would be directly responsible to the
Director of the Crop Production Branch of the DOA. The duties of the unit
would cover field inspection, control of seed quality during processing and
storage, seed sampling and testing, sealing, labeling and certification. It
would also be responsible for field testing of breeder, foundation, registered
and certified seed samples to check genetic purity, varietal purity and the
presence of seed-borne diseases which may not be discernible in the laboratory.
85.       The Seed Certification and Testing Unit would delegate powers to
its inspectors, samplers and analysts for access to and inspection of fields
producing seed under the project, the project seed centers where seeds are
processed and stored, and the premises of stores of private dealers selling
seeds produced under the project.
86.       In addition this unit would formulate the seed quality standards
that would be empowered under Ministerial Regulations. Eventually a seed
legislation act would be required and the unit would be responsible for
its formulation and implementation.
87.       A major laboratory for seed testing and certification would be
established at Serdang. In addition basic seed testing facilities would
be provided at each of the CPC seed centers.
88.       Organization of the CPC Seed Centers.  Each CPC seed center would
be provided with staff from the three above mentioned units. The AG in
charge of each seed center would ensure the coordination of the activities of
the different units within his center. The officers in charge of each of the
three units within the seed center would report to their respective controlling
officers at headquarters through the officer-in-charge of the seed center.



AliNEX 4
Page 18
89.       The Seed Certification and Testing Unit would be represented at each
seed cc  cr by a number of field certification and laboratory testing staff.
These staff would be responsible through the officer-in-charge of each CPC
seee center to the head of the Seed Certification and Testing Unit at head-
quacK ers.
90.       National Seed Assessment Committee (NSAC).  The Government would
underLake to set up a NSAC to perform the following functions:
(a) to review the characteristics and performance of new varieties
recommended by MARDI as well as the probability of their acceptance
by farmers, millers and consumers and thereby assess the suitability
of the varieties for inclusion in the seed production program;
(b) to ensure liaison and close collaboration between the different
agencies associated with the seeds industry, namely IIARDI, DOA, LPN,
FOA and millers; and
(c) to review and revise, if necessary, the seed production targets
for various crops.
91.       Pending the enactment of seed legislation the NSAC would have
advisory functions only. The Committee would include representatives from
MIARDI, the Crop Production Branch and the Extension Branch of DOA, FOA and
the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA) and would co-opt other
members as necessary. The LPN, for example, would attend meetings concerned
with the release of -adi varieties.
92.       Contract Growing and Seed Pricing.  With the introduction of seed
growers into the project a contract growing system for seed procurement would
be established. The DOA would contract growers to produce seed under terms
and conditions mutually acceptable both technically and financially. Under
these contracts the DOA would provide foundation seed at special prices
which would be higher than the current commercial prices, on credit against
delivery of the harvested seed to processing plants. It would also provide
field inspection and laboratory testing services at no direct cost to the
farmer producer.  The staff of the Seed Certification and Testing Unit would
ensure that only seeds from crops of acceptable standard are purchased by the
seed centers. It is anticipated that in the case of padi farmer-growers they
would be paid a premium of 20-30% above the market price of normal padi as
fixed by LPN prior to each cropping season. A seeds fund would be provided
to finance such a scheme. Assurances would be sought that the Federal Govern-
ment would finance and replenish the seeds fund as required to cover operating
deficits and subsidies.
93.       To promotc ~ihe quick acceptance and use of certified seeds, the
improved seeds shoul- be sold to selected farmers at normal seed market prices
during the first thria years of the project.  During the initial phase of the
project COM may wish to subsidize the purchase of seeds to promote their
introduction and make them available to farmers who do not have adequate
resources. After this time a premium of around 30% would be charged.



ANNEX 4
Page 19
94.       Audits and Accounts.  Separate accounts would be established and
maintained to cover each part of the project investment and operations in
accordance with sound commercial accounting practices. This would allow the
efficiency of various operations to be monitored. Each account would be
audited annually by an independent auditor and copies of audit reports would
be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Justification
95.       Economic Benefits.  At full development improved seeds marketed
under the project in Peninsular Malaysia would be sufficient to sow about
200,000 acres of padi, 7,000 acres of groundnut, 3,000 acres of maize, 5,000
acres of sorghum and 5,000 acres of soybean each year. The improved padi
seed produced in Sabah would be sufficient to sow about 20,000 acres. The
capacity of the processing plant proposed for Tenom is 150 tons soybean per
year. If it is assumed that production consists of 60 tons of groundnut, 86
tons of maize and 4 tons of soybean, it would be sufficient to sow about 1,680
acres of groundnut, 9,600 acres of maize and 220 acres of soybean. The esti-
mated increased yields due to the improved seeds for padi and the national
incremental annual income resulting from the use of the seeds are set out in
(Annex 7, Section A). After deducting the investment costs and the operating
costs the economic rate of return would be about 5%.
96.       Financial Benefits.  The estimated net annual incremental farm
income per acre accruing to farmers using the certified seeds would be about
US$588 for padi. As far as the main product of the seeds project, padi seed,
is concerned benefits would accrue to around 750,000 farmers in Peninsular
Malaysia and 110,000 farmers in Sabah.
97.       Ecology.  It is unlikely that the project would have a significantly
adverse effect on the ecology of the country although the use of HYVs does
require the application of chemical fertilizers and sprays for pest contol.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Seed Subproject: Implementation Summary /a
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    Total
Buildings
Seed lab./processing                 7         6                       13
Seed center                                    4      1                 5
Quarters                             8         3                       11
Office/store                         4         2                         6
Garage/workshop                      2         1                        3
Total                            21       16       1                38
Equipment
Tractors/accessories                19        14     12        4       49
Ploughs/accessories                 14         7     15        7       43
Spreaders/harvesters                 8         5      5        5       23
Sprayers                            14         4     11        3       32
Processing plant                     1         1                        2
Dryer                                2         1                        3
Other /b                            12        18                       35
Total                            70       50      48      19       187
Vehicles
4-wheel drive vehicles               2         5      3        1       11
5-ton lorries                        5         3      4        3       15
Total                             7         8      7       4        26
Additional Staff
Lab. assistant                       2         4      3        1       10
Clerk/typist                         5         1      1                 7
Mechanics                                             4        1        5
Drivers                      1       2         2      2        2        9
Total                    1        9        7      10       4        31
/a  See Annex 6, Part I, Section B for detailed implementation schedules
/b Includes water pumps, processing and seed laboratory equipment.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SEEDS PRODUCTION ORGANIZATION
Minister of Agriculture
Director-General
Department of Agriculture
|   auyDirwetor-Genor l |
|   rpProduto8rnh r                          t      mit||   Extension Breneh
Assistant Director                                  Assistant Director
Certification & Testing                                Seed Production
S   Seed Processing          Training and
Seed Certification and         Seed Production                                Storage & Distri-          Demonstiation
Teciol Unir   U  t                      |   bution Unit                  Unit
I ~~~~~~~~~~~II
National Seed Teoting                               CPC - Seed Centres       mm              m  m  m   -            16 m        RETOC/ESC's
Laboratory8
Processing Storage          Training and
Certification & Testing          Production                                    and Distribution          Demonstration
X   |   [  CPC'S  |                     [Processing Plant         | CPC's/RETDC's   *  _ 
e.d In         I                  |'I  Seed Stores   |                                   |      ESC's
GContrac                                       Distribution                                   Farmers Field
| SDOA  | |  FOA  |   KADA |
World Bank-170A1



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROPOSED STAFF DEPLOYMENT FOR THE SEEDS SUB-PROJECT
Director Crop Production
Superscale 'E'
SAO         -Senior Agriculture
l  l                                                                 Officer Superscale '6'
Assistant Director1/                                                         Assistant Director                                              AO          -Agriculture Officer
Certification & Testing s/s 'F'                                              Seed Production s/s 'F'                                         AA            Agricultural Assistant
AT          -Agricultural Technicians
LA          -Laboratory Assistant
. , ...............................                  Prod          Production
PSD         - Processing. Storage
Seed Certific-ation & Testing - SAO                                                                                                                            an   itrbto
Seed Processing Storage            Seed Production -SAO                Training & Dem nstration     CT            Certificatin
and Distribution -SAO                                                           SAO                 CT            Certificatin
\                                              .*                  ~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT  - Certification and
Testing
\  |  /s*  | *h  - Superseale
Crop Production Centres
To be appointed at full development of the Prog Project.
World Bank-17278



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Component
Introduction
1.        The work of agricultural field staff of DOA in the past was heavily
oriented towards regulatory functions, subsidy schemes and survey work for
which limited levels of practical skill and technical knowledge were sufficient.
In recent years great emphasis has been placed on agricultural development
and the demand for new and better trained staff throughout the agricultural
industry has grown very rapidly, with priority for new staff being given to
high intensity cropping areas, research, export crops, etc. Three new
agricultural institutes to train extension staff have been established during
the past four years, but even so, the increased production of the training
institutes has not met the new demand for operative level staff and the low
priority poverty areas have been least fortunate in the allocation of new staff.
2.        The training institutes have focused on training new agricultural
technicians and thus neglected in-service refresher, up-grading and specialized
training of existing field staff. Such in-service training is urgently
needed to improve the technical knowledge of existing field staff of DOA and
other agricultural agencies in basic agricultural science and crop technology,
and to provide training in operational skills in such fields as extension and
communication methods and farm management, and, for supervisory staff, in
administration and personnel management skills as well.
Training Component Financing
3.        The training which would be financed under the project, to meet
the needs of DOA outlined above, is described in the following sections:
1. Peninsular Malaysia; 2. Sabah; and 3. Sarawak. The project would assist
GOM with financing the foreign exchange comDonent (US$6.24 million), of which
US$2.39 million is civil works, US$1.51 million is vehicles and equipment,
and US$0.47 million is technical assistance and fellowships. Physical
contingencies are US$0.46 million and price contingencies US$1.41 million.
Details are contained in Annex 6, Section E and in the supplementary report
No. 1555a-s-MA and are summarized below.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Training Subproject Cost Summary
Malaysian $ million               US $ million              %
Foreign                       Foreign             Foreign
Local   exchange   Total    Local   exchange   Total   exchange
Civil works               10.14      6.02      16.16      4.02     2.39       6.41       37
Vehicles                    -        1.54       1.54       -       0.61       0.61      100
Equipment                   0.57     2.27       2.84      0.23     0.90       1.13       80
Staff                      3.22       -         3.22      1.28      -         1.28
Operating Costs            4.52       -         4.52      1.79      -         1.79
Fellowships                  -       1.19       1.19       -       0.47       0.47      100
Total Base Costs    18.45    11.02        29.47     7.32      4.37      11.69      37
Contingencies
Physical                  1.14     1.17       2.31     0.45      0.46       0.91
Price                    3.90      3.56       7.46     1.55      1.41       2.96
Total                 5.04      4.73       9.77     2.00      1.87       3.87      48
Total Costs, Training
Subproject              23.49    15.75       39.24     9.32      6.24      15.56      40



ANNEX 5
Page 3
1. PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
BACKGROUND
Staff Numbers
4.        Staffing of the extension service of the Department of Agriculture
is made up as follows:
Rank                     Title                   Qualification    Number
Professional      Agricultural Officer (AO)         Degree                 27
Subprofessional   Agricultural Assistant (AA)       Diploma                86
Operative          Agricultural Technician (AT)    Certificate            495
Suboperative      various                           No specific           N/A
formal training
Training Institutions
5.        Professional Level.  B.Sc. level training in agriculture is provided
at the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur,
and at the University Pertanian Malaysia (UPM) at Serdang. In the past only
a degree course in general agriculture was taught, but new courses in agri-
business and in economic resources will graduate their first students in 1978
and 1979 respectively.
6.        Subprofessional Level.  At Serdang, UPM has a well integrated
training complex providing diploma and degree training in agriculture.
Recent review of course programs has made it possible to increase capacity
for M.S. level training with a wide range of specializations. An Agricul-
tural Institute (AI) is situated at Serdang on land adjoining UPM and the
headquarters station of MARDI.
7.        Operative Level.  Certificate training, which is a federal govern-
ment responsibility, is provided at six training institutes which are well
distributed throughout the Peninsula. Three of these were constructed
recently with IDA assistance (Loan 599-MA). Since 1966 the certificate
course has been a 3-year course (it was an 18 month course prior to 1966)
and trainees graduating from the institutes find employment with MARDI,
FELDA, RISDA, FOA, DOA, and the private sector. The demand for Agricultural
Technicians (AT) during the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP) is expected to exceed
possible supply by over 6,000 (see para. 9).



ANNEX 5
Page 4
8.        Suboperative Level.  Staff at this level are employed for specific
tasks with limited responsibilities and State Departments of Agriculture
and other employing agencies run their own training programs, of a few months
duration, for suboperatives. The Ministry of Education has two vocational
schools which offer a two-year course in basic agriculture training for sub-
operatives; however, they are required to complete one additional year at an
AI (after 2 years service) to become operatives. There is no problem with the
supply of such recruits at the present time.
Problems of Operative Training
9.        Student enrollment at the training institutes (AIs), as a percentage
of capacity, has lagged behind construction of AIs during the period 1967-76
and in 1976 the five operational institutes had only 49% of their places filled.
This is due to a combination of the following factors:
(a) Entrance to the institutes is through scholarships offered by prospec-
tive employers. Thus, Federal and State Departments of Agriculture,
as well as other statutory bodies, recruit trainees and send them to
the institutes for certificate training. Both financial limitations
on the number of scholarships and administrative delays in recruit-
ment of trainees by federal and state DOA have affected the number
of trainees being sent to the institutes;
(b) lack of amenities, e.g. housing, transport, etc., and the ineffectual-
ity of many field extension staff contribute to their effectiveness
and some dissatisfaction;
(c) the minimum entrance requirement for the course is the lower Educa-
tion Certificate with credits in national language, general science
and mathematics, but this same examination achievement qualifies
school children to advance in the school system to form IV. By
leaving school to enter the training institutes, trainees sacrifice
their opportunity for further scholastic advancement. This acts as
a strong disincentive to those considering entering the training
institutes, and contributes to a high wastage amongst students; and
(d) at present there is no avenue of advancement within the service
available to ATs beyond the level of senior technical assistant.
This low career ceiling is a disincentive to those considering
employment with the DOA and causes considerable loss of trained
staff to employment elsewhere in the agricultural industry.
10.       Despite a three-year training course at the institutes, there is
frequent criticism of trained operatives within DOA on the basis of insuf-
ficient technical knowledge or farming skills to provide farmers with the
help they need. While this problem is not solely the responsibility of the
training institutes, training activities are limited at present for the
following reasons:
(a) generally, teaching staff are young with limited, if any, field
extension experience and little or no training in agricultural
teaching methods;



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(b) posts at the training institutes are not sought after by more
experienced staff, as lecturers at the institutes do not qualify
for various allowances which supplement the salaries of equivalent
staff working in the field, and staff at the institutes feel them-
selves to be out of the main stream for promotional opportunities;
and
(c) some specialization is possible in the third year of the course to
tailor the instruction to the needs of the larger employers, but
the total course covers a very wide range of subjects and generally
resembles a diluted degree course in an attempt to meet the require-
ments of all agencies. A review of the curricula for this three-
year training on a more functional basis would permit a shortening
of the course (while still permitting specialization in the latter
part of the course) - particularly in respect of the very large
number of hours spent by students in practical work.
Demand for Operative Training
11.        The projected requirement of new operatives to meet the needs of
the DOA and all other government agencies during the TMP totals 8,700. The
largest projected needs (excluding the Fisheries Development Program) are in
DOA, Division of Forestry, FOA, RISDA, FELDA and MARDI in that order.
12.        Students already enrolled at the institutes who will graduate in
1977, 1978 and 1979 total 769. Assuming a full intake of 1,680 in 1977 (who
will graduate in 1980) the total number of new operatives produced by the
end of TMP will be 2,449 which is short of the projected demand of all
agencies and all institutes. However, the DOA has given its assurance that
additional operatives will be made available to meet project requirements.
At a meeting of the National Development Planning Committee in October 1975,
it was agreed that necessary funds would be provided for the continuing
expansion and development of AI, but there are no new AIs under construction,
and any planned now would have little impact on the number of new staff
produced within the lifetime of this project. The DOA is aware of the
deficiencies and problems of operative training at the AIs and is taking
action to remedy this shortfall.
In-Service Training
13.       Assistant Technicians (ATs).  Prior to 1966, the certificate course
was of only 18 months' duration with a lower entrance requirement than the
present course; thus all technical assistants with more than eight years of
field service have rather limited background training. Rapid advances in
agricultural technology have meant that many of the existing field staff do
not have sufficient technical knowledge to fully understand the biological or
agronomic principles underlying the recommendations they pass on to farmers.
14.       The in-service training of ATs has received relatively little
attention for the following reasons:



.ANNEX 5
Page 6
(a) of the DOA's six training institutes, five have only become opera-
tional during the last nine years as follows:
Bumbong Lima - Pelau Pinang  1967
Kuala Lipis  - Pahang          1971
Parit        - Perak          1973
Ayer Hitam   - Johore          1974
Besut        - Trengganu       1976
In order to meet the growing demand for additional operatives, the
AI have concentrated on preservice training and have performed
little in-service training; and
(b) the nature of the field extension agents' job has been oriented
towards regulatory functions. They were able to perform these
duties without up-to-date technical knowledge, but now major
emphasis would be focused on agricultural extension work.
15.       Supervisory Level.  Supervisory staff have diploma or degree
qualifications but, due partly to the nature of their responsibilities and
poor communication between research and extension at district and field
levels, their knowledge of recent advances in crop and livestock production
technology is not always up to date. In addition, while diplomas or degrees
in agriculture qualify most supervisory staff for entry to the posts they now
hold, their supervisory and administrative responsibilities require skills
for which they have generally had very little training. Supervisory staff
would therefore benefit from training in management skills and from regular
contact with research workers so that they are made aware of research work,
and become skilled in identifying field problems that existing research
expertise could solve.
TRAINING PROPOSALS
Teaching Staff at AI
16.       The following actions would be taken to improve the standard of
teaching at the AI.
(a) Conditions of Service. Conditions of service of AI staff are
being reviewed to see what action is required to make teaching
positions at the AI more attractive career posts.
(b) Teaching Methods. Senior teaching staff from the AI would be
assisted to attend training courses at UPM in adult teaching
methods and skills of teaching practical agriculture. In addition,
the Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) would have a continuing respon-
sibility for increasing the effectiveness of teaching at the AI
and conducting in-service training courses.
(c) Extension Experience. Provision would be made to ensure that
staff who teach field-oriented subjects at the AI have first-
hand field experience.



ATNNEX 5
(d) Involvement in Field Programs. Teaching assignments at the
AI would be arranged so that staff have free days on a regular
basis so that they can assist with in-service training of
extension staff in in the field in a subject matter specialist
capacity.
In-Service Training of Field Staff
17.       In-service training of extension staff would be conducted in the
field by supervisory and subject matter specialist staff at regular monthly
training sessions. However, in addition, there is a need for training to
upgrade staff trained prior to 1966 (who received only 18 months of basic
training) and refresher and specialized training for all extension staff.
The need for special short courses is expected to increase to keep staff
abreast of technical advances, new policies and new demands from farmers.
18.       The present capacity at the AI (see para. 6) could be used immedi-
ately for this training on an ad hoc basis. Teaching staff and preservice
students at the AI would benefit from having experienced ATs as part of the
student community. However, the numbers of staff requiring in-service
training exceeds the AI capacity to accommodate them. Special institutions
(Regional Extension Training and Development Centers, RETDCs) would therefore
be established under the project, whose primary function would be to provide
in-service training of field staff.
RETDC
19.       Two RETDCs would be constructed at the start of the project, the first
at Titi Gatong-Perak and the second at Telaga Batin-Trengganu./l Two more
would be financed under the project, but their construction would be delayed
until the effectiveness of the first two had been assessed and a thorough
study made of the staff training needed by other agricultural agencies,
e.g. FOA, FELDA, FELCRA, Bank Pertanian, State Development Corporation, etc.,
to determine what kind of training could best be given at the RETDC.
20.       Each RETDC would have residential accommodation for 40 students,
with a small library and conference room, classrooms, a home economics unit
for formal courses, and a farm demonstration unit to assist with practical
instruction on livestock, farm machinery, etc.
21.       The RETDCs would provide broad background training of three types:
(i) basic agricultural science and crop technology; (ii) specialist training
in such fields as soil management, conservation and reclamation, seed produc-
tion, livestock production, marketing; and (iii) operational and management
skills. Courses would include the following:
/1 Details of costs and facilities of the RETDCs are shown in Table 1
and in Annex 6.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
(a) farm management (records, business analysis, cash flows,
farm planning and capital appraisal);
(b) personnel management;
(c) project planning, monitoring and evaluation;
(d) report writing;
(e) public speaking;
(f) communications; and
(g) extension methodology.
22.       The RETDC would also provide a base for special seminars or work-
shops, e.g. to bring groups of subject matter specialists and research
workers together or to enable extension workers facing similar cropping
situations and problems to exchange views.
23.       The permanent staff of each RETDC would comprise one Supervisor
(SAO Grade), one Course Director (AO grade), one AO for Monitoring and
Evaluation, one for Communications, one to cover technical courses and
another the courses in management and operational skills, three subprofessional
instructors, and three technicians and supporting artisan staff to handle the
production of mass media materials, and to assist as required with other
aspects of the work of the RETDC (Annex 6, Part I, Section C, Table 1.1).
The permanent staff would form the core of the teaching staff at the RETDC,
but much of the teaching would be done by SMS, national and regional specialists,
and staff from MARDI, UPM, INTAN and other national agencies.
24.       Training of field staff is a federal function for which the Director
of Extension would be responsible. The ELU would cooperate in the preparation
of course material, curriculum development, and liaison between the RETDCs
and the agencies they serve.
25.       The training programs at the RETDCs would be highly flexible
to accommodate the variety of training,courses and the logistical difficulties
of getting students from a wide area of the Peninsula for short courses, and
arranging visits by staff who would supplement the permanent teaching staff
of the RETDC. The siting of the RETDC close to, or adjoining, existing
MARDI stations where possible would facilitate sharing of scarce specialized
staff; and joint use of facilities would be more economic. Sufficiently
senior and experienced officers would be appointed as Supervisors of RETDCs
in order to handle the administration and maintain the necessary liaison with
state extension services and agencies outside DOA. Supervisor posts would be
at senior grade level.
26.       To promote coordination between the RETDC, the state extension
services, and the research institutions, a Management and Curriculum Committee
would be established for each RETDC. The committees would comprise:



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(a) the Director of Extension;
(b) the Director of Training;
(c) the Supervisor of the RETDC;
(d) the State Directors of Agriculture in the region;
(e) a representative of MARDI;
(f) the Head of ELU; and
(g) representatives of agencies which might be served by the RETDC,
e.g. FOA, FELDA, RISDA, etc.
27.       The Committee would have two tasks:  to decide on policy and manage-
rial issues to set a framework for the RETDC Supervisor, i.e. allocation of
space at the RETDC for different agencies and different training programs -
and to approve curricula and budgets for training programs. Subcommittees
made up of state extension workers, research specialists and staff of the
ELU, RETDC, ESC system would study the type of courses needed for the region
and course content. The presence of the Director of Extension (DOA), the
Director of MARDI and the Head of the ELU on the Management and Curriculum
Committees would facilitate integration between the RETDC courses and field
requirements.
Training of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs)
28.       Thirty-two new SMSs would be appointed under the project (see Annex 1).
Scholarships are included in the project to enable serving officers to attend
graduate courses such as plant protection, soils, agronomy, extension and farm
management. New recruits would receive appropriate practical training
followed by work with existing SMSs in the same area of specialization.
SMSs would continue to participate in study visits inside Hlalaysia and abroad
as appropriate. The work of the SMS and the scholarships provided for their
training are described in Annex 1.
Management Training
29.       The following measures would be taken to train supervisory staff.
(a) State and district level supervisory staff would receive training
in personnel management, finance, administrative management, and land
use planning for agriculture.
(b) The project includes fellowships for short training visits to
enable state and district extension officers to see how extension
programs are operated in other countries as well as fellowships
for specialized graduate and postgraduate training.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Summary of Fellowships
No. of
Category            fellowships       Man-years
Postgraduate              24                48
Undergraduate              18               72
Short courses )250                          46
Study tours
Total                 292              166



ANNEX 5
Page 11
2. SABAH
BACKGROUND
Staff Numbers
30.       The numbers of trained agricultural staff employed by DOA are shown
below (DOA staff employed by the Farmers' Associations are shown separately):
Agricultural Staff
Rank                           FA         DOA      Total DOA
Professional                  1          13           14
Subprofessional              15          22           27
Operative                    13          42           55
Suboperative                 27         105          132
Home Demonstration Section
Subprofessional               -           2            2
Operative                     1          11           12
Suboperative                  1          67           68
31.       The project calls for an additional 100 JAA, 25 AA and 4 AO to
strengthen the extension service.
Training Institutions
32.       Professional and Subprofessional.  Sabah relies upon UPM at Serdang
in the Peninsula to provide degree and diploma level training. UPM will be
able to produce sufficient graduates and diplomates to meet Sabah's projected
needs during the TMP.
33.       Operative Level.  The Agricultural Vocational School (AVS) was
established in 1974 at Timbang Menggaris on 2,600 acres of land of which only
400 acres have so far been developed. The school has fine new buildings with
hostel accommodation for 160 men and 24 women students, and provides a three-
year, certificate-level course which comprises 2,500 hours of practical
instruction out of a total of 3,250 hours. Student intakes have been well
below the 60 per annum capacity of the school - the present student body
comprises 34 first year, 48 second year and 30 third year students (including
20 women).
34.       The site of the AVS is remote from essential amenities such as
schools and clinic, and has no telephone connection. The road to the school
from Kota Balud is of a poor standard (although some repair work is in progress)
and these factors have made it difficult to recruit and retain good teaching
staff at the AVS. Also, housing is needed at the institute for junior staff.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
35.       The Principal of AVS is, at the same time, the State Agricultural
Training Officer. The duties of both jobs, and the lack of telephone communi-
cation with the AVS, require the Principal to commute constantly between
Kota Kinabalu and Timbang Menggaris.
36.       Suboperative Level.  The Agricultural Training Center (ATC)
has capacity for 60 students and is situated on land adjoining the Agricul-
tural Research Station at Tuaran. At present it is being used to provide
nine-month training courses for JAAs, JHDs and AHDs, who, in the past, were
recruited directly into the extension service without prior technical
training.
37.       The ATC buildings are old and in need of modernization; laboratory
equipment and teaching aids are very limited. Although the ATC is well
sited in relation to the research station, no land is available for the
expansion of the ATC or for additional staff housing to enable the ATC to
increase its contribution to training activities. New in-service training
facilities would be added to the AVS at Timbang Menggaris to provide a
combined in-service and preservice training complex.
38.       Rural Training Centers.  There are two Rural Training Centers for
farmers, one near Kota Balud, and the other at Danmai in Kudat District.
These offer three 12-week courses per annum in general agriculture for young
farmers who are selected by the district AO. The buildings of these two
centers are old and cramped and require renovation and upgrading.
39.       Research Training Centers.  There are simple teaching facilities at
two special crop research stations, one at Ulu Dusun for oil palm and the
other at Quoin Hill for cocoa; Ulu Dusun has a hostel but Quoin Hill does
not. The need for in-service training of extension staff in special crop
technology makes it necessary to upgrade these facilities and add hostel
accommodation at Quoin Hill. These facilities would also be available for
farmer training.
40.       Teaching Staff.  Problems of qualified teaching staff pervade all
agricultural institutions in Sabah. Almost all existing staff of the AVS
and ATC are newly qualified, but have no formal training in teaching methods
or field extension experience. The posts of Director of the ATC and RTC, and
senior lecturer positions at the AVS should be filled by graduates rather
than by diploma holders as at present. Efforts to recruit graduates from the
Peninsula have been unsuccessful, so until sufficient DOA staff can be
trained for these positions, it is planned to recruit contract officers from
the private sector and to send suitably qualified DOA staff for further
training. During the TNIP, 9 graduates and 13 diploma holders are expected to
return from overseas training and some of these will be appointed to teaching
positions.
Rural Training - Home Economics
41.       The purpose of home economics in rural areas is to show families
various ways of improving their homes by teaching them skills such as sewing,
elementary tailoring, cooking, child care, hygiene, nutrition, family planning



ANNEX 5
Page 13
and home economy. Home Demonstrators (HD) are sent to the various villages
throughout the State to organize short courses of six weeks' duration,
for a minimum of 25 students. Materials and equipment for the students
are supplied by the Department.
42.       HDs have no transport themselves and have to borrow vehicles from
the District AO when they can, thus they waste much of their time walking
long distances or waiting for buses. Shortage of transport also hampers
adequate supervision of their work. Housing and transport would be provided
under the project.
43.       Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Training.  In-service training
for veterinary staff is provided at the veterinary stations at Kepayan and
Sebrang, each having one classroom and residential accommodation for 12
students. In the past six months, preservice training for new junior staff
and in-service training of serving officers have been conducted by veterinary
staff at these centers. In addition, the DOA would expand facilities for
poultry training at Likas and Tawau, and at Tuaran for piggery training.
In the past, academic levels of trainees have varied considerably and staff
shortages in the field have limited the extent to which staff have been
available for short upgrading courses. Future demand for new operative level
staff should be met by the output of trainees from the AVS who have specialized
in livestock during their third year. These recruits will receive further
training in veterinary medicine before being posted to the field.
Training in Nonagricultural Skills
44.       Few DOA staff have had training in management skills and a weakness
in management is also common in the FAs (see Annex 2); at present FAs are
managed by diploma level staff who have had a general agricultural training
but very little preparation for the administrative duties and management
decision making which their positions entail. A similar situation exists in
the Padi Board. There is, therefore, an urgent need to provide:
(a) in service training in extension and communication methods for
all field staff;
(b) training in management for supervisory staff of the extension
service, FA and Padi Board managers; and
(c) study visits for senior extension staff to countries with well
developed extension systems.
Training of Tractor Operators
45.       DOA and the Padi Board employ several hundred tractor operators,
most of whom have had no training in the proper care for, and use of, farm
machinery. No facilities exist in Sabah to provide instruction in tractor
operation and maintenance, though the need for this type of training is
sufficient to justify DOA establishing a special training program for it.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
TRAINING PROPOSALS
Agricultural Vocational Schools (AVS)
46.       A high priority at the AVS is to make it a more attractive place
for suitably qualified staff to reside. To this end, a telephone link with
Kota Balud would be installed and internal connections made to houses and
administrative buildings on the campus; campus roads would be improved, and a
small bus would be provided to travel daily in and out of Kota Balud to carry
patients to the clinic and children to school as well as collecting the mail
and bringing provisions for the AVS. Fifteen houses for junior staff would
be built to attract nonteaching staff to work at the school, and to increase
the operational effectiveness of the institution, a further 700 acres of the
school farm would be cleared, developed, and provided with the following:
additional teaching aids and equipment, one lorry, one four-wheel drive
vehicle, farm equipment and seven air conditioners. Details and costs
of these items are shown in Annex 6, Part I (Section C) and Part II
(Section E).
47.       An improvement in the teaching capability at the AVS (see para. 53)
would strengthen the preservice course and increase its output to meet the pro-
jected demand for new operative level staff. Necessary steps would be taken by
Government to ensure adequate selection procedures and availability of scholar-
ships to achieve full annual intakes at the AVS.
Agricultural Training Center (ATC)
48.       New facilities for the ATC would be constructed at the AVS so that
the campus at Timbang Menggaris would become a combined preservice and in-service
complex. The Principal of the AVS would be in charge of the complex to ensure
maximum coordination of use of teaching expertise and facilities; because of
its special role, teaching programs at the ATC would be administered separately,
with the Head of the ATC being responsible to the Principal for the organiza-
tion, planning and operation of ATC courses. The total cost of the new facili-
ties would amount to M$1,840,600 (Annex 6, Part II, Section E).
49.       The increase in the student population at Timbang Menggaris would
exceed the capacity of the present water supply; therefore, the project provides
for improving the water supply system.
50.       The present ATC facilities at Tuaran would be utilized for two
purposes: (a) additional accommodation for research staff, and (b) residen-
tial courses, seminars and meetings in specialist subject areas for which
research and headquarters staff would provide most of the instruction.
51.       Rural Training Centers (RTC).  Two staff houses, a hostel and a class-
room block would be built at each of the two RTCs, to supplement existing dilapi-
dated facilities which would receive essential repair. (Details and costs are
shown in Annex 6, Part II, Section E, Table 2.2.)
52.       Livestock Training.  One Division I house would be built at the
Sebrang Cattle Station to enable a full-time instructor to be posted to the
station.



ANNEX 5
Page 15
53.       Teaching Staff.  Scholarships would be provided in the project to
enable ten teaching staff from the AVS, four from the ATC, and the Principals
of the RTCs, to attend instruction on adult teaching methods, and skills for
teaching practical agriculture. Selected staff of the SELU would receive
specialized training in agricultural teaching methods, and would provide follow-
up assistance at the training institution in the introduction of improved
teaching methods and course design. Teaching staff at AVS, who have no field
extension experience, will assist extension workers for short periods. To
help staff improve the practical application of their teaching, M$110,000 are
included for teaching aids for the various training institutions.
54.       Training of Rural Women.  Twenty-three houses for EDs would be con-
structed at strategic field locations and designed so that they can easily
be used as classrooms for small groups of women. One four-wheel drive vehicle
would be provided in each district for use in support of home demonstration
programs, and 150 sewing machines would be included in the project for issue
to HD upon completion of their training. One scholarship is also included
for the further training in rural home development methodology of one senior
officer from the home economics section.
55.       Management Training.  Special courses would be provided for State
and district supervisory staff in personnel and financial management, and land
use planning for agriculture. Nine scholarships are included in the project
for FA managers to receive training in principles of business management.
56.       Training in Extension and Communication Methods.  A high priority
would be given to the training of supervisory staff of DOA in extension and
communication methods. The unused capacity at AVS would provide this training
until the new ATC is able to take over this function. The extension specialist,
provided under technical assistance (see Annex 1), would assist with the
planning and execution of this training, and would also be involved in follow-up
work in the field to help with the introduction of better extension methods.
Senior officers from the State extension service would benefit from fellowships
for overseas study tours to gain experience of improved extension systems.
57.       Training of Tractor Operators.  A training unit staffed by a profes-
sional level mechanization instructor, 2 AAOs and supporting staff would be
established which would visit the premises of larger employers of tractor
operators.
58.       There are no available staff within DOA at present with the necessary
skills to head this unit and the project would provide two man-years of technical
assistance for a farm machinery specialist who would lead this unit, develop
an effective training program, and train counterpart staff. Equipment for
the farm mechanization unit would include a four-wheel drive vehicle, tools
and teaching aids (Annex 6, Part I, Section C).
59.       Training Responsibility:  The training activities necessary to
strengthen the manpower capability of DOA will require the appointment of a
senior officer at headquarters, to be responsible for the detailed planning
and implementation of training programs. The post of Department Training



ANNEX 5
Page 16
Officer will therefore be created and a suitable officer appointed at the start
of the project. A position is already available within the DOA for this purpose.
60.       Summary of Fellowships:
Recipient                  Course              Man Years
Staff of Training Institutions    Teaching Methods          6
Specialist
Refresher             3
Senior Home Economist              Home Economics
Extension             2
Headquarter and Field              Management Training    4-1/2
Supervisory Staff
Extension Training
Visits                4-1/2
Farm Machinery Officer             Machinery
Instructions          2
Total         21



ANNEX 5
Page 17
3. SARAWAK
BACKGROUND
Staff Numbers
61.       Current grades and staff numbers of the DOA are shown in the
following table together with the new staff required under TMP, including
those to be added under the Project (shown in brackets).
New staff
Present   needed
Rank               Title                          Qualification    no.      by 1980
Professional       Agricultural Officer (AO)    Degree              60     121 (15)
Subprofessional   Agricultural Assistant (AA)  Diploma              80     138 (27)
Operative          Jr. Agri. Assistant (JAA)    Certificate        811   1,048 (89)
Training Institutions
62.       Professional Level.  In the past, no degree or diploma level training
in agriculture has been provided in Sarawak and recruits were sent by DOA to
UPM in the Peninsula for this training. In 1974 UPM took over the facilities
of the School of Agriculture at Semongok and commenced diploma level training
in agriculture which will provide a sufficient output to meet the needs of the
TMP. However, students will continue to be sent to the Peninsula for general
degree training in agriculture; for specialized training they would be sent
outside Malaysia. Forty-nine students selected by the DOA are currently
undergoing degree level training and these should be sufficient to meet the
new professional officer needs of the DOA during the TMP.
63.       Operative Level.  When UPM took over the facilities at Semongok, the
School of Agriculture was moved to temporarily to Tarat which has accommodation
for 80 students with limited teaching space and farm facilities. A general
course in agriculture and one in home economics are taught at Tarat: animal
husbandry and fisheries training is performed on-the-job in an unsatisfactory
ad hoc fashion. To meet the great demand for new staff, training of operatives
is currently confined to a one-year course which does not provide sufficient
preservice training for new JAAs. There is, therefore, an urgent need to
establish an agricultural institute similar to those in the Peninsula and
large enough to meet the demand for preservice training of operatives for the
agricultural industry in Sarawak.
64.       Young Farmers.  There are ten Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs),
throughout the State, eight of which offer a 14-week course for students who
have completed primary school, and two provide a one-year course for young
farmers with secondary education. The Young Farmer Training Program is



ANNEX 5
Page 18
suffering from insufficient follow-up by extension staff once the young
farmers have completed training, and consequently many abandon farming.
Demand for Operatives Training
65.       Projected demand for trained operatives will more than double the
present number by the end of the TMP. Almost half of the 1,048 new operatives
will be needed to meet the projected expansion of SLDB which requires staff
with an agricultural training for its expanding credit program.
In-Service Training
66.       Duties of extension staff include a number of purely regulatory
activities (see Annex 3). Lack of extension education experience combined
with limited preservice training (one year compared with three years for
similar staff in the Peninsula), and shortage of training facilities for
formal in-service training courses, gives rise to an urgent need to provide
these facilities and train field staff at all levels in specific technical
areas, and communications.
Training of Supervisory Staff
67.       Supervisory staff in the extension service have qualified for their
present positions either by gaining an appropriate academic qualification in
agriculture, or on the basis of their years of field service, but few have
received any training in management and supervisory skills. Furthermore, as
the emphasis of their work in the past has been on regulatory activities,
most supervisory staff have inadequate experience of the operation of effective
extension systems. There is, therefore, a great need for training of these
staff in supervisory skills, and giving the more senior staff opportunities
of gaining firsthand experience of effective extension systems.
TRAINING PROPOSALS
Training Institutions
68.       Agricultural Institutes:  A training complex comprising an Agri-
cultural Institute (AI) and an Rural Extension and Training Development
Center (RETDC) would be established at Semongok, 12 1/2 miles from Kuching,
where 300 acres of land are already reserved for this purpose adjoining the
chief Agricultural Research Center and University Pertanian's Sarawak campus.
The Al would have accommodation for 290 AI students plus accommodations for
30 in-service training resident students and would offer a two-year certificate
course with an annual intake of 125. The present one-year basic training
course at Tarat would be continued until the new AI is fully operational and
has graduated its first certificate students. Assuming the new AI would be
completed by 1979, the projected output of new operatives would be as follows:



ANINEX 5
Page 19
Year 1    Year 2    Tarat    Total Output /1
1977              -         -        76 /1         76
1978              -         -        76            76
1979            125         -         -             -
1980            125       120 /1                  120
1981            125       120                     120
1982            125       120                     120
1983            125       120                     120
Total                                     632
69.       No difficulty is foreseen in recruiting sufficient candidates with
Senior Cambridge Certificate for training as operatives to fill projected
annual intakes at the AI as, by 1979, it is estimated that over 2,000 boys
and 1,000 girls will be leaving secondary schools in Sarawak with the necessary
qualifications for entry to the AI.
70.       RETDC.  The siting of the AI/RETDC at Semongok would enable students
to benefit from practical instruction utilizing the specialized facilities of
the nearby agricultural establishments - the Research Center, brackish water
station, pig and poultry farms, fishponds, etc., and this would reduce the
investment necessary at the AI/RETDC in the establishment of an institution
farm. As the proposed new AI will be fully committed to preservice training
for a number of years to come, an RETDC would be constructed at Semongok. The
RETDC would be operated in conjunction with the AI, but it would be designed
and staffed to handle the in-service training for DOA as well as for other
agricultural agencies in Sarawak. The RETDC would have a capacity of about
30 students for 12 three-week courses per year (360 students per year).
Although use of RETDC facilities would be planned separately from the AI, the
two institutions would be able to share catering, library, auditorium, farm
and recreational facilities and the Director of the AI/RETDC campus would be
in charge of both institutions. Some benefits would also accrue from teaching
staff being able to serve both institutions. Details of facilities, equipment
and costs of the AI and RETDC are shown in Annex 6, Part I (Section C) and
Part II (Section E).
Teaching Staff
71.       Present teaching staff of the AI and the additional teaching staff
needed for the new, expanded AI - particularly in the specialized fields of
livestock and fisheries - would be available to assist with teaching at the
RETDC. Teaching staff requirements are shown below:
/1 Assuming a 5% loss from capacity intake.



ANNEX 5
Page 20
Al        Teaching staff requirement       Total staff
existing        New Al         RETDC          establishment
Principal (SAO)       -               1              -                1
AO                    1               -              2                3
LO                    -               1              -                1
FO                    -               1              -                1
AAO                   4               2              2                8
AVO                   -               2              -                2
AFO                   -               2                               2
HES                   1               1              1                3
AA                    2               2              1                5
AA(V)                 -               1              -                1
AA(F)                 -               1              -                1
AA(HE)                1               -              1                2
72.       Present teaching staff at the institute at Tarat will form the
nucleus of the teaching staff of the new AI, and will move to the new AI
as soon as the facilities are completed. New staff will be recruited for
the new teaching posts and those not having field experience will be posted
to the field for a period to gain first hand experience of field extension
conditions before they commence teaching. Also, all permanent teaching
staff of the AI/RETDC would attend a course in agricultural teaching methods
at UPM. Scholarships for this purpose are included in the project. The
siting of the AI at Semongok will enable the teaching staff to maintain
constant contact with workers at the Research Center, and will enable maximum
involvement of staff from UPM and the Research Center in the teaching of
special courses at the AI and RETDC.
73.       The curriculum and syllabuses for the new two-year course which
will be taught at the Al are being compiled for approval by the Departmen-
tal Education Board. The curriculum would provide ample practical training
to supplement classroom teaching, and every student would be expected to
undertake a farm project, including a complete set of input-output and
financial records, as part of the course.
74.       Subject Mfatter Specialists (SMS):  In addition to formal training
at the RETDC, which will concentrate on strengthening background knowledge
of agricultural technology, extension methods, etc. in the field, in-service
training of staff would be achieved by regular training of junior field
staff by their supervisors. Supervisors would be assisted by SMSs who would
act as a two-way communication channel between extension and research. Six
additional SMSs would be financed under the project who would be specialists
in one of the following: crop protection, hill rice agronomy, pepper agronomy,
horticulture, pisciculture and soils. Details of their operational functions
are described in Annex 3. Twelve man-years of scholarships are included in
the project for postgraduate studies for these SMSs.



ANNEX 5
Page 21
Supervisory Staff
75.       Extension Training.  Study visits are included in the project to
enable supervisory staff at headquarters and district level to travel to other
countries to see successful extension programs in operation. Supervisory staff
at district level would have opportunities to visit selected areas of the
Peninsula where successful extension schemes have been introduced. It is hoped
that, from these visits, staff would gain ideas and inspiration to devise
innovative approaches to extension in their own areas.
76.       Management Training.  Supervisory staff at district and headquarters
level would attend courses at the RETDC for instruction in basic management
skills - particularly in the fields of human relations and staff motivation,
work planning, and administration. A peripatetic team from INTAN would provide
this instruction and some follow-up to help supervisory staff with the analysis
of problems and planning solutions in their own office.
77.       Courses in business management would be arranged for managers of
farmers associations, padi board officials and DOA staff having responsibility
for business dealings. Suitable courses are currently offered by INTAN and
funds would be included in the project for transportation of selected candidates
to these courses.
Training Implementation
78.       The Assistant Director, Extension Education and Training Branch of
the DOA would be responsible to the DDA for the implementation of the training
component of the project (see Chart in Annex 3). The Principal of the AI/RETDC
would be responsible to the ADE for the operation of the AI/RETDC. A curriculum
committee, made up of representatives of the major employers in the agricultural
sector and chaired by the DOA, would meet at least semi-annually to approve
programs of courses at the RETDC and matters of policy regarding the use of the
RETDC facilities.
Agricultural Extension Communication
79.       Even when the number of extension staff has been increased and exten-
sion methods improved, access to rural communities will constitute a major
constraint to the communication of new ideas. This is because of the limited
road access together with time-consuming and/or expensive water or air transport.
Extension communication media have, therefore, a great potential role. The
Information and Communication Section of the DOA has limited facilities at its
headquarters in Kuching for the production of printed materials in the form of
agricultural booklets/leaflets. Its issues of the Farmers' Bulletin, which has
a circulation of 4,000 copies in each of four languages, are printed by commer-
cial firms. It has no production capability for radio programs, or visual and
audio-visual materials. A number of radio programs are now produced in colla-
boration with Radio and Television Malaysia, Sarawak, but these are on an ad
hoc basis and, of necessity, are only of a general nature. For maximum effect,
radio programs need to support field extension programs with some group listening



ANNEX 5
Page 22
arrangement in the target communities. Also, visual and audio-visual aids
and more printed materials have to be produced for use by the field extension
agents.
80.       For capital and operating costs, and for fellowships M$1,038,600 and
M$210,000 respectively are included in the project to strengthen the Information
and Communication Section of Sarawak's DOA. This will include Lhe establishment
of Radio Program Production and Visual/Audio-Visual Production Units, and the
strengthening of the present "Editorial/Publication Unit."
81.       The Radio Program Production Unit will produce regular and frequen,
radio programs in the state's four major languages (Bahasa Mala-sia, Iban,
Chinese and English). The component would include a small studf. 0 with necessary
equipment, additional staff and operating costs, and scholarship.s for four staf f
in program production techniques. There should be no problem in finding suii:able
broadcasting time for the new programs. There is no space for the new studio
within the existing DOA headquarters.  The studio would be sited on land near
the state complex which houses the DOA headquarters.
82,       The Visual/Audio-Visual Unit will produce visual materials (such as
flip charts, transparencies, photographs, etc.) and audio-visual materials (such
as tape-slides). These materials will be used by the field extension agents.
The staff of this unit could be housed in the office part of the recording
studio. In this way, the recording equipment can be shared, especially in the
production of tapes for the tape-slides. Additional staff and scholarships
have been included for this unit.
83.       The present "Editorial/Publication Unit" needs strengthening, espe--
cially in the form of proper printing equipment for in-house printing, and
technical editorial staff. This will enable the unit to produce more up-
to-date publications (booklets/leaflets, posters, technical and semitechnical
bulletins, information newsletter, etc.) for consumption by the field extension
agents. Purchase of printing equipment, appointment of addit-oral staff (one
AO, two AAOs, two Home Economics Supervisors, two AAs, four Translators and
one driver), operating costs and scholarships have been included for the project.
84.       The establishment of the Radio Program Production Uni-t, Visual/Audio-
Visual Unit, and the strengthening of Sarawak DOA's present Information and
Communication Section, will greatly help the field extension agents and other
DOA staff in carrying out their duties because their work will be supported
by various communication media/materials, such as radio programs, visual and
audio-visual materials and printed materials - an integrated communication
approach. Details of costs are shown in the staff supplementary tables
(Report No. 1555a-S-MA).
Summary of Fellowships
85.       Summarized below are the fellowships to be provided uwnder the
project for formal training courses at M.S. and B.A. level, fo- shcrt courses
in specialized fields, and for short study visits:



ANNEX 5
Page 23
Recipient                             Training                   Man-years
AI/RETDC Teaching Staff            Teaching methods                          8
Specialist refresher                      4
SMS                               M.S. course and study visits
to research centers                   12
Supervisory Staff                 Extension methods                          4
Management                                4
Extension                         Extension and Communication                8
Seeds Program Staff               See technology                             2
Operator Level and AAs and HOs   Extension Short Courses and
Study tours                             8
Soil Conservation Specialists    Soil conservation methods                   4
Total             54



ANNEX 5
Page 24
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
PILOT PROJECT TO DEVELOP THE USE OF TELEVISION IN
SUPPORT OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
BACKGROUND
86.       The effectiveness of the DOA Agricultural Extension Service is
limited by levels of training of the field extension staff, difficulties of
access to farming communities, and attitudes and awareness of farmers - this
is particularly so in the designated poverty areas of the country which
generally have the least developed communications infrastructure. While the
proposed Extension, Training and Seeds Project would provide for a substantial
increase in the numbers of accessibility, farmers' attitudes and lack of
understanding amongst rural communities will continue to present major
problems to the achievement of agricultural development goals in these
poverty areas.
87.       In this context the use of mass media in support of field extension
programs has a high potential value, and, with the successful introduction of
the Education Television Program, Malaysia is in a pre-eminent position (in
relation to most other countries in Asia and Africa) in that television
receivers are now established in schools in rural areas in all parts of the
country. While the prime purpose of these television sets is now, and will
continue to be, for use for in-school education, at the same time they offer,
at marginal costs, a means of testing and evaluating the use of this powerful
medium in support of rural development initiatives. Most important amongst
rural development activities is the development of agriculture, but more
experience in the use of television in support of agricultural extension is
needed before a large scale program can be launched. Recent projects in
India and Japan have produced valuable information on the use of television
as a tool for farmer training, and also for assisting with the in-field
training of agricultural extension staff, and much of this experience would
have relevance in Malaysia. The well developed agricultural broadcasting
unit of radio Malaysia provides an excellent base from which a unit for the
production of agricultural television programs could be developed, and
officials of the Ministry of Education and its Educational Media Service
(EMS) are willing to cooperate with advice and assistance in the development
of programs to utilize the existing television broadcasting and receiving
equipment for broader rural development purposes.
PROPOSAL
Pilot Project
88.       The Extension Training and Seeds Project would include a component
pilot project to develop the use of television in support of agricultural
extension. The Pilot Project would have the following objectives:



ANNEX 5
Page 25
(a) To test the effectiveness of different types of television programs
on farmer audiences in different farming environments;
(b) to test methods of involving field extension staff in organized
farmer viewing sessions as a feature of specific extension programs,
and
(c) to study ways in which television could be used as a means of
supporting in-field training of extension staff.
89.       For the purposes of the Pilot Project a number of pilot areas would
be selected in different parts of the country (including one each in Sabah
and Sarawak) which would be representative of different farming environments,
but which would be reasonably accessible for the purpose of monitoring and
evaluation. Within these pilot areas DOA extension staff would receive
special instruction so that they become fully aware of the objectives of the
Pilot Project and can participate as required in the necessary field work.
90.       A current constraint to the extensive use of television in support
of rural development programs is the availability of broadcasting time.
However, for the purposes of the Pilot Project, 40 minutes of air time would
be allocated on three days a week, and additional air time would be available
during school holidays and at weekends. Special allowances would be necessary
for participating field extension staff who would be expected to work during
weekends with farmer viewing groups. If the results of the Pilot Project are
positive and a much wider use of television in support of agriculture and
other rural extension programs is found to be justified, an expansion of
television broadcasting capacity would be required. However, this would not
form a part of this project.
Program Production
91.       A production team would be established which would comprise two
Producers (AO level), two Assistant Producers (AA level) and two Script
Assistants (AT level). This team would be attached to the Development and
Agriculture Division of Radio Malaysia which already has very considerable
experience in the production of agricultural programs for radio, and has
already begun producing general agricultural programs for television. Only
a small amount of equipment would be necessary, for the purposes of the Pilot
Project, to supplement what this Division already has. The Development and
Agriculture Division would designate one senior officer to organize and
administer all program production work. Two man-years of fellowships are
provided in the project for the training of Producers outside Malaysia; this
would be supplemented by supervised on-the-job training conducted by staff of
the National Broadcasting Training Center.



ANNEX 5
Page 26
Evaluation
92.       An evaluation team would be established from existing staff within
ELU which, while conducting evaluation work, would maintain close liaison with
the program production team and with field extension officers responsible for
extension work in the selected pilot areas. In addition, UPM may be able to
assist with this evaluation work.
Planning and Administration
93.       The Pilot Project described above would be an entirely new venture
which would require maximum possible communications between DOA, ELU, Ministry
of Education, EMS, Radio Malaysia and State Extension Offices of the States
in which pilot areas are selected. A planning and liaison coamittee has
been established which would have the responsibility for the detailed planning
and administration of the Pilot Project. This committee has the following ex
officio members who would have administrative responsibility for the Pilot
Project.
Director General of Agriculture
Representative of Radio Malaysia (RTM)
Director EMS, Ministry of Education
Head of ELU
Representative of the Ministry of Agriculture
In addition, the following, or their representatives, would have ex-officio
membership of the committee for information and advisory purposes:
Directors General of Veterinary Services, Fisheries, Drainage and
Irrigation, MARDI and the Rice Research Institute, and the Chairman of
the Land Development Authority, RISDA and FELCRA.
Implementation
94.       During the first year of project implementation staff for the Pilot
Project would be selected and trained, pilot areas selected, and detailed
plans prepared. Program production and the training of field staff in
selected areas would be carried out in year two so that actual broadcasting
could commence in year three. Details of staff, equipment and costs of the
Pilot Project are shown in the supplementary report No. 1555a-s-MA.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Subproject: Summary Implementation
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    Total
Buildings
Academic/communal /a                 13      25       12        1        1        52
Boarding facilities /b                5       6        2        1        1        15
Farm buildings                                        12                          12
Quarters/staff housing               51      70       33        6        1      161
Recording studios                     1                                            1
Total                                                                      241
Equipment
Tape recorders                        2        7      19        1       15       44
Speakers                                      4                                   4
Studio consoles                               1                                    1
Microphones                                    6       2        1                  9
Projectors                                            24                20       44
Screens                                               17                15       32
Cameras                               1       2                 2                 5
Printing machine                               1                                   1
Stitching machine                             1                                    1
Composing machine                              1                                   1
Other /c                              3       12       5        1                 21
Total                           6       35       67       5       50       163
Vehicles
Station wagon                                 1        1                          2
Pick-up trucks                                 1       2                          3
4-wheel drive                         a       9        6        5        1       29
44-seater bus                         2       3        1        1        1        8
Tractor                               3       3                 2        2       10
Lorry                                 1                                           1
Land Rover Trailer                    2       2                                   4
Total                          16       19       10       8        4        57
Staff
SAO                                   1       1        1        1       1         5
AO                                    2       5        4        3       3        17
AAO                                   1       4        5        5       3        18
LO                                                     I                          1
FO                                                     1                          1
AVO                                                    1        1                 2
AFO                                                    2                          2
HES                                   1       1        2                          4
AA                                            8        8        7       4        27
Supporting /d                         3      22       39      39       14       117
Total                           8       41      64       56       25      194
/a  Includes stores, faculty offices, administration, classrooms, dining
areas.
/b For students.
/c Includes turntable, headphones, editing kits etc.
/d Clerks, drivers, typists.



ANNEX 6
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Cost and Implementation Summary, Finance, and Disbursements /a
Part I:   Implementation Summary
Part II: Cost Summary
Section A
Table 1       -       Total Project Costs
Table 2       -       Total Cost - Peninsula
Table 3       -       Total Cost - Sabah
Table 4       -       Total Cost - Sarawak
Section B
Table BI      -       Total Cost - Extension
Section C
Table Cl      -       Total Cost - Seeds
Section D
Table Di      -       Total Cost - Technical Assistance
Section E
Table El      -       Total Cost - Training
Section F
Table Fl      -       Total Cost - Fellowships
Section G
Table 1.2     -       Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
/a Detailed analysis of project implementation and costing are
contained in the supplementary report No. 1555a-s-MA.



ANNEX 6
Part I
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Summary
Extension Implementation
1.        The project would represent a modest and realistic strengthening
of the existing extension services within the context of an established
and operational organization which is basically sound, but deficient because
of a shortage of staff, inadequately trained staff, and poorly equipped
staff. Over the five-year project period existing staff would receive
regular periodic in-service training, the number of field level staff would
be increased from 780 (a ratio of 1 to 1,300 families) to 1,340 (a ratio of
1 to 800 families), provision would be made for increasing and maintaining
the technical knowledge and communication skills of all existing and addi-
tional staff of the Department of Agriculture (DOA), as well as other agri-
cultural agencies through regularized institutional in-service training.
2.        The project would provide for an average 70% increase in field-
level extension workers (from 780 to about 1,360) in 12 states consisting of
almost 100 districts over the five-year project period; in Peninsular
Malaysia the increase would be phased out as follows: year 1 - 66 (13%
increase), year 2 - 78 (14% increase), year 3 - 124 (19% increase), year 4 -
114 (15% increase), and year 5 - 18 (2% increase); a total increase of 500 to
900 agricultural technicians (ATs) in 10 states or an average of 40 ATs per
state and less than 6 per district (see the supplementary report No. 1555a-s-MA).
Most of the 400 additional ATs in Peninsular Malaysia would be graduates of
the Agricultural Institutes (AIs) and would represent 15% of the projected
output during the project period. In an effort to increase Al output, the
DOA has already initiated a program to provide 100 scholarships in 1977 and
proposes to provide additional scholarships each year. In view of the
priority attached to the project and the modest numbers required, adequate
additional ATs would be available. Similar increases would occur in.Sabah
and Sarawak.
3.        IQ order to provide effective service to rural families in the more
remote areas, additional offices and housing would be required; therefore
32 Extension Subcenter (ESC) bases for extension would be provided in
Peninsular Malaysia (30 in the 10 states under the project plus 2 in Kelantan).
Sites for ESC's offices, stores and housing would be on existing state owned
lands and in some cases on lands yet to be acquired. ESCs would utilize
existing or modified public works department designs (JKR). Each ESC office,
store and housing complex would cost about US$70,000 in Peninsular Malaysia
(Annex 6, Part I, Section B, Table 1.3).



ANNEX 6
Part I
Page 2
4.        In Sarawak each of the 10 ESC office, store and housing complexes
would cost US$145,000. The additional cost in Sarawak is the result of
higher construction cost in East Malaysia and accommodations for a larger
number of staff to be based at each ESC. These ESCs are considered the
basic essential amenities required to enable field staff to live and work in
remote rural areas.  Additional offfices, stores and housing would also be
required in all states to upgrade facilities for existing staff.
5.        ESCs are neither a luxury nor an innovation but simply the basic
requirement for an effective and efficient distribution of minimum office,
store and housing needs to make extension services available to the majority
of farmers even in the poorer and less accessible areas. The federal and
state governments are committed to the proposed extension staff, facilities
and equipment to meet the minimum requirements of achieving the Third Malaysia
Plan (TMP) objectives of assisting the poorest rural sector of Malaysian
society. The project field staff (AT) increase of 560 under the project
represents only 54% of that proposed under the TMP (1,045 ATs).
6.        In addition the project would provide 101 man-years of fellowships
for upgrading extension management and technical staff in 13 states (including
Kelantan) (Annex 6, Part II, Section F). The project also provides five years
of technical assistance in extension organization, management, training and
communications (Annex 6, Part II, Section D).
Training Implementation
7.        Training, both preservice and in-service, is the key to strengthen-
ing and maintaining an effective extension service and is thus accorded a
high priority by the federal and state governments. The rationale for provid-
ing training facilities is sound, particularly for Sabah and Sarawak, which
because of their geographical and political isolation from Peninsular Malaysia
and the relative undeveloped nature of their agriculture and agricultural
infrastructure, require both adequate preservice and in-service training
facilities of their own.
8.        The Regional Extension Training and Development Centers (RETDCs)
are required throughout Malaysia to ensure adequate and regularized in-service
training on a continuing basis for DOA staff as well as agricultural staff of
other agencies. Initial priority would be given to in-service training of DOA
field-level extension staff (Vol. II: Project File, Annex 6, Section E). The
first RETDC would become operational late in year 2, thus in the interim period
in-service training would be conducted on an ad hoc basis at existing AIs.
9.        Four RETDCs would be strategically located in the Peninsula so that
training facilities are readily accessible to all states with a minimum of



ANNEX 6
Pcrt I
Page 3
travel. Construction of one RETDC would commence late in year 1, one in
year 2, and one each in years 4 and 5. The 4 RETDCs each with a resident
capacity of 40 would conduct a minimum of 10 three-week courses per year with
an estimated throughput of 2,500; also the facilities and staff would be used
to conduct short-term (one to several day period) specialized seminars and
workshops. At full development the RETDC would accommodate all of the 2,100
DOA service staff (1,700 existing plus 400 additional) for at least one
three-week course each year. The RETDCs would also provide specialized training
programs for staff of other agricultural agencies after DOA's requirements
are met. A manpower and training requirements study of other agricultural
agencies would be conducted during the first year of the project.
10.       The total capital cost for each RETDC in Peninsular Malaysia would
be US$500,000. Similar facilities at proportionally higher cost (reflecting
higher construction and equipment cost) would be provided in Sabah and Sarawak
in combination with the proposed Agricultural Vocational School (AVS) and Al
facilities.
11.       Provisions have been made for training teaching staff (Annex 5,
p. 10 and Annex 6, Part II, Section F). Alternative modes of training were
considered (Annex 5, pp. 7, 8 and 16). In view of political, financial and
technical considerations the RETDCs as proposed in the preparation report
were considered satisfactory.
12.       Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) staff and consultants would be the
primary source of course and instructional materials; however, they would be
supported by training specialists to be provided by the project and a Manage-
ment and Curriculum Committee described in Annex 5, pp. 8 and 9.
13.       The nature of agricultural services, particularly extension,
requires a continuous revision of course material, subject matter and curri-
culum design program based on current requirements; thus a predetermined and
fixed program and curriculum would not be appropriate. The project provides
34 man-years of extension fellowships for training, to plan, organize and
prepare RETDC training programs.
14.       The seed production system would be designed to operate on a viable
basis yielding a rate of return of at least 14% at full development. Detailed
cost and implementation schedules are contained in Annex 6, Part II, Section C.
Two man-years of technical assistance would be provided to assist with the
design of facilities, selection of equipment, preparation of tender documents
and construction of facilities during the early stages of the project (Annex 6,
Part II, Section D). Thirty-one man-years of fellowships would be provided
for training of seed production and processing technical staff (Annex 6,
Part II, Section F).



ANNEX 6
Part I
Page 4
15.       A "seeds fund" as working capital to purchase farmer outgrower
seeds is not required until year 3 (the first year of projected outgrower
production) in Peninsular Malaysia and the total amount of the "seeds fund"
would be less than US$200,000. In Sabah the required working capital or
"seeds fund" would be US$60,000.
16.       In Sarawak, which would eventually have a higher percentage of
farmer outgrowers, the "seeds fund" would be required from year 1 and would
amount to US$156,000 over the project period.



ANNEX 6
Part 01
Section A
Table I
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Protect Costs
(M$l000)
1978                 1979                 1980                 1981                 1982                Total                        I
Foreign              Foreign              Foreign              Foreign              Feign                 Foreign              Foreign
Local    exchange  Local      exchange  Local      exchange  Local      exchange  Local    enchange  Local         exchange   Total    exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Extension
Civil works          3,380.6  1,119.7    1,913.0  1,913.0    3,180.8   2,883.1   1,523.2  1,523.2           744.4    682.2   10,742.0   8,121.2   18,863.2         43
Vehiclen                        352.1              1,207.4               1,492.5              1,053.6                791.4               4,897.0    4,897.0       100
Equipment               14.3     55.8       133.8    533.5        77.4     305.8      144.4    573.9        59.0    235.8        428.9   1,704.8    2,133.7        80
Capital operating
costs                311.0                 25.7                346.1                 50.2                366.0              1,099.0                1,099.0
Staff
regular              749.1              1,511.2              2,700.2              3,617.8              4 130.0             12,708.3               12,708.3
subject natter
specialists         50.4               179.2                 315.0                447.4                539.6              1,531.6                1,531.6
Total Extension        4.505.4  1.527.6    3,762.9  3,653.9    6.619.5   4.681.4   5        .783.0 3. 150.7    5     1.709.4   26,509.8  14,723.0   41,235.8         36
Seed
Civil works            278.2      2.1       580.3    265.6    1,106.8       634.5     189.5      29.6      153.8               2,308.6     931.8    3,150.4        30
Vehicles                                             195.1                  214.8               184.3                107.8                 702.0       702.0      100
Equipment                                   117.5    470.1       292.8   1,174.2       84.4    338.5        52.1    209.7        546.8   2,192.5    2,739.3        80
Staff                    2.5                 14.6                 35.8                 66.9                 72.1                 191.9                 191.9
Working capital         97.5                124.4                125.0                159.6                 155.6                562.1                 562.1
Total Seed               378.2      2.1       836.8    930.8    1.560.4   2.023.5       500.4    552.4       405.1    317.7    3,609.4   3.826.3    7.435.6          52
Training
Civil worko          3,031.7  1,861.2    4,163.9  2,382.4    1,535.9        980.7     742.8    432.0       670.3    359.5   10,144.6   6,015.8   16,160.4          37
Equipoent               75.3    301.0       196.9    786.9       147.3      589.1      86.3    344.6        61.1    244.1        566.9   2,265.7    2,832.6        80
Vehicles                        434.0                465.0                 283.7                233.1                125.5               1,541.3    1,541.3       6O0
Staff                   59.7                293.0                715.1                940.3              1,208.1              3,216.2                3,216.2
Operating costs        110.9                557.4              1,017.0              1,337.6              1,500.3              4,523.2                4,523.2
Total Training         3,277.6  2,596.2    5,211.2  3,634.3    3,415.3   1.853.5   3.134.0  1.009.7    3.439.8    729.1   18,450.9   9,822.8   28,273.7              34
Technical assistance      44.0    253.5       132.3    760.4        73.7      422.5                                                250.0   1,436.4    1,686.4       100
Fellowships                     1,776.4              2,196.4                1,128.7               708.5                                    5,810.0    5,810.0       100
Total Bane Costs       8,205.2  6,155.8    9,943.2  11,175.8  11,668.9  10,109.6   9.417.4  5.420.8    9,612.2  2,756.2   48,820.1  35.618.6   84,438.7              43
Cootingenclen
Physical               669.1    465.8       723.3   1,005.1      656.1   1,059.0    292.7       607.2       190.8    361.3    2,532.5   3,498.4    6,030.9
Price                  986.4  1,032.9    1,741.7   3,025.4   3,111.4   3,813.9  3,558.9   2,620.1    4,394.4  1,701.7   13,792.8  12,040.0   25,832.8
Total            1,655.5  1,498.7    2.465.0   3.876.5   3.767.5   4.872.9  3.851.6   3.227.3    4.585.2  2.063.0   16,325.3  15,538.4   31,863.7              47
Total Federal Costs   9,860.7  7,654.5   12.408.7  15.052.3  15,436.4  14,982.5  13.269.0  8.648.1   14,197.4  4,819.2   65.145.4  51.157.0  116,302.4               44
ENTSNION OPERATING
COSTS
94.8                577.9                875.3              1,117.0              1.258.7              3.923.7                3.923.7
Contingencies
Physical                 0.4                  4.8                  8.2                 10.6                  11.9                 35.9                  35.9
Price                   21.8                130.5                277.3                437.5                613.8               1,458.3               1,458.3
Total                22.8                135.3                285.5                448.1                625.7              1,494.2                1,494.2
Total Operating Costs   117.0                 713.2              1.160.8              1.565.1               1.884.4              5.417.9               5.417.9
Total Project Costs   9,977.7  7,654.5   13,121.9  15,052.3  16,597.2  14,982.5  14.834.1  8,648.1   16,081.8  4,819.2   70,563.5  51157.0  121,.727.8               42
Note: The extension elenents of this project inclode local and foreign exchange enpenditures financed by a US$1.31 million allocation under the extension
coeponent of Loan 1115-MA; the foreign exchange anapnts to US$425,000 for civil works and US$885,000 for eqoip-ent.  Refer to Malaysia Treasory letter of
March 23, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Part II
Section A
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Costs. Peninsula
(x$' 000)
1978               1979                1980               1981                1982               Total                      7
Foreign            Foreign             Foreign            Foreign             Foreign             Foreign             Foreign
Local   exchange Local    exchange Local    exchange Local    exchange Local    exchange Local    exchange  Total    exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Extennion
Civil workn         1,963.2            1,234.2  1,234.2    1,222.0   1,222.0   1,031.6  1,031.6     389.1   389.1    5,840.1   3,876.9   9,717.0       40
Vehiclen                       30.4              684.0                887.2              771.7               594.9             2,968.2    2,968.2    100
Equip-ent              8.2    32.9        52.0   208.1       50.4    201.0       77.1   308.6        50.2   200.5      237.9    951.1   1,189.0        80
Staff
regular            367.2               792.3             1,471.9           2,111.3             2,318.9             7,061.6             7,061.6
subject matter
specialists       37.8               140.7              249.2               364.9               451.8             1,244.4             1,244.4
Capital operating
costs                                   17.4               25.9                32.6                35.8               111.7               111.7
Total Extension      2.401.9    63.3   2.502.2  2.126.3   3.498.7  2,310.2  4,225.9  2.111.9   3,978.9  1.184.5   16,607.6   7796.2  24.4_03.8           32
Seeds
Civil works          126.5               171.7    49.3      475.5    268.1       29.6    29.6                          803.3    347.0    1,150.3       30
Vehicles                                          107.8                75.7              184.3               107.8               475.6      475.6    100
Equipment                                 82.7   332.2      254.6   1,021.5      77.7   311.9        52.1   209.7      467.1   1,875.3   2,342.4       80
Staff                  2.5                14.6               35.8                66.9                72.1              190.9                190.9
Total Seeds            129.0               269.0   489.3      765.9   1.365.3    173.7   525.8        124.2   317.5   1,461.8  2.697.9   4.159.2         65
Training
Civil works          670.3   359.5       670.3   359.5                          670.3   359.5       670.3   359.5   2,681.2   1,438.0   4,119.2        35
Vehicles                      125.5               150.3                12.4              125.5               125.5               539.2      539.2    100
Equip-ent             42.7   170.7        58.5   233.7       14.7      58.9      42.7   170.7        42.7   170.7      201.3    804.7   1,006.0        80
Staff                 18.2               199.8              389.1               488.5               730.5             1,810.1             1,810.3
Operatisg costs                           87.4              211.8               270.9               397.4               967.5               967.5
Total Training         731.2   655.7       999.0   743.5      615.6      71.3  1.472.4   655.7   1,840.9   655.7   5.660.1   2,781.9   8.442.2           33
Fellowships                     840.1               910.1               560.0              489.8                                 2,800.0    2,800.0    100
Tochnical assistance    14.7   184.5        58.8   338.0       29.5    169.0                                              103.0    591.5      694.5    100
Total Base Costs     3.276.8  1.743.6   3.829.0  4.607.2  4.909.7   4.475.8  5.872.0  3.782.2   5.944.0 2,157.7   23.831.5  16.666.5  40.498.0           40
Co-tinge-cies
Physical             284.0    89.9       237.5    372.3    219.9    487.6   205.6    423.0          138.0   286.2    1,085.0   1,659.0   2,744.0
Price                348.4   143.1       586.0  1,029.7   1,178.1   1,490.9  1,934.9   1,582.3   2,323.5  1,223.7   6,370.9  5,469.7  11,840.6
Total             632.4   233.0       823.5  1.402.0   1,398.0  1,978.5  2.140.5  2.005.3   2,461.5  1,509.9    7.455.9   7,128.7  14,584.6         49
Total Federal Costs  3.912.2  1.976.6   4,652.5  6,009.2  6,307.7   6.454.3  8.012.5  5,787.5   8.405.5  3.667.6  31.287.4  23,795.2  55.082.6           43
EXTENSION OPERATING
COSTS                 25.5               265.6              479.3               608.4               733.1            2.111.9              2,111.9
Contingencies
Physical               0.2                 3.0                4.8                 6.1                 7.3               21.4                 21.4
Price                  2.8                47.8              129.4               219.0               329.9              728.9                728.9
Total               3.0                50.8               134.2              225.1               337.2              750.3                750.3
Total Operating Costs   28.5               316.4              613.5               833.5             1,070.3            2.862.2              2.862.2
Total Peninsula      3,940.7  1.976.6   4,968.9  6.009.2  6,921.2   6,454.3  8.846.0  5,787.5   9.475.8  3,667.6  34,149.6  23.795.2  57.944.8          41
Note:  The este-sion elements of this project include local and foreign exchange expenditures financed by a USS1.31 million allocatinn under the extension
conponeot of Loxn 1115-MA; tho foreign exchange amoonts to US$425,000 for civil works and US0885,000 for equipment. Refer to Malaysia Treasury letter of
March 23, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Part 11
Section A
Tal le 3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Toetl Costs. Sabah
(M$'000)
1978                 1979                 1980                 1981                 1982                Total                        1
Foreign              Foreign              Foregn               Foreign              Freig                 For-ign              Foreign
Local    exchange  Local      exchange  Local      exchange  Local       exchange  Local      exhange  Locol       exchange  Total       ochongo
CAPITAL COSTS
Extension
Buildings /
cidil works          271.1    208.9       366.4    366.4       468.5     406.3      238.3    238.3        62.2               1,406.5   1,219.9    2,626.9        46
Vehicles                        305.7                418.8                  578.1               255.0                188.5                1,746.1    1,746.1      100
Equipxent                1.8      5.5        25.4     99.5        22.0 -    84.9       14.6      54.9         5.4     21.6        69.2      266.4      335.6       80
Capital operating
costs                311.0                                     311.0                                     311.0                 933.0                 933.0
Staff                  190.6                333.4                457.9                566.6                 685.9              2,234.4               2,234.4
Total Extension          774.5    520.1       725.2    884.7    1,259.4   1.069.3       819.5    548.2    1,064.5    210.1    4,643.1   3.232.4    7.875.5           41
Seeds
Boildings /
civil works                               221.2    128.7       259.7      155.9     103.8                 99.2                 683.9     284.6       968.5       29
Vehicles                                               56.1                 112.2                                                           168.3       168.3     100
Eqoip=ent                                    23.0     92.3        25.7      103.0                                                418.7      195.3      244.0       80
Uorking capitol                                30.9                 36.5                  71.5                 12.7                151.6                  151.6
Total Seeds                                   275.1    277.1       321.9      371.1      185.3                111.9                884.2      648.2    1,603.9       40
Training
Civil works            918.5    572.5    1,134.6    658.1        310.7      248.6       72.5     72.5                          2,436.3   1,551.7    3,988.0        39
Vehicles                        281.6                 198.7                 107.6               107.6                                       695.5      695.5      100
Equipment               31.9    127.3        56.0    233.6        39.0      155.9      15.0      59.7        15.8     59.7       156.9      626.2      783.1       80
Operating costs        104.6                253.8                383.5                424.7                 453.6              1,620.2               1,620.2
Total Training         1.055.0    981.4    1,444.4  1,080.4        733.2      512.8     512.2    239.8        468.6     59.7    4,213.4   2.873.1    7.086.5         41
Fellowvhips                       306.3                 656.3                  78.7                78.7                                     1,120.0    1,120.0      100
Technical asnistance      14.6      84.5       36.7    211.2        14.7       84.5                                                 66.0      380.2      446.2      100
Total Bane Costs       1,844.1  1,892.3    2,481.4   3,109.7   2,329.2   2.116.4   1,509.3    906.7    1,644.0    269.8    9,809.7   8.254.9   18,04$6               45
Costingencies
Physical               125.5    186.2       181.2      278.6     111.3      252.4     40.6      102.7        14.0     40.5       472.6      860.4    1,333.0
Price                  198.9    308.8       383.8      763.1     545.2      854.6    402.0      457.4       608.2    172.5    2,138.1   2,556.4    4,694.5
Total               324.4    495.0       565.0   1,041.7      656.5   1.107.0    442.6       560.1      622.2    213.0    2,610.1   3.416.3    6.026.4          57
Total Capital Costs   2.168.5  2,387.3    3,046.4   4,151.4   2,985.7   3,223.4   1,951.9  1,466.8    2,266.2    482.0   12,419.8   11,671.2   24,091.0              48
EXTENSION OPERATING
COSTS                   61.8                149.8                226.2                250.6                 267.6                956.0                 956.0
Continoencies
Physical                 0.1                  0.2                  1.7                   1.9                  2.0                  5.9                   5.9
Price                    6.9                 27.6                 62.5                 91.7                 122.5                311.2                 311.2
Total                 7.0                 27.8                 64.2                 93.6                124.0                317.1                  317.1
Total Operating Costs    68.8                 177.6                290.4                344.2                 392.1              1.273.1               1,273.1
Total Sabah            2,237.3  2,387.3    3,224.0   4,151.4   3,276.1   3,223.4   2,296.1  1,466.8    2,658.3    482.0   13,692.9  11,671.2   25,364.1              46
Note:  The extension elenents of thin project inclode local and foreign exchange expenditores financed by a US$1.31 sillion allocation  -nder the extension
coxponent of Loan 1115-MA; the foreign exchange amoonts to US$425,000 for civil works and US0885,000 for eqoipment. Refer to Malaysia Treasory letter of
March 23, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Part II
Section A
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Totai Costs. Sarawak
(MS '355)
1978                  199                   I1981                                       1982                Total                         I
Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign
Loal    exchange  L                hg   Local        exhag          Local  echange  Local        eochange  Local        exchange  Total       exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
Extenosion
Cicil  -or            1,146.3    910.8        312.4    312.4    1,490.3   1,254.8         253.3    253. 3       293.1    293.1    3,495.4   3,024.4    6,518.8           46
VehIcles                            9.6                 87.9                    40.9                 31.3                   8.0                  177.3       177.7      135
Equip-ent                 4.3      17.4        56.4    225.9          5.0       19.9       52.7    210.4          3.4      13.7       121.8      487.3       609.1       80
Scoff
-gular               191.3                 385.5                 770.4                 939.9               1,125.2               3,412.3                 3,412.3
subject natter
specialists         12.6                  38.5                  65.8                  82.5                  87.8                 287.2                   287.2
Capital oporatinp
costs                                         8.3                   9.2                  17.6                  19.2                  54.3                   54.3
Total Etteosion         1354.5    937.8         801.0    626.2    2,340.7   1,315.6   1,346.0    495.0    1,528.7    314.8    7,371.0   3.689.4   11.060.4                  33
Seeds
Civil  -orks             77.4       2.1       204.6      87.6       390.1      210.5       74.3                  74.3                 821.7      300.2    1,121.9        27
Equip-ent                                      11.8      45.6        12.5       49.7        6.7      26.6                              31.0      121.9       152.9       80
Vehicles                                                 31.2                   26.9                                                              58.1        58.1      100
dorking capital            97.5                  93.4                  88.5                  88.9                  42.9                 413.4                  411.2
Total Seeds               174.9       2.1       309.8    164.4        491.1      287.1      169.1      26.6       117.2               1,262.1      480.2    2,045.7         23
TraininR
Buildings!
civil works        1,442.9    929.2    2,359.0  1,364.8    1,225.2           732.1                                                3,227.1   3,026.1    8,053.2         38
Vehicles                                                116.0                  163.7                                                             279.7       279.7      100
Equip-ent                 0.7       3.0        82.4    329.6         93.6      374.3       28.6    114.2          3.4      13.7       208.3      834.8    1,043.8        80
Staff                    41.5                 109.0                 326.0                 451.8                 477.6               1,405.9                1,405.9
Operating costs           6.3                 216.2                 421.7                 642.0                 649.3               1,935.5                1,935.5
Total Training          1.491.4    932.2  2.766.6  1.810.4    2,066.5  1.270.1   1,157.2    114.2  1.111.3                   13.7    8            4.140.6   12.717.4        40
Fellowships                         560.0                 630.0                  560.0                140.0                                      1,890.0    1,890.0        100
Technical assistance       14.7      84.5        36.8    211.2         29.5      169.0                                                   81.0      464.7       545.7       100
Total Base Costs        3.035.5  2,516.6    3,913.9   3,442.2   4,927.8   3.601.8   2,662.3    775.8    2.776.9    328.5   17,290.9  10,664.9   27,955.8                    36
Contingencies
Physical                260.0    189.7        305.0      304.9      324.6      319.0       46.2      82.0        47.4      34.6       974.1      930.2    1,904.3
Price                   457.8    487.4        774.9   1,078.6   1,388.1   1,416.2   1,222.0    494.7    1,473.6    297.7    5,321.4   3,774.6    9,096.0
Total                717.8    677.1    1,079.9   1.383.5 17127   1            1780.2  1.268.2    576.7        2        332.3    6,295.5  4.704.8   11. 000.3          47
Total Capital Costs  3.753.3  3.193.7    4.993.8   4,825.7 6.640.5   5,382.0  32,0    1.352.5  4.                   2     .9 660.8 8 2,3S6.4  15,369.7   3i 1               40
EXTENSION OPERATING
COSTS                     7.5                 162.5                 169.8                 258.0                 258.0                 853.8                  855.8
Contingencies
Physical                  0.1                   1.6                   1.7                   2.6                   2.6                   6.6                     8.6
Price                     0.8                  32.5                  62.8                  92.9                 i16.1                 305.1                  305.1
Total                  0.9                  34.1                  64.5                  95.5                 118.7                 313.7                  313.7
Total Operating Costs       8.4                 196.6                 234.3                 353.5                 376.7               1,169.5                 1,169.5
Total Sarawak           3.761.7  3,193.7    4.075.8   4,825.7   6,874.8   5.382.0   4.284.0  1,352.5    4,679.6    660.8   24,755.9  15,i69.7   40.125.6                    38
Note:  The extension elenents of this project include local and foreign exchange expenditures financed by a US$1.31 nillio- allocation under the extensio-
conponest of Loan 1115-MA; the foreign exchange a-osntr to US1425,000 for civil works n,d US$885,000 for equipnent.  Refer to Malaysia Treasury letter of
March 23, 1977.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Subproject: Total Cost
(M$ 000)
1978                  1979                 1980                 1981                  1982                  Total                       %
Foreign              Foreign              Foreign              Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign
Local   exchange   Local   exchange   Local   exchange   Local   exchange    Local   exchange    Local   exchange    Total   exchange
Buildings/-ivil w-,z,;s    3,380.6  1,119.7   1,913.0  1,913.0   3,180.8  2,883.1   1,523.2  1,523.2               744.4    682.2   10,742.0   8,121.2  18,863.2          43
Vehi.--                                345.7              1,190.7              1,506.2              1,058.0                  791.4                4,892.0   4,892.0    100
Equipmeiit                     14.3     55.8      133.8    533.5         77.4    305.8       144.4    573.9         59.0    235.8        428.9   1,704.8   2,133.4        80
0per-1 inn  osts             405.8                603.6              1,221.4              1,167.2                1,624.7               5,022.7               5,022.7
Staff
Re,>J.j,-                  749.1              1,511.2              2,700.2              3,617.8               4,130.0              12,708.3               12,708.3
Su-lj<-  matter
ists              50.4                179.2                315.0                447.4                 539.6               1,531.6               1,531.6
-tal            4,600.2  1,521.2   4,340.8  3,637.2   7,494.8  4,695.1   6.900.0  3,155.1   7,097.7   1,709.4   30,433.5  14,718.0  45,151.5                   33
Contin,   ios
Phvsi .-                   340.5    173.2       216.1    452.7       338.6    558.1       185.8    396.4       102.7       222.2    1,283.7   1,802.6   2,986.3
Pri *                      643.4    335.0       955.1    896.4   2,349.4  1,881.8   3,030.9  1,754.0   3,784.2   1,034.6   10,740.2   5,901.8  16,642.0
Total cDnt ij,nicies         983.6    508.2   1,171.2  1,349.1   2,688.0  2,439.9   3.216.7  2,150.4   3.886.9   1,256.8   11,923.9   7,704.4  19.628.3                   39
Total C-sts A)             5,584.1  2,029.4   5,512.0  4            10,182.8  7,135.0  10,1167   5,305.5  10,984.6   2,966.2   4                 22,422.4  64,779.8       35
Note:  The extension elements of this project include local and foreign exchange expenditures financed by a US$1.31 million allocation under the extension
component ot Loan 1115-MA; the foreign exchange amounts to US$425,000 for civil works and US$885,000 for equipment. Refer to Malaysia Treasury letter
of M. ^  2 .. £977.
a o I
(D0' ZHH>
D0 0  



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Seed Subproject: Total Costs
(M$'000)
Foreign            Foreign             Foreign            Foreign            Foreign             Foreign               Foreign
Local  exchange  Local  exchange  Local   exchange  Local  exchange  Local  exchange  Local   exchange   Total   exchange
Civil works            278.2      2.1    580.3    265.5  1,106.8    634.5    189.5           29.6    153.8        -   2,308.6      931.8   3,240.4        30
Vehicles                  -        -         -      195.1        -      214.8        -      184.3       -      107.8        -      702.0      702.0     100
Equipment                 -        -      117.5    470.1    292.8  1,174.2    84.4    338.5           52.1    209.7    546.8  2,192.4   2,739.2           80
Staff                    2.5       -       14.6        -       35.8         -     66.9         -      72.1        -      191.9        -       191.9
WDrking capital         97.5       -      124.4        -      125.0         -    159.6         -      55.6        -      562.1        -       362.1
Total            378.2       2.1    836.8    930.7  1,560.4  2,023.5   500.4    552.4   333.6    317.7  3,609.4  3,826.2   7,435.6                  53
Contingencies
Physical              13.4      0.2      60.9     126.4     139.9    271.9      16.8      81.4       8.8      47.6    239.8    527.5        767.3
Price                 27.0      0.5    127.8    297.8    398.2    846.2    143.1    273.9    163.2           187.3    859.3  1,605.7   2,465.0
Total              40.4      0.7    188.8    424.2    538.1  1,118.1   159.9    355.3   172.0    234.9  1,099.1  2,133.2   3,232.3                  66
Total Project Costs  418.6        2.8  1,025.6  1,355.0  2,098.5  3,141.6   660.3    907.7   577.1    552.6  4,708.5  5,959.4  10,667.9                   57
tre
X  X 
o 
-'a'I



Par, TT
Section
Table Dii
MALAYSIA
NATITONIAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Totui lost-
(M$'000)
Man-      1978    1979    1980    1981    1982        Total  V<, Foreign
years                                                         Exchange
Peninsula
Extension                 2.00             169.0   169.0                        338.0
Seed                      1.50      84.5   169.0                               253.5
Subtotal            3.50      84.5   338.0   169.0                        591.5
Sabah
Extension                 2.00      84.5   169.0    84.5                       338.0
Seed                      0.25              42.2                                42.2
Subtotal            2.25      84.5   211.2    84.5                        380.2       8'
Sarawak
Extension                 2.50      84.5   169.0   169.0                       422.5
Seed                      0.25              42.2                                42.2
Subtotal            2.75      84.5   211.2   169.0                        464.7       85
Total               8.50    253.5   760.4   422.5                       1,436.4       b5
Contingencies - price                 75.4   226.5   125.7                       427.6
Total cost                           328.9   986.9   548.2                     1864.0
/a Foreign exchange costs only.



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Subproject: Total Cost
\ (Constant 1977 M$'000)
1978                 1979                 1980                  1981                 1982                   Total                      %
Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local  Foreign       Local  Foreigin         Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign
Exchange             Exchange             Exchange              Exchange              Exchange               Exchange             Excihange
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings/Civil works          3,031.7  1,861.2   4,163.9  2,382.4    1,535.9    980.7            742.8    432.0        670.3    359.5   10,144.6       6,015.8  16,160.4   37
Equipment                          75.3    301.0       196.9    786.9        147.3    589.1        86.3    344.6         61.1    244.1        566.4     2,265.8   2,832.2   80
Vehicles                                    434.0                465.0                 283.7                233.1                 125.5                  1,541.3   1,541.3  100
Additional staff                   59.7                293.0                 715.1                940.3               1,208.1               3,216.2                 3,216.2
Total                     3,166.7  2,596.2   4,653.8  3,634.3   2,398.3  1,853.5    1,796.4  1,009.7   1,939.5              729.1   13,927.2    9,822.9  23,750.1   41
Contingencies
Physical                       314.5      292.4      446.0    426.0        175.7     229.0       87.3    129.4         76.2      91.5     1,099.7      1,169.5   2,269.2
Price                          381.8     407.6       921.6  1,001.1       714.8      793.5      662.4    520.0       901.0    479.8       3,901.6     3,202.0   7,103.6
Total contingencies         696.3     700.0   1,367.6  1,427.1         890.5  1,022.5        749.7    649.4       977.2    571.3    5,001.3        4,371.5   9,372.8   47
Total capital (A)         3,863.0  3,296.2   6.021.4  5.061.4   3,288.8  2,876.0   2,546.1  1,659.              2,916.7  1,300.4   18,928.5    14,194.4  33,122.9   43
OPERATING COSTS                   110.9                557.4               1,017.0              1,337.6               1,500.3               4,523.2                 4,523.2
Contingencies
Physical                          1.1                  5.6                  10.1                 13.4                  15.0                  45.2                    45.2
Price                            12.5                102.6                280.7                 521.6                 687.1               1,567.2                 1,567.2
Total contingencies          13.6                 108.2                290.8                 535.0                702.1                1,612.4                 1,612.4
Total operating (B)         124.5                 665.6              1,307.8               1,872.6              2,202.4                6,135.6                6 ggt5.
Total (A+B)               3,987.5  3,296.2   6,H87.0  5,061.4   4596.6  2,876.0   4,4418.7  1,659.1   5,119.1  1,300.4   25,064.1    14,194.    3                         36
v- 0 lu 
-D r,  
~0    O



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Fellowships - Total Cost
(M$'000)
Man-  Number      1978       1979       1980        1981       1982    Total  % Foreign
years                                                                            Exchange
Postgraduate
Extension                  32      16       420.0      350.0      140.0      210.0               1,120.0
Training                    8       4        70.0      140.0       70.0                            280.0
Seed                        8       4        70.0      140.0       70.0                            280.0
Subtotal             48      24       560.0      630.0      280.0       210.0              1,680.0       100
Undergraduate
Extension                  40      20      560.0       560.0      140.0       140.0              1,400.0
Training                   16       8       140.0      280.0      140.0                            560.0
Seed                      16       8        140.0      280.0      140.0                            560.0
Subtotal             72      36       840.0   1,120.0       420.0       140.0              2,520.0       100
Short-term/study tours
Extension                  29    162        236.3      271.3      271.1      236.1               1,014.8
Training                   10      49        78.8       96.3       96.3        78.8                350.2
Seed                        7     39        61.3        78.8       61.3       43.6                 245.0
Subtotal             46    250        376.4      446.4      428.7       358.5              1,610.0       100
Total               166    292    1,776.4   2,196.4   1,128.7           708.5              5,810.0       100
Contingencies - price                         217.8      521.4      302.7       209.7              1,251.6      100
Total fellowship            166    310    1,994.2  2,717.8        1,431.4      918.2               7,061.6      100
r r t m
D  H-
o H C



ANNEX 6
PART II
Section G
Table 1.1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Loan Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Accumulated Disbursements
and Quarter                      US$ x 1,000 Equivalents
1977/78
1st
2nd                                      -
3rd                                     -
4th                                     -
1978/79
1st                                    200
2nd                                    500
3rd                                  1,000
4th                                  1,800
1979/80
1st                                  2,400
2nd                                  3,700
3rd                                  5,500
4th                                  7,700
1980/81
1st                                  8,900
2nd                                 10,100
3rd                                 12,000
4th                                 13,700
1981/82
Ist                                 14,700
2nd                                 15,400
3rd                                 16,200
4th                                 17,000
1982/83
1st                                 13,700
2aid                                18,400
3rd                                 18,700
4th                                 19,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Bene4Fits and Justification
Section A - Financial Results
1.        The benefits of the training and extension components of the
proposed project are difficult to isolate and quantify for financial analysis.
However, the benefits in terms of increased production and farm incomes would
be substantial enough to justify the project. The government crop production
centers (CPCs) are expected to become financially self-sustaining by full
development, eliminating the need for current GOM subsidies. The seed sub-
project thus produces benefits directly quantifiable for financial analysis.
2.        Estimates of seed production by the CPCs are shown in Section A,
Table 1.2. The calculations of the financial rates of return are shown in
Section A, Tables 1.4 and 1.5. Table 1.3 shows estimated revenues for
the CPCs.
3.        The following assumption has been made with respect to final distribu-
tion of CPC seed produced:
of total seed produced p.a., sales distribution is divided between
commercial sales, sales to GOM for subsidy schemes and a percentage
allowance for reject and damage sold on a consumption basis. The
percentages of annual distribution of total production are as
follows:
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982-2002
Commercial sales               35       40      45       55      65         75
Reject and damage              15       15      15       15      15         15
GOM subsidy schemes            50       45      40       30      20         10
Production Estimates
4.        Production estimates are assumed to rise from 1.0 ton/acre for padi,
maize, soybean and sorghum, and 1.3 tons/acre for groundnuts. These production
estimates are based on production levels presently being obtained at the exist-
ing CPCs. For Peninsular Malaysia, production levels will be 2,400 tons of
seed p.a., with padi the primary seed produced (2,000 tons p.a.), by full devel-
opment. These production levels are assumed to remain constant thereafter.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        In Sabah production levels will reach 430 tons p.a. by full develop-
ment, with padi and maize the primary seeds produced. In Sarawak production
by full d-'-lopment will be 175 tons p.a., with padi being the only seed
produced initially. Other seeds such as maize and groundnut will be phased
into -roduction once full development is achieved. (See Section A, Table 1.2
for estimated CPC production levels.) It is estimated that by full develop-
ment the CPCs will produce about 35 to 40% of the Malaysian requirement for
seeds (see Annex 4, paras. 61, 64, 65).
Prices
6.        The project is intended to reduce dependence on imported food
grains. As all seeds produced are therefore intended for domestic sale,
current Malaysian domestic farm-gate prices per ton of seed have been util-
ized for the financial analysis. All input prices used are current Malaysian
f.o.b. prices for foreign exchange goods, and current domestic prices for
local goods. Staff salaries have been costed in accordance with present GOM
salary scales for DOA employees.
7.        There is at present no set pricing policy for seed sales in Malaysia
(Annex 4, para. 74). The financial analysis has been intended to develop a
model by which the CPCs can become financially independent of present GOM
subsidies for seed production by full development. In accordance with proposed
GOM policy (Annex 4, para. 93) a 30% price premium has been added to prices
for seed sold on a commercial basis. This price premium begins in 1982 and
continues thereafter.
Results
8.       The estimated financial rate of return for the total seed subproject
is 14%. For the Peninsula's CPCs the calculated rate of return is 26%,
which shows the centers can become financially self-sustaining and eliminate
the need for present GOM subsidies.
9.        In Sabah and Sarawak there are at present no large-scale crop produc-
tion centers. The project is therefore providing infrastructure already present
in Peninsular Malaysia, leading to high short-run capital costs. Basic opera-
tional costs in Sabah and Sarawak are also much higher than in the Peninsula,
as basic inputs such as fertilizers, etc. are scarce and must be imported at
a higher cost. Transport costs within Sabah and Sarawak are higher than in
the Pan4rLsula, as these states do not have as well developed a road system
(in m_ny cases transport is confined to waterways).
10.       The result of these cost differences is a low financial rate of
return fo  the Sabah and Sarawak CPCs.  However, the analysis shows that, given
improved management and technology, both of which can be gained through opera-
tional e. .rience an  by transfer from the Peninsula, these CPCs can operate
at or above 100% cosL recovery in the future (see Annex 6, Part I, Section B,
Tables 1-6 and 1.7, C sh Flows for Sabah and Sarawak CPCs). The project is
providing the basic infrastructure for seed production, and once experience
has been gained, output can be augmented without increasing the capital base
of the CPCs. This operational experience will also lead to a reduction in
per ton operating costs.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
11.       Another factor supporting the establishment of CPCs is that locally
produced seed is cheaper than imported seed. The following table compares
the costs of imported seed to the cost of seed produced locally in Sabah and
Sarawak.
Costs per Ton of Seed
(1977 M$)
Locally produced seed /b
Imported seed /a                        Sabah         Sarawak
f.o.b./ton                 935          Capital Costs/Ton /c
Shipping and                               Civil works         108.79          177.31
handling costs           50              Equipment            27.41          24.16
Vehicles             18.90            9.18
Price of rice/ton       985
Subtotal            155.10         210.65
Operating Costs/Ton
General /d           62.00          66.80
Salaries            275.14         547.60
Field prod. costs  216.00          100.40
Payments to farmer
outgrowers        114.29         160.00
Subtotal            667.43         874.80
Total Cost/Ton /c  822.53        1,085.45
Full Development, Cost/Ton
Operating           533.94         699.84
Capital             155.10         210.65
Total          689.04         910.49
533.94         699.84
Savings Generated/Ton
(Imported seed) - (local seed)
Project completion 162.47         (100.45)
Full development   295.96           74.51
/a  Assuming f.o.b. price as determined for economic analysis (see Section B,
Table 1.8).
/b  Assuming 1982 cost per ton figures.
/c  Based on total amount of seed produced over 25 years estimated project
life (see Section A, Table 1.2 for estimated seed production). Cost per
ton = total capital cost/total seed produced.
/d  Includes depreciation.
/c  Project completion.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
12.       As the cost comparison shows, by project completion in 1982 it is
cheaper for Sabah and Sarawak to produce their own seed than it is to import
seed. Assuming incremental production increases by 1992, and no change in f.o.b.
price projections, the cost of locally produced seed is greatly decreased when
compared to imported seed. Again assuming sufficient transfers of management
skills and technology from Peninsular Malaysia, further cost reductions are
feasible at full development of the seed centers and with operational experience.
On-Farm Benefits
13.       The cost of locally produced seed for the farmers is substantially
less than that of imported seed. Assuming a premium price for HYV seeds
(see para. 7), on a I ha farm, a farmer will pay about M$17.00 for adequate
supplies of local seed (see Section B farm models: Tables 1.4 through 1.6) as
compared to about M$23.00 for adequate supplies of imported seed./l On a
statewide basis these savings would be considerable and would generate substan-
tial on-farm savings.
14.       The supply of seed available for local farmers will also be increased,
eliminating possible seed shortages that might occur if imported seed is not
readily available. These factors justify bearing the high short-run cost of
seed production in Sabah and Sarawak in anticipation of the long-run benefits.
Section B - Economic Analysis
General
15.       A summary economic analysis of measures to strengthen the national
extension services proposed under this project has been carried out using
available knowledge, to assess the economic viability of the project. Although
the benefits of such a project are not readily quantifiable,t2 an analysis has
been done to check that with reasonable assumptions a good rate of return can
be expected.
16.       Padi is the main crop and the primary seed that will be produced as
a result of the project, and hence is used as the base crop producing benefits.
The Peninsular Malaysian CPCs devote 83% of production to padi, with the
remaining 17% devoted to groundnuts, maize, soybean and sorghum. In Sarawak
/1 Assuming a 1 ha farm, an adequate supply of seed is approximately 55 lb.
/2 The extension and training components of the project yield no quantifiable
benefits in isolation. Benefits realized from these project components
would arise through increases in foodstuff production throughout Malaysia.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
the CPC will initially produce 100% padi, with other crops (groundnuts, maize,
etc.) being phased into production gradually once full development is reached.
In Sabah maize and padi are being produced in equal quantities for domestic
use, but the economic analysis is based on only main season wet padi.
17.       Indicative farm models showing increased production and inputs over
the project maturation period are shown in Tables 1.4 through 1.6. The
analysis is conservative in that only the main season wet padi crop is included
and most farmers also grow small areas of off-season and dry rice, or other
crops. Section B, Table 1.7 shows the increase in man-days of labor for the
Peninsula farm model (appropriate adjustments were made for the Sabah and
Sarawak farm models). The economic rate of return calculation is derived in
Section B, Table 1.1. All investment costs were aggregated from Annex 6, Part
II, Section A. Section B, Tables 1.2 and 1.3 show production levels of padi
in Malaysia for 1975 and 1968-75, respectively.
Production Estimates
18.       Total padi area cropped is expected to increase by approximately
200,000 acres in Peninsular Malaysia, 25,000 acres in Sabah, and 31,000 acres
in Sarawak by 1983. Per acre padi production is expected to increase from
present levels at an average rate of 3% p.a. giving yield increases as follows:
Peninsula - 1.0-1.34 tons/ac; Sabah - 1.16-1.56 tons/ac; and Sarawak - 0.66-
0.9 tons/ac resulting in annual incremental increases in padi produced of
approximately 260,000 tons in Peninsular Malaysia, 30,000 tons in Sabah, and
23,000 tons in Sarawak. These yield increases are feasible given that:
(a) the seed centers produce sufficient quantity and quality HYV seeds
for use by farmers;
(b) farmers will have ready access to these HYV seeds;
(c) the increase in extension services under the project will provide
rural families with information about improved crop husbandry so as
to maximize yields using HYV seeds.
Should a controlled water supply become available, these yield estimates
could be expected to increase further. Nevertheless, substantial increases
in yields are attainable by improved crop husbandry and seeds.
19.       The project also provides for the production of other seeds, primarily
maize, soybean, groundnuts and sorghum. The main beneficiary of this seed
production will be Sabah, where the CPCs will produce an estimated 150 tons of



ANNEX 7
Page 6
maize seed per annum, which will in turn sow approximately 150,000 acres and
produce 200,000 tons of maize by full development. In Peninsular Malaysia the
additios.aL_  ea to be cropped using these seeds amounts to 450,000 acres,
producing 550,000 tons p.a. by full development./A The Sarawak CPC will
initlally produce only padi seed, with other crop seeds (maize, groundnuts,
etc.) phased into production by full development.
20.       Additionally padi production over the project maturation period of
ten years would increase total Malaysian padi production by 16% over 1974-76
levels (see Section B, Table 1.3). This would reduce Malaysia's potential
future dependence on imported food grains and seed.
Prices
21.       Padi Prices.  The proposed project would reduce Malaysian dependence
on imported rice (primarily high grade Thai and Chinese rice), which has
amounted to approximately 150,000 to 200,000 tons p.a. in recent years. Padi
has been valued in terms of Bank projections for the price of Thai rice (5%
broken, f.o.b. Bangkok). As the grades produced in Malaysia are closer in
quality to 15% broken Thai rice than to the 5% export grade for which long-
term projections are made, the f.o.b. Bangkok prices have been reduced by 10%,
maintaining the price ratio between the two grades that has prevailed in
rezent years. A detailed breakdown of the f.o.b. price estimates used for
padi is presented in Section B, Table 1.9.
Project Life
22.       An evaluation period of 25 years was used for the economic analysis.
This time period assumes a 25 year life for buildings, with no terminal
salvage value. Terminal salvage value is included for vehicles and equipment.
With proper operation and maintenance, which has been included in the costs.
Project facilities should easily remain in use for this period.
Results
23.       The results of the economic analysis are shown in Table 1.1,
Section B.  They indicate that to achieve a rate of return of 25%, a total
rise in padi production of only 3.8% is required by 1987 over and above the
average production of 2.0 million tons for the base period 1974-76. Padi
production is expected to increase over the period by much more and it would
be reasonable to assume that more than 3.8% of the total rise would be justi-
fiably attributable to the impact of the proposed project.
/1  Sce Section A, Table 1.2 for estimated CPC production levels of other seeds,
Esiimated acreage to be cropped is calculated on the assumption that one
ton of CPC seed u11 crop 100 acres.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
24.       The present extension, training, and seed production infrastructures
in Sabah and Sarawak are substantially less developed than those in Peninsular
Malaysia. The project is thus providing a much more extensive expansion of
infrastructure in these two states. For this reason project benefits will
not be realized as rapidly there as in Peninsular Malaysia, as the base
infrastructure will take longer to be established, but by full development,
however, Sabah and Sarawak will realize substantial benefits (relatively
similar to those in Peninsula states) as a result of the project. HYV seed
will be produced at a lower cost than imported seed (see para. 11 and asso-
ciated table), and the establishment of Farmers' Associations in Sabah and
ESCs and AFBs in Sarawak will provide an excellent means by which extension
workers can reach farmers with a supply of HYV seeds and infrastructure needed
to apply modern farming techniques. The increases in production will be the
result of using HYV seeds and necessary inputs (primarily fertilizers and
agro-chemicals) (Section B, Tables 1.4-1.6). Access to this package of tech-
nology, and appropriate information on how to make proper use of it, will
be supplied by extension workers to be provided under the project.
Farm Incomes
25.       The proposed project would contribute to raising real net padi
farm incomes of project farmers by US$80-100 per family (US$15-19 per capita)
assuming present farm-gate prices. The income increases, given the small size
of padi farms, represent the maximum impact attainable through increased
extension and seed production services. While the project would raise only a
few padi farmers above poverty income levels, it would provide a 14 to 26%
increase in income to the largest identifiable poverty group in Malaysian
society.
26.       On a regional basis, real net padi farm incomes for project farmers
are estimated to increase by US$99 per family (US$18.70 per capita) in
Peninsular Malaysia, US$83 per family (US$15.40 per capita) in Sabah, and
US$89 per family (US$16.80 per capita) in Sarawak (see Section B, Farm Models,
Tables 1.4 - 1.6).



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION EROJECT
Seed Subproject: Results of Sensitivity Analysis
Analysis   >'mptions
Costs,  Capital      *      *      *    *    *      -25%    +25%    -25%          -25% +25%    +25%         *        *
Recurrent   *      *      *    *    *         *        *        *           *    *        *      -15%    +15%
Bene_its             *   -20%  -10% +10% +20%         *        *      -10%        +10% -10%    +10%         *        *
Financ'.al rate
of r-turn
Total p:.oJect      14%    8%   11%  17%  21%        18%      11%      14%         24%   9%       10%      17%      11%
Peninsula
component         26%    7%   17%  37%  50%        56%      17%      32%   over 50%  10%       23%      32%      19%
*  Best estimate.
crn Z
0
X a 



MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Seed Center Production
(Tons)
1978   1979      1980      1981   1982-1987    1988       1989      1990     1991   1992-2002
Peninsula
Padi          600.0  900.0  1,200.0  1,500.0   2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0
Maize                                     20.0       30.0       30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
Groundnut                                200.0      250.0     250.0    250.0    250.0    250.0        250.0
Soyabean                                  30.0       90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0
Sorghum                                   20.0       30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
Total     600.0  900.0  1,200.0  1,770.0   2,400.0   2,400.0  2,400.0  2,400.0  2,400.0   2,400.0
Sabah
Padi                  25.0    100.0    150.0        200.0     210.0    215.0    225.0    235.0        250.0
Maize                           20.0      70.0      100.0      105.0    110.0    115.0    120.0        125.0
Groundnut                       10.0      25.0       40.0       40.0     43.0      45.0      47.0      50.0
Soyabean                         3.0       7.0       10.0      10.0      10.5      11.0      11.5       12.5
Total              25.0    160.0    252.0       350.0      365.0    378.5    396.0    413.5        437.5
Sarawak
Padi                  40.0      80.0    150.0       250.0     260.0    270.0    290.0    300.0        312.5
Total              40.0      80.0    150.0      250.0      260.0    270.0    290.0    300.0        312.5
F- rt 
u~ n Z
ci  t



ANNEX 7
Section A
Table 1.3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Seed Center Production Revenues -a
(Constant 1977 M1$000)
1978   1979   1980    1981   1982-1987    1988       1989     1990      1991   1992-2002
Commercial Sales Revenue lb
Peninsula
Padi                                 126.0  212.6  346.5    512.0   1,023.8   1,023.8  1,023.8  1,023.8  1,023.8   1,023.8
Maize                                                          3.3        9.7       9.7      9.7       9.7      9.7        9.7
Groundnuts                                                    71.5     134.1      134.1    134.1    134.1    134.1       134.1
Soyabean                                                      15.5      69.5       69.5     69.5      69.5     69.5       69.5
Sorghum                                                        3.4        7.6       7.6      7.6       7.6      7.6        7.6
Total                             126.0  212.6  346.5    605.7   1,244.7   1,244.7  1,244.7  1,244.7  1,244.7   1,244.7
Sabah
Padi                                          5.9   28.9      51.2      102.4     107.5    110.1    115.2    120.3       128.0
Maize                                                 3.1     15.0       32.2      33.8     35.4      37.0     38.6       40.2
Groundouts                                            3.0      9.0       21.5      21.5     23.1      24.2     25.3       26.9
Soyabean                                              1.3      3.6        7.7       7.7      8.1       8.5      8.9        9.6
Total                                      5.9   36.3      78.8     163.8      170.5    176.7    184.9    193.1       204.7
Sarawak
Padi                                           9.4   23.1     51.2      128.0     133.1    138.2    148.4    153.6       160.0
Total                                      9.4   23.1      51.2     128.0      133.1    138.2    148.4    153.6       160.0
Total (I)                         126.0  227.9  405.6    735.7   1,536.5   1,548.3  1,559.6  1,578.0  1,591.4   1.609.4
Consumption/Subsidy Sales Revenue /c
Peninsula
Padi                                 189.0  259.9  283.5    275.7      262.5      262.5    262.5    262.5    262.5       262.5
Maize                                                          2.3        4.1       4.1       4.1      4.1      4.1        4.1
Groundouts                                                    38.5       34.4      34.4     34.4      34.4     34.4       34.4
Soyabean                                                       8.3       17.8      17.8     17.8      17.8     17.8       17.8
Sorghum                                                        3.4        2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0
Total                             189.0  259.9  243.5    328.2      320.8      320.8    320.8    320.8    320.8       320.8
Sabah
Padi                                           7.2   23.6     27.6       26.3      27.6     28.3      29.6     31.2       32.9
Maize                                                 2.9      8.1        8.3       8.7       9.1      9.5      10.0      10.3
Groundnuts                                            2.5      4.8        5.5       5.5       5.9      6.2      6.5        6.9
Soyabean                                              1.1      1.9        2.0       2.0      2.1       2.1      2.2        2.3
Total                                      7.2   30.1      42.4      42.1       43.8     45.4      47.4     49.9       52.4
Sarawak
Padi                                          11.6   18.9     27.6       32.8      34.1      35.4     38.1      39.4      41.0
Total                                     11.6   18.9      27.6       32.8      34.1     35.4      38.1     39.4       41.0
Total (II)                        189.0  278.7  333.3    408.9      404.0      407.0    409.9    412.6    418.4       422.5
Total Revenues                    315.0  506.6  738.9  1,144.6   1,940.5   1,955.3  1,969.5  1,990.6  2,009.8   2,031.9
/a  Assumes all production is sold in the following manner:  commercial sales; reject and damage seed sold on a consumption
basis; sold to GOM for subsidy schemes.  The following percentage distribution has been assumed between the three sources
of sales:
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982-2002
Consumption sales        35       45       55        65         75
Reject/damage            15       15        15       15          15
GOM subsidy              50       40       30        20         10
Total              100      100      100       100        100
/b  The following prices have been used in estimating revenues:
Padi                e M$/ton           525
Maize                  NM$/ton         330
Groundnuts           8 M$/ton          550
Soyabean             1 M$/ton          792
Sorghum             e M$/ton           260
Commercial sales revenue has a 302 premium price beginning in1 1982 and continuing thereafter.
These prices are domestic Malaysia prices.  For estimate of prices used for economic analyses see Section b, Table 1.8.
Xc Sold at a nonpremium price. Prices are same as prices used for commercial sales revenue before premium price is
implemented.



rMYASIA
NATIONAL 95T0N8808 PROJECT
Financial tate of Saturn. Seed Centers
(Constant 1977 t88 000)
1978                 1980      1981       1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1888    19b9       1990     1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000       2001     2002
Prodoctio- (Lh&00 ft
PadS                                600.0     965.0    1,380.0   1,800.0   2,450.0  1,450.0  2,450.0  2,450.0  2,450.0  2,450.0  2,470.0  2,485.0  2.515,0  2,535.0  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5  2,562.5   2,562.5  2,562.5
Stalre                                                     20.0      50.0     230.0    130.0    130.0    130.0    130.0    130.0    135.0    140.0    145.0    150.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0    155.0            155.0    155.0
10.0     225.0     290.0    290.0    290.0    290.0    290.0    290.0    290.0    293.0    295.0    297.0    308.0    50.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0             300.0    300.0
Soyabea.                                                    3.0      37.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.8    105.0    101.0    101.5    102.5    102.5    102.5    102.5    182.5    102.5    002.5 102.5    102.5               802.5    102.5
torobos                                                              20.0      30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0     30.0      38.0     30.0      30.0     30.8     30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0
I£vt/b
Cootaerrtol coIns roenna            126.0     210.8       485.6    7035.    1,553.5  1,536.5   1,536.5  1,536.5  1,536.5  1,536.5  1,548.3  1,559,6  1,578.0  1,591.4  1,609.4  1,609.4  1,609.4  1,609.8  1,609.4 1,609.4  1,689.4  1,609.4  1,689.4   1,609.4  1,6979.4
CootooFtloo/sotaldy taletorevenue   189.0     208.0      355.3      4089      404.0    404.0    404.0    404.0    404.0    404.0    407.0    409.9    412.6    418.4    422.5    422.5    422.5    422.5    422.5    422.5    422.5    422.5    622.5            422.5   492.5
TOtal                      315.0      506.6      738.29   ,144.6   1,940.5  1,940.5  1,940.5  1,940.5  1,940.5  1,940.5  1.955,3  1.969.5  1,990.6  2,009.8  2,031.6  2,031.6  2,031.6  2,031.6  2.031.6  2.031.6  2,031.6  2,031.6  2.031.6  2032.6  2.031.6
Gutf lose Ic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  + R7std,ael 2 1st
Oncest=etat Cotta
Clot1 works                       131.7     690.3    1,593.0       00.5       5.2
vehicles                                    580.6    1,467.0      420.9     261.8
bguipp7nt                                   195. I     212.7      180.3     107.8
To-al                       131.7   1.480.0   3_L72.07     6077.7     374.8
Recurreot Cotta
Salaries                          100.0     148.2      225.4      279.5     305.3    305.3    505.3    303.3    305.5    305.3    385.3    305.3    300.3    305.3    305.3                           30553 305.3   305.3 30553    305.3        3    305.3      305.3    305.3
Payteot- to f-ater -g-trowero                                     195.8     306.6    502.5    572.5    502.5    502.5    572.5    522.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5    572.5             572.5    572.5
Gmeer1                             18.0      34.4        50.6      68.1      79. 4     0        09.4     79.4      09.4     794      794       7        7         79.4     79.4      79.4     79.4     08.4      79.4    70.4       79.4     79.4      79.4      79.4     29.4
Projact seed prod./ticId coats    14.0       25.4       53.0      221.0     246.7    246.0    246.0    246.7    246.7    246.7    246.0    246.7    266.7    246.7    246.7    246.7    266.7    246.0    246.0    246.0    246.7    266.7    266.7             246.7    246.7
t.1atpteoe reolacoowot                                                                                  668.6    578.5    353.3    367.8                         668.6    578.5    353.3    367.0                        683.0    711.5    401.3  1,335.5       282.8     35.1
Total                       132.0     208.0      329.7      770.9 1,008.0  1,283.9  1,203.9  1,872.5  1.782.4  1,557.2  1.501,7  1223.9  1,203.9  1,872.5  1.782.4  1.557,2  1.571.7  1,203.9  1,203.9  1,876.9  1,926.4  1,6052i 2i_S9.4  1486.7  1.239.0
T-al -tal.e.               263.7   1,688.0    3.602.4   1.448,6   1,382.80  1,203.9  1.203.9  1,872.5  1,782.4  1,557.2  1,571.7  1,203.9  0,203.9  18072.5  1.7_82,4  1,55ii2  1,071.0  12_03,9  1.20389  1,876.9  1,926.4  1,605.2  2_538,4   1,486.7  1.239.0
Net c-ih flow                          51.3  (1,181.4)  (2,8t3.5)   (304.0)    557.7    736.6    736.6       68.0    158.1    383.3    383.6    765.6    786.7    137.3    249.2    474.4    459.9    827.7    827.7    154.7    185.2    426.4   (507.8)    544.9
t  toarce:  AMoe 7, St- tio  A, Table 1.2.
ttsece: 5     s...  7, Sertion A, Table 1.3,
Ls  Source:         ..oeseot Coate, Vol. 11:  Peo3ert File, AMoes 6, Paer I0, Sectioo C.
Recurrene  Costs, Vol. 11:  Project POil, Aon.o 6, Parc 1, octioo 8, To.urs 1.5, 1.6, sod 1.7.



HALAYSI4
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Seed Subr-joect -   Pettusul  Financial Rate of Return
(constant 1977 99°002)
1978     1979        198o        1981       1982       1983      1984      1985       1986      1987       1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997      1998       1999      2020       2001       2982
Produc t lot
Pedi                                     600.0   900.0       1,200.0    1,500.0    2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,2000.   2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0
liaIse                                                                     20.0        30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0      300.0      00.0      30.0      00.0       39.0      30.0       30.0      20.0      30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0      30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0
Grourdnuts                                                                200.0       250.0    250.0    250.0        250.0         250.0      250.0     250.0     25 1.0     250.0     250.0   250.         0     250.0      250.0     250.0    250.0    290.0        250.0    250.0        250.0    250.0
bonabrar                                                                   30.0        90.0      99.0      90.0       90.0       90.0      90.0       0.0      90.0       90.0      90.0      00.0       909        2   90      .0      980 90.0                       9.        90.0        90.0       90.0
So-rhum                                                                    20.0        30.0      300       30.0       30.9      30.0       30.0       0.       30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0                30.0 3.0   3.        30         30.0      300.0     30.0       30.0       30.0       30.0
osccctso untsa revenues                  126.0   212.6         346.5      6059.07   1,244.07  1,244.7   1,244.7   1,244.2  1,244.0   1,244.7  1,244,   12,244.0  1,244.0   1,244.0   1,244.7   1,244.0  2,244.0   1,2440,  1,2A44.   1,244.7  1,244.7   1,244.7   1,2444.7    1,24.7  1,244.7
ouoepto tubsdy  soles crucluct    909             259.9189.0    259.9  2803.5  32.2   020.9     320.0     320.8      320.          0 320.     9 0.8    320.8    320.20   320.8     3200.8  320.8  320.  32 0.   2.           320.8     320.       320.9     320.0    320.8          300.9   320.8      320.8
Total                          315.0   402.5          430.0      933.9    2 12,50.    1,565.5  1,565.5 51,565.5  1.565.5  1,565.5  1,565.5 1.565.5  12565.5  1, 565.5  1,5655                _565.5  1,565.5   1 565.5  21,55.5  10 565.5  -116A5e.   50.09          1,15655    _15k69   0,565.5
Autt loss
lourecsrct cuots 00
.itil  -orko                           126.5   221.0        743.0        59.2
Sqllpeant                                       414.9     1,276.1       309.0      261.9
VoOchlas                                        200.9         05.0      184.3      007,8
S-ol                            126.5   043.7    2 095.4         633.0      369.6
SalarIes                                 2.5    14.6         35.8        66.9       72.1       72.1      72.1      72.1       72.1      72.1       72.1      72.1      02.1       72.1      72.1       72.1      02.2       02.2      72.0      02.0       02.2      72.0       02.1       02,0       72.1
PaySanta to Oaormroucgcuaer2 165.9                                                  326.4     492.5       492.5   492.5      492.5     492,5      492.5     492.5    491.5          492.5  492.5      492.5     492.5      492.5     492.5     492.5      492.5     492,5      492.5      492,0     482,5
General                                 108.     21.0        30.5        38,0       42.0       41.0      41.0      41.0       42.0      4I.2       40.0      41.0      40.0       41.0      41.0       41.0      41.0       41.0      41.0       41.0      41.0      41.0       41.0       410,       40.0
Pro ject   1d prod./fieId  coats        24,0     14.2        30.0       142,0      046.0      146.9     106.0     246.0      146,0     146.0    146.0       146.0    146.0       146.0    146.0       146.0     040.0       46.0     246,0     146.0      146.0     146.0    146,0        246.0      14 6.0
Equipment cepluccacco                                                                                             302,6     442.5      353.03        367.8                       502.6     442.5      33.3      367.8                          300.6      440.5    304.4  .0,009.1        220.6        2.8
Total                            34.5    49.6         96.5 422              5I9 25.0 052.6       052     2.203,2  1,193.1  1,104.9  0,009,4          751.6      751,6   1,253.2   )493.L   194   1,19.4             450.6     051 64  1,253.2   2 3        1.1-0 iA2:              972.2      000,4
oa   otlos                                 161.     0 793.3    2,191.t   1,044,9        955.3     051.6    751.6  1,253.2  0.293,0  12104.9  8Ilj9.4             751.6     751.6  _12         1¢ 2       ,0253.21_104.9  1,119,4  056     050,6  053,2  1_9230   1,126.0   2,929,0             972.2    753-4
Nta  cash floo                             154.0  (320.80   00 561.7)   (111.0)    612,2    813.9           803.    312.3    372.4         460.6    446.1    913.9    013.9          312.3     072.0     4606       440.1     913.9      913.9     302. 3  370.4        439.5    (464.Z)   5991         912.1
/a  Sourcc.  A.o.t. 7,  Soslun A, OAbls 1.2.
/b  S.o..c    Vol 21:  Pcojoco Fult, AOnrn  6, Pact 71, Section C,  uArl  0.1. 
/c  So-c-c:  Vol 11:  Ptnjccc Fils, Anx 6, PsL 1, SectIon B. Tble l.5.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.1
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
Costs (M$ million)                        Benefits
Costs
Incremental  discounted    % of full        Discount  Present value
Year      costs         at 25%    annual benefits  factor    of benefits
1      14.7           11.8              0               -            -
2      21.3            13.6             5           0.640        0.032
3      22.5            11.5            15           0.512        0.077
4      15.8             6.5            25           0.410        0.103
5      13.8             4.5            40           0.328        0.131
6       8.9             2.3            60           0.262        0.157
7      10.1            2.1             80           0.210        0.168
8      10.7             1.8            90           0.168        0.151
9      11.0             1.5            95           0.134        0.127
10-25    10.4             4.3           100           0.416        0.416
Total              59.9                                       1.362
Notes:  The increase in annual value of crops (1977 prices) required
from Year 10 onwards (on 1974-76 as a base period) to achieve a
25% rate of return is M$59.9 m/ 1.362 or M$44.0 m.
The 1974-76 base period padi production averaged 2.0 million
tons, valued (in 1977 prices) at M$262/ton, i.e. M$524 million.
Thus the required Year 10 value of production increase is 8.4%
of the base period value of production. Allowing for the pro-
jected rise in the real value of padi (from M$262 to M$581/ton
in 1977 prices), the total production increase, attributable
to project extension and training, required over the ten-year
period to achieve a rate of return of 25%, would be only 3.8%.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.2
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Padi Production, 1975 /a
Area planted       % of Peninsular       Average yield            Production (tons)            % of Peninsular
(ac)            total area           (ton padi/ac)          Padi        Milled rice       Total Production
Main Season (wet padi) /b
Johor                  9,140                  1.0                0.98                9,008            5,860                0.9
Kedah                296,830                31.9                 1.37              406,913          264,660               40.4
Kelantan             175,657                18.9                 0.71              125,390           81,550               12.4
Melaka                28,250                  3.0                0.92               25,888           16,840                2.6
Negri Sembilan        19,110                  2.1                0.92               17,510           11,390                1.7
Pahang                49,868                 5.3                 0.74               37,200           24,200                3.7
Penang                38,463                 4.1                 1.30               50,065           32,560                5.0
Perak                121,205                13.0                 1.08              130,828          85,090                13.0
Perlis                66,428                 7.1                 1.32               87,780          57,090                 8.7
Selangor              51,123                 5.5                 1.20               61,495           40,000                6.1
Trengganu             74,807                  7.8                0.75               55,985           36,410                5.5
Subtotal        930,881                100.0                1.08            1.008,062          655,650              100.0
Sarawak              141,313                                     0.66               93,634           60,900
Sabah                 83,205                                     1.16               96,294           62,630
Total         1,155,399                                     1.04            1.197,990          779,180
Main Season (dry padi) /b
Kedah                  4,160                 17.1                0.59                2,438            1,590               18.5
Kelantan               6,760                27.9                0.50                 3,340            2,170               25.4
Pahang                 6,185                25.5                 0.67                4,135            2,690               31.5
Perak                  2,065                 8.5                 0.56                1,160              750                8.8
Perlis                   303                  1.2                0.74                  225              150                1.7
Trengganu              4,798                 19.8                0.38                1,848            1,200               14.1
Subtotal         24,271                100.0                0.54               138550                               100.0
Sarawak              195,145                                     0.26               50,416           32,790
Sabah                 32,240                                     0.27                8,764            5,700
Total           251,656                                     0.29               72,326           47,040
Off Season (wet padi) /c
Johor                  5,223                  1.0                1.08                5,632            3,660                0.9
Kedah                229,635                43.1                 1.42              327,283          212,870               49.0
Kelantan              68,320                 12.8                1.06               71,998           46,830               10.8
Melaka                 6,710                  1.2                0.89                5,962            3,880                0.9
Negri Sembilan        17,115                  3.2                0.99               17,020           11,070                2.5
Pahang                 4,323                  0.8                0.86                3,710            2,410                0.5
Penang                40,465                  7.6                1.14               47,855           31,130                7.2
Perak                 61,083                 11.4                1.08               66,043           42,950                9.9
Perlis                33,400                  6.3                1.28               42,900           27,900                6.4
Selangor              50,203                  9.5                1.38               69,283           45,060               10.4
Trengganu             16,823                  3.1                0.61               10,230            6,650                 1.5
Subtotal         53,330                100.1                1.26              667.916          434,410               100.0
Sarawak                                                                                                                    ___
Sabah                    9,633                                     1.10               10,640            6,920
Total           542,933                                     1.25              678.556          441,330
Grand Total                                                                        1,948,872        1,267,550
/a Source: Statistics provided by Economics and Statistics Branch, Ministry of Agriculture.
/b  Main-season crop harvested January - April 1975.  No dry padi reported planted in Johor, Melaka, Negri Sembilan,
Penang and Selangor.
/c Off-season crop harvested June - October 1975.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.3
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Padi Production, 1968-75 /a
Main-season      Main-season      Off-season         Total           % of             % of
wet padi         dry padi        wet padi           padi      wet padi area   wet padi area
(tons)           (tons)          (tons)           (tons)       irrigated      double-cropped
1968
Peninsular Malaysia             919,629           24,277        255,226       1,199,132                            24
Sarawak                          62,623           49,231              -         111,854
Sabah                            77,905            9,087          3,244          90,236
Total                       1,060,157           82,595        258,470       1,401,222
1969
Peninsular Malaysia            1,010,526          26,522        286,484       1,323,532           40               25
Sarawak                           78,705          59,317              -         138,022
Sabah                             76,522           8,518          6,089          91,129
Total                        1,165,753          94,357        292,573       1,552,683
1970
Peninsular Malaysia            1,001,624          27,491        377,012       1,406,127           41               35
Sarawak                           71,417          61,485              -         132,902            -                -
Sabah                             82,410           8,718          4,490          95,618           44                6
Total                        1,155,451          97.694        381,502       1,634,647           36               29
1971
Peninsular Malaysia              998,088          24,969        498,352       1,521,409           47               43
Sarawak                           88,176          54,243              -         142,419            1                -
Sabah                             92,742           8,349          7,026         108,117           44                8
Total                       1,179,006           87,561        505,378       1,771,945           41               35
1972
Peninsular Malaysia              919,229          17,574        603,671       1,540,474           77               55
Sarawak                           91,543          55,473              -         147,016            2                -
Sabah                            100,476           8,272         11,224         119,972           46               12
Total                        1,111,248          81,319        614,895       1,807,462           65               44
1973
Peninsular Malaysia            1,018,583          13,499        667,924       1,700,006           77               58
Sarawak                           77,552          39,975              -         117,527            2                -
Sabah                             82,210           7,857         14,376         104,443           45               17
Total                        1,178,345          61,331        682,300       1,921,976           67               48
1974
Peninsular Malaysia            1,074,102          12,100        703,240       1,789,442           79               59
Sarawak                           93,419          45,295              -         138,714            2                -
Sabah                             94,956           9,948         10,916         115,820           46                11
Total                       1,262,477           67,343        714,156       2,043,976           68               49
1975
Peninsular Malaysia            1,008,866          13,146        667,908       1,689,920           80               57
Sarawak                           93,634          50,415              -         144,049            1                -
Sabah                             96,294           8,764         10,640         115,698           61                12
Total                       1,198,794          72,325        678,548       1,949,667           69               47
/a Source: Statistics provided by Economics and Statistics Branch, Ministry of Agriculture; DID; and Sabah and
Sarawak DOA. Total figures for 1975 diverge slightly from those presented in Table 1.2 due to metric
conversions and rounding.   Total padi production in 1976 is estimated at about 2.015 million tons.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.4
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Indicative 2.5 Acre Farm Model (Peninsula, main season wet padi) /a
(1977 M$)
Without                 With
project Lb           project lb
Yield (tons/acre)                             1.00                  1.34
Total production (tons)                       2.50                 3.35
Value (M$581/ton)                          581                   581
Gross value                              1,453                 1.946
Cash Inputs
Land preparation                          68                    87
Seed                                      13                    17
Fertilizer and agrochemicals               8                    75
Hired labor                               28                   182
Zakat (Muslim tithe - 3% of
gross revenue)                          44                    58
Total                                 161                   419
Net padi income                          1,292                 1,527 /c
Unpaid family labor days                   144                   186
Income per family labor day                  9.0                   8.2
/a Farmers on average plant about an additional 8% of the padi area
to off season padi, as well as growing various secondary crops.
/b Conditions prevailing in year 10, assuming a theoretical "without"
project case of stable yields in the absence of more inputs.
/c This is an increase of 18%. The budget represents the typical
situation expected on owner-operated smallholdings, assuming a
3% yield growth rate. On share cropped farms (about half the
total) net padi income to the tenant would be about M$680 and
M$860 respectively for the "without" and "with" project cases, an
increase of 24%.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.5
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Indicative 2.5 Acre Farm Model (Sabah, main season wet padi) /a
(1977 M$)
Without                 With
project /b           project /b
Yield (tons/acre)                             1.16                  1.56
Total production (tons)                       2.9                  3.9
Value (M$581/ton)                          581                   581
Gross value                              1,685                 2,266
Cash Inputs
Land preparation                          85                   145
Seed                                      13                    17
Fertilizer and agrochemicals              10                   124
Hired labor                               35                   228
Total                                 143                   514
Net padi income                          1,542                 1,752 /c
Unpaid family labor days                   144                   186
Income per family labor day                 10.7                   9.4
/a  Over 15% of the padi area is planted to a second padi crop and
secondary crops are also planted in the off season.
/b  Conditions prevailing in year 10, assuming a theoretical "without"
project case of stable yields in the absence of more inputs.
/c  This is an increase of about 14% (US$83) and, assuming a 3% yield
growth rate with the project, represents the typical siruation
expected on owner-operated farms.  (There is little share cropp>g.)



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.6
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Indicative 2.5 Acre Farm Model (Sarawak, main season wet padi) /a
(1977 M$)
Without                 With
project /b           project /b
Yield (tons/acre)                            0.66                  0.9
Total production (tons)                       1.65                 2.25
Value (M$581/ton)                          581                   581
Gross value                                959                 1.307
Cash Inputs
Land preparation                          45                   113
Seed                                      13                    17
Fertilizer and agrochemicals               5                    50
Hired labor                               18                    25
Total                                  81                   205
Net padi income                            878                 1,102 /c
Unpaid family labor days                   144                   186
Income per family labor day                  6.1                   5.9
Ia  In the off season other secondary crops are planted.
/b  Conditions prevailing in year 10, assuming a theoretical "without"
project case of stable yields in the absence of more inputs.
Ic  Thais is an increase of about 26% (US$89), assuming a 3% yield
growth rate with the project.



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.7
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Farm Labor Requirement
(Man-days per farm unit)
Without project        With project       Increment
Land preparation                     18.4                  20.0              1.6
Nursery                              10.0                  12.0              2.0
Fertilizing                           4.0                  6.0               2.0
Transplanting                        38.0                  38.0                 -
Weeding                               6.6                  21.0             14.4
Water management                      6.6                  17.0             10.4
Harvest                              60.0                  71.5             11.5
Total                         143.6                 185.5              41.9



ANNEX 7
Section B
Table 1.8
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
World Rice Price Projections and Derived Shadow
Prices of Malaysian Rice
(1977 $/ton)
Year                                        1976 /a       1977         1985 onwards
f.o.b. Bangkok, US$ /b                      254            270              390
X(.9) (grade differential)                  229            243              351
X(2.52), M$ conversion                      576            612              885
+ Shipping and handling                       50            50               50
Price of rice, M$/ton                       626            662              935
Padi equivalent price, M$/ton
X(.65) (milling rate) =                     407            430              607
- other millIng and
distribution costs                        -26           -26               -26
Farm-gate padi price, M$/ton                381            404              581
(M$/pikul)                                   22.7          24.0              34.6
-a  1976 prices are actual prices in 1976 cu}-rency values.  Projections for
all other years are given in terms of constant 1977 currency values.
/b Thai rice, 5% brokens. No standard price projections are made for the
15% brokens grade, which is probably closer in quality to the mix of
rices produced in Malaysia. Thus, price projections for the 5% brokens
export gradc are reduced by 10% below, maintaining the price ratio
between these two grades which bas prevailed in recent years.



