Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4151-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
February 8, 1983
Urban Projects Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURREZNCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$   =  DH 6.00
DH 1  =  US$0.17
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCM      Banque Commerciale du Maroc
BCP      Banque Centrale Populaire
BdM      Banque Du Maroc
BNDE     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CDG      Caisse de Depot et de Gestion
CEN      Caisse d'Epargne Nationale
CGI      Compagnie Generale Immobiliare
CIFM     Compagnie Immobiliere et Fonciare Marocaine
CIH      Credit Immobilier et Hotelier
CNCA     Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
ERAC     Etablissement Regional d'Amenagement et de Construction
MHAT     Ministere de l'Habitat et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
MOF      Ministere des Finances
SOPHAL   Societe pour la Promotion de 1'Habitat Locatif
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
II.       THE HOUSING SECTOR.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
A - Background.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
B - Housing Construction and Policies  . . . . . . . . . .                   3
C - Housing Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    5
D - Bank Strategy in the Sector and Project Rationale  . .                   6
III.      THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
A - Project Objectives.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   8
B - Project Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    8
C - Project Description.                                                    8
D - Project Financial Features.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  13
E - Procurement and Disbursement.  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 15
F - Accounting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   16
G - Monitoring.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 16
H - Supervision .16
IV.  THE INSTITUTION .16
A - Institutional Aspects .16
B - CIH's Performances and Prospects.  . . . . . . . . . .                 19
V.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  24
VI.        ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.  . . . . . . .                  25
This dscbrnent has a restricted ditribultzio and mnay be used by recipients only in the performafnGe of I
their official duties. Its contents maay not Qtherwise be disclosed without World Bank au,thorization.



I



Annex I             Pipeline of Identified Subprojects (1983-85)
Annex II            Subproject Eligibility Criteria
Annex III           Household Models
Annex IV            Technical Assistance; Implementation Schedule
Annex V             Disbursement Schedule
Annex VI            CIH's Audited Income Statements (1977-81)
Annex VII           CIH's Audited Balance Sheets (1977-81)
Annex VIII          CIH's Performance Indicators (1977-81)
Annex IX            Major Assumptions Underlying CIH Projections
Annex X             CIH's Projected Lending Operations (1982-86)
Annex XI            CIH's Projected Income Statements (1982-86)
Annex XII           CIH's Projected Balance Sheets (1982-86)
Annex XIII          CIH's Projected Sources and Application of Funds (1982-86)
Annex XIV           CIH's Projected Financing Plan for 1983-86
Annex XV            CIH's Projected Performance Indicators (1982-86)
Annex XVI           Documents Available In the Project File
This report, prepared by B. Verdier and J-F. Landeau is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission which visited Casablanca in June-July 1982. Mission
members included; B. Verdier, Mission leader, and J-F. Landeau (World Bank);
and C. Hovnanian and A. Komorn (Consultants).



I



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Urban Sector Review Report on Morocco 1/ concluded that the
Moroccan authorities will be confronted with three broad challenges:
(i) to sustain a balanced growth of the urban centers and promote
their economic activities;
(ii)  to increase local government efficiency and resources for
providing utility and transport services to all urban areas
and in particular to squatter settlements; and
(iii)  to increase the efficiency of public and private housing
production and mobilize additional institutional and private
savings to the sector.
1.02     Previous Bank activities in the sector (para. 2.20 below) have mainly
addressed urban employment and the upgrading of infrastructure (items (i) and
(ii) above). The proposed project aims exclusively at assisting the
Government in increasing the efficiency of public and private production of
low cost housing (item (iii) above). It complements existing urban projects
and addresses an urgent need. The construction industry in Morocco is
suffering from a deteriorating economic climate. The market for bighly priced
houses is eroding. This is providing an incentive for private developers to
move into the low cost housing market. They are also encouraged to do so by
the Government which bas authorized by decree (April 1981) the single largest
housing finance institution in Morocco, the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier
(CIH), to finance such units.
1.03     The proposed project is designed to help implement this objective.
It consists of a US$60 million loan to CIH to finance low cost housing and
also includes a technical assistance program to CIH. The project has been
designed to increase the attractiveness of low-cost housing production to
private and public developers, while at the same time increasing CIH's
efficiency to finance such developments.
1.04     CIH has received four loans from the Bank, all for hotel construction
(amounting to US$139.2 million net of cancellations as of January 1, 1983).
This report updates this information and concentrates on CIH's operations in
the housing area.
1/ Morocco - Urban Sector Review and Project Identification Report
No. 3860-MOR.  March 19, 1982.



- 2 -
II. T_E HOUSING SECTOR
A. Background I/
2.01     Morocco's urban population has increased rapidly over the past two
decades, expanding from 29% of the total population in 1960 to over 40% in
1981, or at an annual growth rate close to 5%. In recent years, this rapid
urbanization has taken place in the context of a deteriorating economic
situation.  During the 1978-80 period, the annual rate of growth of Morocco's
GDP fell to 4% from the 7% achieved in previous years; the balance of payments
deficit increased dramatically, as did unemployment; and real income remained
constant. These unfavorable conditions have spurred out-migration from rural
areas, and, despite Government attempts at containment, it is expected that
such migration alone will add 600,000 people each year to the urban centers,
which are projected to account for about 57% of the country's 36 million
inhabitants by the year 2000.
2.02     Morocco's urban settlement pattern is well balanced.  The primacy of
Casablanca with a 1981 population of 2.3 million (about a quarter of the total
urbanized population) is compensated for by the dynamic growth of Rabat-Sale
with a 1981 population of about 1 million and a substantial network of
small-and medium-sized cities, 9 of which have 1981 populations of over
100,000. Nonetheless, the rapid pace of urbanization will heavily tax the
absorptive capacity of these urban centers. It will also exacerbate the urban
problems currently exemplified by widespread poverty, deteriorating utility
networks, inadequate municipal services and a growing housing shortage.
2.03     In 1980, the Government estimated the housing shortage at about
700,000 units and the additional dwellings needed per year for new urban
households at 90,000 units. Though these figures are probably on the high
side, they underscore the magnitude of the urban housing problem in Morocco,
particularly when compared to the recent production of about 45,000 to 50,000
units per year (including informal housing). As a result of the gap between
the demand for, and supply of housing, conditions during the last decade have
progressively deteriorated with 40% of the housing stock either aged or
lacking basic sanitary facilities and another 20% made up of shacks. In
addition, severe overcrowding has occurred. It is estimated that the number
of households presently sharing a dwelling corresponds to over 20% of the
total urban households. The average number of persons per room in urban
dwellings is estimated at 2.5, with more than 70% of all urban households
living in one-to two-room units.
2.04     The housing shortage has particularly affected low income groups.
Although no accurate statistics are available, it is estimated that about 30%
of the urban population is living in squatter areas; and that 30 to 40% of the
squatter population has income below the 1981 Bank defined relative urban
poverty threshold of US$170 per household per month. The low level of home
ownership in Morocco (about 40% in 1981) further indicates that rental
accommodation is the predominant form of shelter for low income groups.
1/ A full description of the housing sector can be found in Morocco-Urban
Sector Review and Project Identification - Report No. 3860-MOR. March 19,
1982.



B. Housing Construction and Policies
2.05     The Government's traditional response to the urban housing shortage
has been to encourage public agencies, namely the Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development (MHAT) and the Regional Development and Construction
Agencies (ERAC), to move into housing production. Given the constraints
implicit in this approach, the policy is being reconsidered and the Government
now intends to enhance private production and investment activities in the
housing sector.
2.06     MHAT's direct activity in urban areas focuses on the production of
core housing units targeted at households with income less than US$170 per
month. Beneficiaries are expected to acquire the units on a lease-purchase
basis and to complete construction according to their needs and financial
resources. About 19,000 such units have been produced since the program
started in the early 1970s. The development of this program has been impaired
by MHAT's limited implementation capacity and lengthy administrative
procedures, particularly regarding delays in payments to contractors, which
have resulted in substantial cost overruns. Moreover, the program is not
financially sustainable since it relies exclusively on the Government budget
for its financing, and does not provide for appropriate enforcement of cost
recovery procedures. The program, although animated by a desire to alleviate
the situation, is not substantially resolving the housing needs of the poor.
2.07     The ERACs are among the most important urban bousing developers in
Morocco, with one agency in each of the seven economic regions of the
country. They are technically coordinated by a central office of the MHAT and
their programs and budgets are approved by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
Sites for ERAC projects are generally acquired by the Land Department within
MOF.
2.08     Following their establishment in 1974, the ERACs began operations
with a total working capital of US$5 million (supplied through a Government
grant) and a total short-term loan of US$34 million from a consortium of
Moroccan banks. Combining these financial resources with advances from
project beneficiaries, the ERACs launched, simultaneously, US$200 million of
construction works. Because the construction programs were overextended and
relied excessively on advances from the beneficiaries, several ERACs became
severely strained financially and, in many cases, had to cease all
construction activity. As a result the ERACs total production since 1974 has,
like that of MHAT, been fairly modest; 16,000 units. However, since 1978 the
Government has taken a number of corrective measures, including an increase in
the equity base of the ERACs for a total of about US$10 million and the
consolidation of their short-term debt into long-term eight-year loans. Their
financial management has also been strengthened as a result of their dealing
with CIH and competent new staff have been hired. These changes have
increased the overall efficiency of the ERACs.
2.09     Although the ERACs' responsibilities were mostly to provide social
housing affordable to the lower half of the urban population (in terms of
income), the costs of bousing units produced by these agencies have escalated



- 4 -
sharply, mainly because of increasing construction standards. Typical ERAC
units currently cost more than US$16,700 (1982 prices) or US$ 160 per m2 and
are becoming less affordable to the target group. At the same time, the
market for housing units above that price is eroding. In an administrative
memorandum dated April 1982, the Government instructed the ERACs to focus on
the delivery of lower cost housing units.
2.10     Public housing production in Morocco is complemented by the activity
of several Government controlled companies such as the Compagnie Generale
Immobiliere (CGI) which produces about 800 units a year (mostly comparable to
those of the ERACs), the Societe pour la Promotion de L'Habitat Locatif
(SOPHAL) and the Compagnie Immobiliore et Fonciere Marocaine (CIFM) which
builds and manages housing, mostly for government employees.
2.11     The limited housing production of the public sector has been
compensated for by that of the private sector which delivers about 35,000 to
40,000 units a year (about 90% of the new urban housing units put annually on
the market). The sector is dynamic and is characterized by the presence of
many small firms, though the larges.t firms (more than 50 employees) produced
more than 60% of the output. Private developers are active throughout the
country, the largest being located in Casablanca. Traditionally, developers
have catered to a high income clientele. Moreover, with the erosion of the
housing market for high priced units due to the stagnation of real income,
developers are increasingly turning to a middle income clientele, and a few
are specializing in building houses for low income people.  The costs of
housing units targeted to such clientele vary between US$100 to US$150
per m2 depending on the quality of the finishing. The production of such
units, however, has been constrained by three factors; (i) the low rate of
participation by financial institutions in the financing of such projects (40
to 60% of the total cost) which obliges developers to raise a substantial part
of the financing either from equity or from other sources of funds (usually
from commercial banks that charge up to 17% interest on such bridge
financing), (ii) the shortage of housing finance for low income groups, a
situation which increases the marketing risk for developers, and (iii) the
scarcity of developed land.
2.12     Formal private construction is now being encouraged by the
Government, which recently (April 18, 1981) enacted legislation providing for
various substantial tax exemptions for developers and companies which build or
acquire housing units for their own use, for sale and for rent. These include
exemptions from: property tax, corporate profit tax (on the housing
projects), and sales tax. It is expected that the legislation will further
encourage the private sector to invest in housing and will free undeveloped
urban land which has so far been held from the market for speculative
purposes. The response to this legislation has been positive as demonstrated
by the substantial increase in construction loans requested from CIH in
1981-82.
2.13     In summary, the above analysis demonstrates that the limited public
sector implementation capacity and the private sector's historic focus on
upper income housing are the main causes of the poor housing production in



Morocco. The problem has been worsened by the increasing gap between
stagnating real incomes and the increasing costs of housing. The Government
has initiated appropriate steps to help correct this situation by requesting
that public agencies focus on the production of units with lower standards,
and by fostering the production of the private sector. Such a move, however,
can only bear fruit if enough financial resources are channelled to low income
groups to enable them to pay for the housing, and if technical expertise is
provided to public and private developers to ensure their adherence to low
cost design. The proposed project aims at assisting the Government in these
undertakings.
C.  Housing Finance
Institutional Setting
2.14     Morocco has a well developed financial sector comprising 15
commercial banks, five specialized institutions, and two savings banks (Caisse
d'Epargne Nationale (CEN) and Chbques Postaux). Long-term finance is
available principally through four of the specialized institutions: CIH, the
agricultural credit bank (CNCA)j and the industrial bank (BNDE), all of which
have received Bank loans; and the Caisse de Depot et de Gestion (CDG) a
wholly-owned Government institution in charge of public fund management (e.g.
pensions and insurance funds, postal savings, etc.). The fifth specialized
institution, Banque du Maroc (BdM) is Morocco's Central Bank.
2.15     The mobilization of private individual savings is undertaken by
commercial banks (such as the Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP) and the Banque
Commerciale du Maroc (BCM)), Caisse nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) and
Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE). -' Only a small part
of these savings, however, is converted into housing finance. Contractual
savings schemes were introduced in 1973 by a number of commercial banks, but
neither the interest rate on deposits, nor the repayment period (5 to 6 years)
were considered attractive enough by the potential clientele to boost these
programs. They have now virtually ceased to operate. Since 1974, BCP has
been funding a low cost housing program referred to as Habitation Bon Marche
(HBM). However, because of the financial structure of BCP and the sound
tradition of risk specialization in the Moroccan banking system, BCP is not in
a position to commit a large portion of its resources to the funding of this
program. Therefore, its financing of housing operations has been very
limited. Generally, while commercial banks have, since March 1982, been
required to earmark 1.5% of their deposits for housing financing either
directly or by buying medium or long term securities issued by CIH, it is
expected that the financing of housing programs by commercial banks would
remain small, and that CIH will benefit most from this legislation.
2.16     Institutional savings are mobilized in the form of medium to long
term securities subscribed to chiefly by CDG and the insurance companies.
CIH, the only institution specializing in long term housing mortgages and
truly active in this field, is the major borrower on this market. In 1981,
1/ Details on the volume and saving structure are available on file.



CIH alone issued US$54.8 million worth of long term bonds, or 28.4% of all
issues. The volume of institutional savings available for long term finance
is, however, limited since its principal sources --pension funds, insurance
company reserves and social security funds-- have heavy recurrent commitments
and depend for their growth on the relatively small number of salaried
Moroccans.
2.17     Overall, the domestic financial market of Morocco is tight.  The
funds available for housing finance are affected by this situation. In recent
years, formal mortgage financing in Morocco, mostly allocated by CIH,
accounted for only an average of 15% of the total yearly capital investment ina
the housing sector. Most of these funds benefitted high income groups. To
maximize the use of funds available for housing finance, the Government
decided in April 1981 to redirect many of these funds to low income groups
mainly by instructing CIH to concentrate on the financing of low cost
housing. This major shift in resource allocation complements Government
instructions to the ERACs to focus on low cost housing construction and also
opens the way for the private sector to produce low cost housing.
Interest Rates for Housing Loans
2.18     The Government determines interest rate ceilings on deposits and
loans and these apply to all institutional credits in Morocco. Local currency
resource cost varies widely from 3% to 11.5% depending on the nature and
maturity of the resources. The cost of directly contracted foreign exchange
resources reflects international rates.
2.19     Lending rates range from a minimum of 5% to a maximum of 17%.  The
lending rates for construction and mortgage loans are pegged at 14%, well
above the projected inflation rate for Morocco (9% in 1983 and 1984 and 7%
thereafter).  The Government, however, subsidizes mortgage interest rates.
The final interest rates charged to beneficiaries depend on their income and
on the real estate value, and range between 6% and 14%. The subsidy is paid
directly to the lending institutions and, therefore, does not affect their
profitability. However, in view of- the financial burden that such subsidies
impose on the Treasury and the serious resource constraints facing the
Moroccan economy, the Government, after discussion with the Bank carried out a
realignment of the interest rate structure for mortgage loans (para. 3.17).
D. Bank Strategy in the Sector and Project Rationale
2.20     The overall Bank strategy in the urban infrastructure sector is to
assist the government in (i) focusing its social expenditures on target
groups; (ii) improving access to government-provided services; (iii) lowering
the cost per beneficiary of its services; and (iv) increasing institutional
capacity. The two existing Bank supported urban projects fall within this
strategy. The first project, the Rabat Urban Development Project (Loan
1528-MOR), was prepared by Government and approved by the Bank in February
1978. This project was instrumental in introducing a major change in
Government policy from systematic demolition of squatter areas to upgrading
settlements when appropriate. Equally important, the project introduced low



cost upgrading and shelter concepts which ensure affordability to the lowest
income groups and incorporated improved cost recovery. The project provides
infrastructure and shelter improvements in three sites along with an
industrial zone and a wide spectrum of community facilities from vocational
training center for women to health centers. About 60,000 people, of whom 70%
are below the urban poverty threshold are being affected by the project. The
project is expected to be completed by December 1983. As a further step
towards strengthening the institutional framework, a Second Urban Development
Project was prepared by MHAT and approved by the Bank in 1981 (Loan
1944-MOR). This second project addresses the needs of about 100,000 people in
the Cities of Kenitra and Meknes. Besides providing infrastructure and
community facilities to the selected sites, the project aims at strengthening
the implementing capacities of the Cities of Kenitra and Meknes.
2.21     Experience under the first project has been disappointing although
considerable improvement has recently occurred. There have been major
problems with the complexity of the institutional arrangements and the poor
coordination between the various executing agencies as well as their limited
implementation capacities. Most importantly, the lack of adequate counterpart
funds has led to substantial delays in project execution. Lengthy land
expropriation procedures have delayed the recovery of improvement costs of
slum upgrading schemes. The second project built on the experience of the
first one and has avoided some of the pitfalls. It is more focused, deals
with fewer agencies, and has provided for the strengthening of staff when
warranted. Execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall, experience under
these two projects has shown that the greatly reduced construction standards
were very well accepted by the population and well tailored to their financial
needs, and that simplified institutional arrangements are a key element for
the success of such projects.
2.22     The proposed project focuses on housing production as a complement to
the Bank's efforts in the first two projects. To this end, the project will
make suitable financing available and will provide a set of financial
advantages to private and public developers engaged in low cost housing
construction. Funds would be channeled through a well established and
effective housing finance institution, the CIH. The project builds on the
experience of the on-going projects inasmuch as it will (i) encourage
developers to apply the physical standards used under the two previous
projects, and (ii) streamline the responsibilities for delivering low cost
housing units by channelling Bank funds througb an effective institution.
2.23     Through a proposed increase in interest rates for housing (para. 3.17)
and through emphasizing home ownership as an efficient way to mobilize
indiviaual savings for housing construction, the project would also address,
though in a limited way, the issue of resource mobilization which was a root
cause of the implementation delays experienced by the First Urban Development
Project. This project would also lay the foundation for a reallocation of the
funds available for bousing finance from high income to low income groups. As
the market for low income housing has been hardly tapped, this shift, if
successful, will be a durable one. The question of the long-term financing of
such activities will be addressed gradually in future urban Bank supported
projects, mainly through further interest rate adjustments and improved
resource mobilization schemes (para. 4.20).



III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are;
- to encourage private an,d public developers to produce low-cost
housing schemes affordable to income groups on the lower half of
the urban income distribution curve (i.e. with a monthly household
income below US$330 in mid-1982 prices); and
- to develop CIH's capability to appraise low-cost housing schemes
and to advise private and public developers on all aspects of low
cost housing design.
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would consist of a
US$60 million loan to CIH. Of this amount, US$59 million would finance the
foreign costs component, and 4% of the local component of construction costs
(excluding land) of housing schemes and land development targeted to the
selected income group, and US$1.0 million would cover the foreign cost
component of a technical assistance program for CIH staff (US$0.55
million)9and the capitalized front--end fee on the proposed loan (US$0.45
million). The financing of local costs is aimed at encouraging private
developers to produce core units benefitting the lowest income groups (para.
3.20).
B. Project Scope
3.03      The size of the proposed line of credit (exclusive of technical
assistance) has been estimated on the basis of a pipeline of subprojects which
would be eligible for Bank financing (para. 3.07), and CIH's projected
activities for the mid-1983-mid-19386 period (expected commitment period for
the proposed loan).  Thirty six subprojects have been identified for the total
construction costs of US$209.5 million with a foreign component of US$73.3
million. Subproject types range from core units to walk-up apartment
buildings and include secondary and tertiary infrastructure. Subprojects are
at a preliminary design stage and were reviewed with the developers by the
appraisal mission. Land for the subprojects has been acquired by the
developers. The identification of additional subprojects to substitute for
possible dropouts is being carried out by CIH and an updated pipeline was
submitted to the Bank during negotiations (see Annex I, page 1 for details).
The pipeline so identified would call for a loan of about US$81 million (see
Annex 1, page 2). Due to the pilot nature of the project and to allow for
possible dropouts in subprojects, the proposed loan has been scaled down to
US$60 million. The proposed loan would finance 8.7% of CIH's expected housing
operations over the mid-1983-mid-1986 period, and 25% of CIH's foreign
exchange requirements for such operations.
C. Project Description
Financial Assistance
3.04      The main features of the loan have been designed on the basis of
suggestions that emerged in formal discussions on the proposed project held



- 9 -
between CIH and private and public developers. It is therefore expected that
the following package would be attractive to developers.
3.05     Overall Lending Target (see Table III.1).  The loan to CIH would
finance;
(a) Construction loans to private and public developers to build low
cost housing developments. Such developments would cover the
provision of the secondary and tertiary project site
infrastructure and a mix of housing unit types, ranging from core
units (unfinished units, including one to two rooms, whose
completion is left to the initiative of the owners) to walk-up
apartment buildings. Although such developments might include
commercial and social facilities, these would not be financed
under the proposed loan. The availability of such facilities,
however, would be a requirement in CIH's decision to finance the
schemes (para. 3.07). Upon completion of the developments
(usually 3 years), construction loans would be repaid and CIH
would make available to potential buyers of the newly constructed
housing units mortgage loans financed out of the construction loan
repayments. This conversion of funds is a key incentive to
developers to produce low cost housing units. Such mortgage loans
would substantially ease the marketing of low cost units,
particularly in the low income population which has had very
limited access to formal housing finance (para. 2.11). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the contracts for the financing
of eligible projects between developers and CIH include a covenant
whereby CIH will assure developers that their potential clientele
will benefit from CIH financing, provided such clientele meet the
eligibility criteria (para. 3.09).
(b)   Individual housing construction loans.  These loans would be
extended to individuals who desire to build their house through
self-help or small contractors.
(c)   Land development loans.  Although construction loans would include
financing for land development, it is expected that under the
proposed project, CIH would finance a few land development
projects carried out by public or private developers.
3.06     Allocation of the line of credit.  On the basis of the pipeline of
identified projects, the line of credit (US$59 million) would be allocated as
follows;
- US$56 million would finance construction loans. In addition, 25%
of this loan portion would be allocated to construction loans to
finance core unit construction programs. Construction loans would
be converted into mortgage loans; and
- US$3 million would finance individual construction loans and land
development loans.



- 10 -
3.07      Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, as recorded in the Loan Agreement, to be eligible for Bank
financing, subprojects would have to meet the following criteria:
(a)   Price Criteria:  Four types of housing units have been identified
on the basis of market studies carried out by CIH and reviewed by
the appraisal mission. The maximum selling price of these units
should not exceed US35,300 for the least expensive type (core
unit) and US$13,300 for the most expensive (walk-up apartment).
The maximum selling price of developed plots should not exceed
US$30 per m2. Prices are in mid-1982 values, include land and
land development cost, and would be adjusted on January 31, 1/
of each year to account for inflation using the increase in the
general price index (see Annex II for details);
(b)   Technical Criteria;  The general requirement that subprojects
should be technically sound (and CIH in this respect has appraisal
procedures which are broadly adequate (para. 4.03)) would be
refined to ensure that subprojects would meet specific technical
requirements regarding (i) land use efficiency, (ii) maximum size
of the units, and (iii) building structure and design (type of
building materials, numbers and types of rooms etc.). The
physical standards developed under the First and Second Urban
Development Projects (para. 2.21), particularly for land use and
core unit construction, would be applied under the proposed
project (see Annex II for details).
(c)   Economic Criteria.  All subprojects should be located in urban
areas, in cities where a substantial demand for low cost housing
exists as shown by marketing studies carried out by CIH as part of
its appraisal procedures, and in sites which are properly serviced
by physical and social infrastructure. In addition, all
subprojects, whose cost exceeds US$500,000, 21 should have an
economic rate of return (computed according to the Bank's standard
methodology) at least equal to 12% (the estimated opportunity cost
of capital); and
(d)   Financial Criteria.  All subprojects whose cost exceed US$500,000
should have a financial rate of return 3/ at least equal to 14%
(the statutory on lending rate of CIH).
The methodology (Annex II, page 3) to compute the economic rate of return on
housing projects was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
1/ Time of-publication of the official price index.
2/ In the past five years all mid,dle to low income housing schemes submitted
by developers to CIH, involved a total investment above the US$500,000
threshold.
3/ Computed on the basis of the discounted cash-flow of the project.



- 11 -
3.08      On the basis of the identified pipeline, it is expected that most of the
subprojects will be located in Rabat, Marrakech, Meknes, Fes, and Agadir, with
one-third of the units in Rabat. This spatial distribution is adequate (para.
2.02). The integration of the subprojects in the development plan of these
cities would be ensured through the housing development review process
established by municipalities for the purpose of delivering construction
permits. As shown in Table III.1, the lowest cost option among the housing units
to be financed by the project is the core unit, which would be affordable by
families with incomes at the 17th percentile of the Morocco urban income
distribution curve. At the upper end of the range is a contractor-built
three-to-five-storey building with apartments accessible to families at the 50th
percentile of the country urban income distribution. Representative household
models are shown in Annex III.
3.09      Beneficiary Selection Criteria.  Ultimate subproject beneficiaries
should meet the following criteria and should abide by the following rules:
(a)   on the basis of the affordability analysis shown in Table III.1
household monthly income should not exceed US$330 (i.e. the 50th
percentile of the urban income distribution curve as of mid-1982).
This ceiling would be reviewed annually between the Bank and CIH and
may be revised to account for the increase in the cost of living;
(b)   beneficiary should not be the owner of another dwelling;
(c)   housing units financed under the proposed project should be used for
residential purposes only; and
(d)    in the case of resale of housing units (i) mortgages financed under
the proposed project cannot be assumed by the new buyers, and
(ii) the interest subsidy (para. 3.17) would be repaid by the
beneficiaries to CIH.
TABLE III.1
Lending Target and Affordability Analysis
Type of          Maximum   Down      Loan    Percentage      Monthly    Monthly    Percentile d/
Housing          Selling   Payment   (us$)   of Income       Payment    Income     Reached
lUnit a/         US$        (x)              Spent on Housing (US$)      (uS$)
Core Unit         5,300    20        4,240       25           33.1 b/    132.3         17
36.0 c/    143.9         20
One Storey House
(partially
completed)       8,000    25       6,000       25           46.8 b/    187.4         28
50.9 c/    203.6         31
One to two
Storey House
(completed)      10,300    25        7,725       25          60.3 b/    241.2           37
65.5 c/    262.0          40
Unit in a
Multi Storey
Building          13,300    25       9,975       25           77.9 b/    311.6          47
84.6 c/    338.0          51
a/ Full details on characteristics of housing types are in Annex.II.
b/ Loan is for 25 years at 8% interest rate (unit is part of a housing scheme).
c/ Loan is for 25 years at 9% interest rate (unit is built by individuals).
d/ Based on 1971 survey of household consumption pattern, and adjusted for increases in cost of living and
in real income, assuming no changes in the urban income distribution pattern. Because of these
adjustments, income distribution figures should be interpreted with care.



- 12 -
With the exception of the income threshold, all other conditions are already
applied by CIH, and their enforcenient is satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.05
and 4.06). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that beneficiary
selection criteria will be as stated above. These criteria are included in
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.
3.10     Bank's Review and Approval.  All subprojects benefitting from
construction loans would be reviewed and approved by the Bank to ascertain
that all analyses have been properly performed and that the expected
beneficiaries are within the target group. It is expected that an average of
20 projects, ranging in cost from US$0.16 million to US$6.3 million, would
have to be reviewed each year from mid-1983 to mid-1986. As projects
benefitting from either individual construction loans or land development
loans are expected to be small, they would only be reviewed on a sample basis.
Technical Assistance Program
3.11     The proposed technical assistance program to CIH is limited in scope,
but is essential to acquaint CIH's staff with the appraisal techniques of low
cost housing developments and to enhance their ability to advise developers on
low cost construction issues. The emphasis of the program would be on cost
effective land use, building layout and structure analysis. The program would
include:
(a)   the development of a land use model to evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of various land use patterns in the proposed
subprojects; and
(b)   the development of a computerized data information system which
would allow CIH's staff to store and retrieve information on
previous housing projects financed by CIH, as well as new housing
projects proposed for Bank financing. This system would compare
the proposed subprojects (or any project) with typical projects
considered cost-effective, and would analyse the major
discrepancies so identified. Computer equipment would be procured
to assist CIH in running the required software.
3.12     An estimated twenty man-months of technical assistance from two
specialists in computer aided design for a total cost of US$185,000 would be
necessary to set up this program and train CIH's staff in the above
techniques. Costs for technical assistance including fees, subsistence and
travel are estimated according to recent experience at about US$9,250 per
man-month for this type of foreign experts. The selected consultants will
work closely with CIH's computer department. A detailed timetable for the
implementation of the program is shown in Annex IV. The technical assistance
program has been discussed with CIH (details on the program are available on
file) and terms of reference for the experts were agreed upon at
negotiations. CIH's staff is also receiving additional training in project
appraisal as part of the training component of CIH-IV.



- 13 -
3.13     It is expected that the computerized method will allow CIH's
appraisal team to devote more time to advising and counselling developers on
various aspects of low cost housing design. However, in carrying out this
task it is essential that CIH's staff acquires a broad view of all aspects of
building activities in Morocco, including the constraints facing the sector
(e.g. land and construction material availability). To this end, it was
agreed with CIH that a study will be carried out focusing on the residential
building construction sector in areas where the potential for CIH intervention
in low cost housing is the greatest. Terms of reference for this study were
discussed with CIH and agreed upon during negotiations. The study will be
completed by July 31, 1985, by CIH's Credit Department with the assistance of
one-man year of technical assistance. The total cost of the study is
estimated at US$150,000. Costs for this foreign expert including fees,
subsistence and travel are estimated according to recent experience at about
US$12,500 per man-month. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
this expert and the expert in computer aided design would be selected
according to Bank guidelines, that they would be hired not later than
October 31, 1983, and that their experience and qualifications would be
satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Project Financial Features
Lending and On-lending Arrangements
3.14     The proposed US$60 million dollar loan would be made directly to CIH
on standard Bank terms and conditions for Morocco (17 years maturity, including
four years of grace and variable interest rate). The front-end fee would be
capitalized and refinanced under the loan. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the loan. As the proposed loan would represent less
than 10% of CIH's total borrowing over the mid-1983-mid-1986 period, and since
most complementary resources are expected to be borrowed locally at fixed
interest rates, CIH would absorb fluctuations in the Bank's variable interest
rate. CIH would repay the Bank loan on the basis of a fixed amortization
schedule. However, to avoid revolving of Bank funds outside the objectives of
the project, the following rule will apply: if five years after granting the
construction loans to developers, repayments from such loans have not been
used to finance mortgage loans to beneficiaries for the purchase of housing
units (para. 3.05 (a)), such funds would be repaid to the Bank.
3.15     The proceeds of the proposed loan to finance low cost housing schemes
would be on-lent on the following terms and conditions:
Type of loans             Beneficiaries        Maturity       Interest Rate
Construction loans                 developers                3 years         14%
Mortgage loans                      individuals         Max 25 years         14%
Individual construction loans    individuals            Max 25 years        14%
Land development loans             developers                3 years         14%



- 14 -
The balance of the Bank loan would cover the foreign cost of the technical
assistance program to CIH (US$0.55 million) and the refinancing of the
front-end fee (US$0.45 million).
3.16     CIH's on-lending rate, which is presently 14%, is adjusted from time
to time 11 by the Government to reflect inflationary pressures in the
country and the resulting increasing costs of resource mobilization. On the
basis of actual and projected annual inflation rates (13.2% in 1981, 13% in
1982, 9% in 1983 and 1984 and 7.5% thereafter), CIH's effective on-lending
rate is positive. However, as indicated in para. 2.19, the actual interest
rates charged to beneficiaries for mortgage and individual construction loans,
depend on the real estate value of the housing unit (see Table III.2). The
lowest rates, referred to as regime special apply to housing units whose real
estate value is below US$21,700 provided the beneficiaries have a monthly
income below US$420.  The other rates are referred to as regime gengral.  The
interest subsidy is borne and paid directly to CIH by the Government. The
Government's record of paying CIH's; interest subsidy is satisfactory.
3.17     For the reasons mentioned in para. 2.19, the Government agreed to
make the following interest rate adjustments shown in Table III. 2:
Table III. 2
Interest Rate Structure for Housing
Real Estate Value                            Interest Rates (Percentage)
of Housing Units (US$)                       Former                     New
up to      16,700)                    6/7 a/                    6/7
) Regime 'Special
16,700      -       21,700)                     6/7                       7/8
up to      33,300)                       8                       10
) Regime General
33,300      -        50,000)                     10                        12
50,000  and above                                 14                       14
a/ The 7% interest rate applies only to individual construction loans.
1/ The last adjustment took place in April 1981, when the rate was increased
from 13% to 14%.



- 15 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.18      With the exception of the technical assistance component, the
proposed loan would finance civil works. As contracts would be small and
scattered (subprojects are expected to take place in twenty two various
locations in five major cities, and it is unlikely that contracts for any of
these subprojects would exceed US$1.5 million), they would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Public developers would be subjected to
Government procurement practices for public works, which are satisfactory to
the Bank.  Nevertheless, CIH requires that these contracts be reviewed by
independent architectural and engineering consultants. Private developers
tend to execute the construction either themselves or through a variety of
small contractors. They are required to go through a licensed architectural
firm to oversee proper execution of construction, and CIH scrutinized their
procurement practices closely. CIH's staff has also acquired considerable
experience in local construction cost estimating and procurement practices and
are able to effectively evaluate cost estimates, invoices and other supporting
documents provided by developers and their contractors. It is proposed,
therefore, that CIH's procurement practices described above, which are
satisfactory to the Bank, apply under the proposed project. The computer
equipment under the Technical Assistance component (para. 3.11), would be
procured from the original manufacturer to ensure compatibility with existing
equipment under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.19      The proposed loan of US$60 million is expected to be committed over a
period of three years (mid-1983 - mid-1986) with the final date for submission
of subprojects to the Bank set at June 30, 1986, and fully disbursed in six
and a half years with the closing date set at December 31, 1989. The
estimated disbursement schedule is in Annex V. The schedule is based on CIH
disbursement rates observed over time for each particular kind of housing
loan. This disbursement schedule conform's to the typical disbursement
schedule for DFC operations in the EMENA region.
3.20      The foreign cost component (direct and indirect) of low cost housing
has been estimated at 35% of construction cost (excluding land and including
infrastructure). However, to encourage the production of core units by
private developers, the Bank would disburse 50% of CIH loans to private
developers provided that 50% of the units in these developments are core unit
types. As CIH would provide its customary support from its own resources
(para. 4.10) it would then finance nearly the entire construction cost
(exclusive of land) of- such developments. This in turn will relieve
developers from finding bridge financing, which is usually both expensive and
bard to come by (para. 2.11). Loan proceeds would, therefore, cover;
(i) 35% of CIH loans for housing construction and land development, or
50% of such financing if the subproject is sponsored by private
developers and 50% of its units are core unit types, and



- 16 -
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for the
services and equipment required for the proposed technical
assistance program.
3.21     Disbursements on construction loans to developers will be fully
documented. Disbursements on all other loans will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure which would be retained by CIH for review by CIH's
auditors and IBRD representatives.
F. Accounlting and Auditing
3.22     CIH's accounts have been regularly audited by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Bank. CIH's accounting and internal control procedures
are adequate. The quality of CIH';s annual audit is satisfactory and audit
reports have been submitted on tim,e. The 1981 Audit Report did not qualify
CIH's accounts. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above
procedures would be continued and that CIH's audit would cover the review of
the statement of expenditures referred to in para 3.21 above.
G. Monitoring
3.23     The Bank will monitor closely CIH's adherence to the standards
proposed for subprojects as well as the characteristics of the beneficiaries
of subprojects. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a review
meeting between CIH and Bank representatives will be held annually at the
beginning of the fiscal year to assess the achievement of the objectives of
the project and to decide on corrective measures if these were warranted. In
addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations that by March 31, 1985, CIH
will take appropriate actions to evaluate the impact of interest subsidies on
low cost housing construction (para. 3.16) and of the tax relief package
(para. 2.12) and discuss the results and recommendations of this review with
the Government and the Bank.
H. Supervision
3.24     The supervision of the project would require about 60 man-weeks over
the three years of loan commitment. The basic staff required would include a
financial analyst and an architect/engineer.
IV. THE INSTITUTION
A. Institutional Aspects 1/
Corporate Status, Organization and Management
4.01     CIH started operations in 1920.  It is formally a private company
subject to corporate law. Its major shareholders, however, are public
1/ CIH's institutional aspects are fully described in; Morocco - Fourth Loan
to Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) Staff Appraisal Report. Report
No.3014-MOR.  December 18, 1980.



- 17 -
entities (CDG and BdM). Since it was last appraised by the Bank in 1980, the
only notable changes in CIH's organization and staff have been (i) a
decentralization effort which resulted in an increase in CIH's regional
branches from 9 in 1979 to 18 in mid-1982 11, (ii) the increase in staff
from 250 in 1979 to 340 in 1982 and (iii) the creation of a Commercial
Department and of an Identification Division. These changes have been
partially prompted by CIH's response to the Government's policy of using CIH
as the main channel for the promotion of low cost housing. In addition to the
Commercial Department, CIH has a Credit Department and a Financial Department,
and five main divisions under these Departments: Studies, Project Evaluation,
Identification, Loan Management and Finance. Staff deal with hotel and
housing projects and loans, a situation that broadens their exposure to
projects and loan processing issues. This situation is also favorable to the
accumulation of technical knowledge, particularly in the cost estimation
area. The quality of CIH's management has remained high (further details are
available in file).
Policy Statement
4.02     CIH's Policy Statement approved by the Board of Directors of CIH in
1974 has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. However, to
preserve CIH's creditworthiness, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
CIH's financial exposure in any single housing project be limited to 20% of
its equity and reserves, except if a full guarantee from the Government or any
institution acceptable to the Bank covers CIH's credit risk.
Project Appraisal
4.03     In the course of more than half a century's experience in dealing
with housing projects, CIH has developed a sophisticated data set concerning
building construction costs and standards and also a good feel for housing
market conditions throughout the country. It is against this background that
housing projects are evaluated. Developers requesting financial assistance
from CIH submit a report covering the technical, legal, financial and
commercial aspects of the project proposed for CIH financing.  CIH staff first
evaluate the credentials of the developers, mainly their financial status,
experience in similar projects, and the various guarantees and collateral they
are offering to back up the requested loan. If the developer is acceptable to
CIH, its report is reviewed by one of the three teams of appraisers within
CIH 2/.  This is the pre-appraisal stage.  Following this review, CIH's
comments are submitted to developers and changes (or additional analyses) are
directly discussed with them. The report, completed as necessary and
including a series of official documents (Ne Varietur building plans, land
documents, building permits etc.), is summarized by the CIH appraisers in an
appraisal report. This report discusses key project features and makes the
main recommendations regarding the requested loan (amount, maturity, and
special conditions to be met before the loan is approved). This report is
reviewed by a Technical Committee made up of the heads of the principal
1/ This includes six branch offices referred to as agences but excludes six
information centers.
2/ These teams are adequately staffed with engineers, architects and
financial analysts.



- 18 -
departments (Finance, Credit, and Commercial) which makes recommendations for
approval (or rejection) of the loan to the Managing Committee. The average
time between pre-appraisal and final approval is two to three months.
4.04     CIH's appraisals of housing projects are of high quality, but
somewhat weak regarding economic aspects. Recently, however, as a result of
discussions with Bank missions, CI]H appraisers have paid more attention to the
economic analysis of projects and have devoted more time to discussions with
developers and to advising them on project concept and design. A housing
expert l/ who participated in the preparation and appraisal of the proposed
project is already training CIH's staff in such aspects of housing project
appraisal. The technical assistance component of the project (paras. 3.11 to
3.13 ) aims at strengthening CIH's appraisal capacity further and at
reinforcing its advisory role towards developers.
Disbursement on housing loans and follow-up
4.05     The proceeds of CIH's construction and land development loans are
made available in three installments to individuals, and in four installments
to developers (the fourth installmlent amounting to 10% of the loan is withheld
until completion of work). Funds are disbursed only following field
inspections by CIH's technical division, which ensures that the portion of the
investment to be financed with the borrower's equity has been completed.
Subsequent inspections ensure that each CIH loan installment has been utilized
in accordance with the loan contract and the project appraisal report. In
case of non-compliance with agreed project design, disbursements are suspended
until the issue is resolved to the satisfaction of CIH.  The proceeds of CIH's
mortgage loans are made available directly to the sellers (usually developers,
for whom the proceeds of such loans balance out their debt to CIH). These
procedures are satisfactory.
4.06     After the projects are completed and the housing units sold to their
ultimate beneficiaries, the follow-up division, within the Credit Department,
makes random checks on units which benefit from interest subsidy to ensure
that they (i) are being used for residential purposes only, (ii) are not
being sublet, and (iii) are being occupied by the borrower. In case of a
breach in these rules, CIH requires the borrower to (i) reimburse CIH for all
interest subsidies received 2/, and (ii) pay CIH the statutory on-lending
rate on the principal of the loan still outstanding. Since CIH's housing
portfolio includes about 40,000 housing loans, there is no assurance that each
loan beneficiary will be audited but CIH's follow-up procedures act as a
deterrent, and few violations have been so far reported. Further follow-up of
housing loans is carried out by the Portfolio Division of the Financial
Department. The division closely coordinates with the legal and accounting
division to keep up-to-date data on payments and loans in arrears. Legal
remedies are strictly enforced and as a result, arrears are limited (para.
4.16). These procedures are satisfactory.
1/ Financed under Loan 1943-MOR.
2/ The proceeds would be returned to the Government or credited against
government interest subsidies due to CIH, as the case may be.



- 19 -
B.  CIH's Performance and Prospects
Lending Operations
4.07      The evolution of CIH's lending operations over the past three
calendar years is detailed on next page;
1979                 1980                  1981
Category                          Amount                Amount               Amount
No. (uS$ million) No. (uS$ million) No. (uS$ million)
Hotel and other Loans
Approved                  44         18.2       42        31.3       49         43.7
Committed                 49         26.3       27        20.6       38         26.0
Disbursed                 -          19.6       -         22.8       -          29.1
Housing Loans
Approved                  3,439      66.8       2,593     59.2       3,099      81.3
Committed                 3,211      63.3       2,306     46.1       2,462      68.5
Disbursed                   -        67.5         -       53.3         -        66.7
4.08      Hotel Loans.  These loans finance the construction, equipment and
expansion of hotels of various categories (from one star to luxury hotels).
CIH's loans for hotel projects carry maturities of up to 18 years, including
three years of grace for construction, and for equipment loans up to ten years
with no grace. CIH charges 13% for hotel loans of up to 14 years duration and
15% for other loans (as in the case of housing, the effective interest rate
borne by hotel borrowers varies between 11% and 13% p.a.).
4.09      Housing Loans.   Details of CIH's housing loan approvals are given in
the project file and summarized by type of operation in Table IV-1.
Table IV-1. CIH's Housing Loan Activity (Approvals)
(1979-1981)
1979                    1980                     1981
Loan                    Loan                      Loan
Category               No.  Total Cost Amount  No.  Total Cost Amount  No.  Total Cost  Amount
(US$ million)           (US$ million)             (us$ million)
Construction Loans       13      31.9    11.1    33      34.8     16.4     29      68.4      25.4
Mortgage Loansa/
- General Regimeb/    3,425    120.8    55.4 2,557     90.3     47.0  2,665      116.5     51.2
- Special Regime./     -        -        -      -        -         -    401       4.8       3.1
Land Development loans    1       0.5     0.2     3       2.2      0.8      4       3.4       1.6
Total              3,439    153.2    66.7 2,593    127.3      59.2  3,099      193.1     81.3
a/ include individual construction loans.
b/ loans benefiting from none to 4% interest subsidy (see para. 3.15).
c/ loans benefiting from the maximum interest subsidy (construction cost below US$21,700 - see para. 3.15).



- 20 -
During the period 1979-81, CIH approved housing loans totalling US$207.2
million. The number of housing units financed by these loans amounted to
13,728. Analysis of CIH activities shows that the annual number of housing
units financed by CIH reached a peak in 1979 (5,492 units), but decreased
sharply in 1980 (3,758). This downward turn reflects the erosion of the
market for the high standard housing units that CIH financed until mid-1981
and Morocco's difficult economic situation. The year 1981 witnessed a
reactivation of the market mainly due to the publication of the housing
investment code and the attention given to the financing of low cost housing.
Preliminary data for 1982 indicate that prospects are good for further
expansion of the housing market.
4.10     CIH's loans for construction projects by developers carry maturities
of three years. CIH can in principle finance up to 80% of the estimated cost
of the project (including land). CIH's effective financing, however, rarely
exceeds 60% of the actual project cost mainly because CIH's appraisers make
conservative estimates of project costs (see Table IV-1).
4.11     CIH's mortgage loans carry maturities of up to 15 years and cover 75%
of the estimated construction cost. However, in the case where the
construction cost of the unit does not exceed US$21,700  as under the proposed
project, the loan maturity can be extended to 25 years _/ and financing can
cover up to 90% of estimated construction costs. There is a grace period of
three to six months on such loans.
4.12     Land development loans cover up to 80% of the estimated project costs
and are repaid as a single payment after three years.
Equity Investments
4.13     In 1979, CIH stopped taking new equity participations and instead has
initiated a systematic disinvestment effort by either selling or provisioning
them. In 1980 and 1981, such provisions amounted to US$3.7 million, which
represented 24% of the gross portfolio. This is a necessary policy measure
since the quality of CIH's investment portfolio is poor with more than 94%
tied to companies experiencing technical difficulties or financial losses. In
1981, dividend income amounted to US$32,900 thus representing a yield of 0.2%
on the average gross portfolio. CIH has declared its intention to continue
this policy which would be closely monitored during supervision of the
proposed project.
Financial Position
4.14     Resource Position.  CIH's resource position as of December 31, 1981
showed a small surplus of US$5.1 muillion on a commitment basis. However, as
of March 31, 1982 there was a resource gap of US$7.9 million. During
negotiations, CIH presented data showing that this gap and additional resource
needs for the remainder of 1982 had been met by local borrowings, mainly
medium-and long-term.
1/ See para. 4.20 for a discussion on the resulting mismatch of maturities of
CIH's borrowing and lending terms.



- 21 -
4.15     Financial Performance.  Summary audited income statements and balance
sheets for FY 1977-1981 are given in Annexes VI and VII. Financial structure
indicators are shown in Annex VIII. CIH's financial performance between
1977-81 has been good, especially in the profitability area. The return on
equity reached 10.5% in 1981 compared to 6.7% in 1977, and CIH enjoyed a
spread of 4.3 points in 1981, an increase of 80% over 1977. CIH's liquidity
position is sound, with a current ratio of 1.5 at the end of 1981. Also CIH's
debt-equity ratio of 10.8:1 and debt-service ratio of 1.2 at the end of 1981
met the limit of 13.8;1 and 1.0 respectively agreed upon under the CIH-IV
loan. Similar covenants were agreed for the proposed loan.
4.16     Quality of Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1981, CIH's housing
loan portfolio represented 59.8% of its total loan portfolio. Arrears in
principal and interest of over 6 months on the housing loans portfolio
amounted to US$12.5 million as of December 31, 1981, or 6% of the outstanding
housing portfolio. These arrears present no special risks because the real
estate value of CIH's mortgage security far exceeds its risk of loss on these
loans. It is estimated that CIH's lending operations in low cost housing are
not likely to adversely affect its housing portfolio. Experience in developed
and developing countries shows that'there is no special repayment risk
attached to granting housing loans to low income groups. CIH's hotel
portfolio affected by arrears, however, increased from 20% in September 1980
to 40% of the total hotel portfolio outstanding in May 1982. An action plan
to reduce arrears associated with three state-owned groups of hotels (Chellah
Immobili6re, Holiday Inn and Office National des Chemins de Fer (ONCF)) was
agreed with the Treasury. The Government's confirmation of the agreed action
plan was obtained during negotiations. A phased reduction of CIH's hotel
arrears in the private sector was reviewed during negotiations and agreed upon.
Projected Operations and Finance
4.17     Future Lending Operations.  CIH's projected lending operations are
summarized below and detailed in Annexes IX and X. They have been discussed
with CIH staff and have been significantly scaled down to reflect resource
mob'ilization constraints (para.4.18). The impact of these operations on CIH's
projected income statements and balance sheets for the 1982-86 period is shown
in Annexes XI and XII. During the next few years (1983-86), total approvals
would increase by 22.3% per year and total disbursements by 25.9% per year.
Most of this increase in activity, which CIH's current institutional set-up
can manage, would entail a significant shift away from hotel and tourism
lending (where there would be no growth in nominal terms) toward housing
lending, especially low cost housing where lending would increase to US$40-50
million annually.



- 22 -
Table IV. 2. CIH's Projected Lending Operations (1982-86)
1982 b/  1983      1984      1985      1986
Approvals (US$ million)
Construction loans         26.7     50.0      58.3      62.5      66.7
Mortgage loans
- General Regime a/    94.6       66.7      75.0      83.3      91.7
- Special Regime a/    29.0       33.3      45.8      50.0      58.3
Land Development loans    3.5         1.7      2.5       2.5       2.5
Hotel and otber loans    26.8       28.0      33.8      38.7      43.4
TOTAL               180.6    179.7    215.4    237.0    262.6
Disbursements (US$ million)
Construction loans         25.5     34.6      48.4      58.3      63.3
Mortgage loans
- General Regime al    49.4       93.8      79.8      78.8      87.1
- Special Regime a/       3.5     47.1      41.3      50.4      56.7
Land Development loans    1.3         3.8      1.9       2.5       2.5
Hotel and other loans    18.6       44.8      33.1      34.6      39.8
TOTAL                98.3    224.1    204.5    224.6    249.4
a/ See para. 3.16.
bl Figures based on 11 months of operation.



- 23 -
4.18     Resource Mobilization.  CIH's projected resource requirements on
approval basis amount to US$1,070.2 million for 1982-86.  Identified resources
would cover 51% of the financial needs, leaving a resource gap of US$529.3
million. Details are provided in Annexes XIII and XIV. As CIH's lending is
secured exclusively in local currency, it will rely mainly on local borrowings
to fill the projected resource gap. Although the yearly amounts to be
borrowed from local institutions have not been finalized, CDG, BCP and BdM,
traditional lenders to CIH, are likely to meet its resource needs. Given the
limited absorptive capacity of the local financial market, however, CIH will
have to borrow on the international markets for an estimated amount of US$13.5
million, in addition to the proposed loan. Because these loans carry short
maturities (generally 7 years) and floating interest rates (pegged to the
LIBOR), excessive borrowings on the international markets could jeopardize
CIH's profitability and debt service capacity. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that CIH would take appropriate action to protect itself against
interest rate fluctuations. The ratio of borrowings at floating rate to total
borrowings will stay below 12% throughout 1986 (See Annex XII).
4.19     CIH's creditworthiness might also be jeopardized if it finances
public resettlement schemes when upgrading solutions are not deemed
appropriate. Experience has shown that the beneficiaries of such schemes are
often reluctant to meet their mortgage payments because they consider such
schemes as state-supported welfare operations. Although CIH treats these
schemes with the same degree of financial responsibility as any other housing
development, assurances were obtained at negotiations that resettlement loans
would be guaranteed by the Government. Furthermore, CIH will take all
necessary action to avoid arrears on mortgage loans for resettlement schemes,
and if arrears on such loans reach more than 8%, the Government will promptly
pay CIH to reduce arrears to such limit.
4.20     Discussions were held with Moroccan officials about the contemplated
introduction of a contractual housing saving scheme that would significantly
contribute to CIH's resource mobilization. CIH has prepared a feasibility
study which, at time of appraisal, was under review at the Ministry of
Finance. Given the complexity and far reaching implications of such a scheme,
and pending a Government decision, this potential resource was not included in
CIH's resource mobilization plan. A detailed financing plan for the period
1983-85 was reviewed during negotiations and its implementation was pledged by
CIH in a supplementary letter. Special attention will be given to preserving
an adequate matching of funds because the low cost housing loans, that CIH
will be increasingly granting, may have a maturity of up to 25 years. At the
end of 1981, the average maturity of resources was 7.9 years compared to 5.6
years for loans. This margin will narrow in the future because of CIH's new
focus on low-cost housing lending but, because CIH is required to meet a
minimum debt-service coverage ratio and a maximum debt-equity ratio 1/,
monitoring will be facilitated thus allowing CIH to take expeditious
corrective measures as and when required.
4.21     Projected performance.  Indicators are shown in Annex XV.  CIH is
expected to maintain the healthy profitability it has shown since 1980. By
1/ Under the CIH-IV loan.



- 24 -
the middle of the commitment period of the proposed loan, and of 1984, the
return on equity is projected to reach 30.7% in spite of a new share capital
increase implemented in 1983, and CIH would be operating with a 6.2
point-spread. Over the period 1983-86, both the debt-equity ratio and the
debt-service coverage ratio covenants would be met with no difficulty.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01     The project aims at supporting the activities of CIH, which, as the
major housing bank in Morocco, is expected to play a key role in the delivery
of housing finance to low income groups. In particular, by linking the
provision of construction loans to the provision of mortgage loans (para.
3.05), and by increasing CIH's participation in the financing of low cost
schemes sponsored by private developers (para. 3.20), the project will
encourage the private sector to move into the low cost housing construction
area. Also, by subjecting CIH's loans for low cost housing to the fulfillment
of financial and economic rate of return criteria,the project will encourage
the production of better designed housing, well targeted and with adequate
physical standards. Finally, the technical assistance component of the
project will strengthen CIH's ability to appraise low cost schemes and to
advise developers on all aspects of low cost construction design.
5.02     Although modest in its scope, it is expected that this project would
have a substantial impact on the housing sector by promoting home ownership
and redirecting funds available for housing finance towards low income
groups. The project will therefore increase resource mobilization and
allocation in the housing sector. It is expected that about 15,000 new
housing units would be made available through this project to benefit the
lower half of the urban population (in terms of income). About 37% of these
units would benefit people below the urban poverty threshold.
5.03     Economic rates of return computed for subprojects for which costs are
known with some accuracy, vary between 18% and 20%. It is expected that the
rate of return of all individual subprojects are likely to be in this range
and would therefore be well above the opportunity cost of capital. Experience
under the First and Second Urban Development Projects in Morocco which has
financed housing units with similar standards as those envisaged under the
project, show rates of the same order of magnitude (between 19% and 21%).
5.04     There are three main risks associated with the project.  The first
risk is related to the type of subprojects CIH would finance under the
project. As CIH has very limited experience in low cost housing financing,
there is a risk that it will tend to finance subprojects in the highest price
range allowed by the eligibility criteria (para. 3.07 (a)). This risk has
been reduced by (i) encouraging private developers to move into the production
of the least expensive housing units (paras. 3.05 (a) and 3.20) and providing
CIH with adequate technical assistance to improve its staff's capacity to deal
with low cost housing (paras. 3.11 to 3.13).
5.05     The second risk is associated with the target population.  There is a
danger that the pressures in demand resulting from a shortage of housing could
lead to higher income groups obtaining the shelter facilities targeted for the



- 25 -
lower income population. A further danger lies in the possibility of
speculation that might result from such a shift in target population. These
risks have been reduced under the project by (i) setting up selection
criteria for the target population (para. 3.09); (ii) introducing the
monitoring procedures referred to in para. 3.22; and (iii) building into the
project design the necessary incentives for CIH to monitor closely the
allocation of housing units (para. 3.14). Of particular importance in this
respect is the accrual to a special account of funds from construction loan
repayments. Should the mortgage loans to be financed out of these repayments
not be extended to the target population, CIH would have to repay the Bank the
corresponding amount. Such early repayment would decrease CIH's resource base
at a time where funds are difficult to mobilize (para. 4.18). In addition, as
far as the risk of speculation is concerned, CIH's monitoring procedures are
adequate to reduce it substantially (paras. 4.05 and 4.06), although it cannot
be eliminated altogether.
5.06     The third risk is related to CIH's financing of resettlement schemes
(para. 4.20). Although CIH's participation in such schemes would be on an
exceptional basis, they may represent a risk with respect to its
creditworthiness, inasmuch as beneficiaries might refuse to repay (perceiving
the cost of the new housing as a welfare grant) or being unable to repay
because of the high standards of the construction. Finally the enforcement of
guarantees (foreclosure on mortgage and eviction) is rarely if ever used in
publicly supported housing projects. This risk has been reduced by limiting
financial risks to CIH against arrears above 8% in the financing of such
schemes (para. 4.19). It is further reduced by the existing legislation and
practices of CIH which enable it to foreclose on deliquent mortgages.
VI. ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the following documents were reviewed and agreed:
(1)   An updated pipeline (para. 3.03).
(2)   The terms of reference for the technical assistance experts
(paras. 3.11 and 3.12).
(3)   The action program for reducing arrears of Chellah Immobiliere,
Holiday Inn and ONCF as confirmed by the Government (para 4.16).
(4)   A program of phased reduction of CIH hotel arrears in the
private sector (para. 4.16).
(5)   A detailed financing plan for CIH operations as well as a fully
documented resource mobilization plan for the 1983-86 period
(para. 4.20).
6.02     Agreements were obtained on the following and recorded in the Loan
Documents;
-  The Loan Agreements between CIH and developers will include a
covenant ensuring CIH refinancing of developers' newly built
housing units (para. 3.05(a)).



- 26 -
- 95% of the proposed credit line proceeds will be allocated to
construction loans of which 25% to those financing core unit
programs, and 5% of the proposed credit line proceeds will be
allocated to individual construction and land development loans
(para. 3.06).
- Eligibility criteria for subprojects and beneficiaries will be
as indicated in paras. 3.07 and 3.09.
- The experts for the technical assistance program will be
recruited according to Bank guidelines, their qualifications
will be satisfactory to the Bank, and they will start their
assignments not later than October 31, 1983 (para. 3.12 and
3.13).
- The study for the Housing Construction Industry will be
completed by July 31, 1985 (para. 3.13).
- Loan proceeds to finance the construction loans will be repaid
to the Bank if they have not been used within five years of
their granting to make mortgage loans (para. 3.14).
- The interest rate structure will be as mentioned in para. 3.17
and maintained throughout the project implementation period
(para. 3.17).
- CIH will continue to apply its accounting and auditing
procedures and CIH's audit will include a review of the
statement of expenditure related to the proposed loan (para.
3.22).
- A review meeting between CIH and Bank representatives will be
held annually at the beginning of the fiscal year to assess the
achievement of the project (para. 3.23)
- The Government and CIH will evaluate and discuss with the Bank
the impact on low cost housing construction of interest
subsidies in bousing and of the tax relief package by March 31,
1985 (para. 3.23).
- CIH's financial exposure in any single housing project will be
limited to 20% of its equity and reserves (para. 4.02).
- CIH's debt-equity ratio and debt-service ratio will remain
within the limit agreed upon under loan 1279-MOR. (para. 4.15).
- Government will pay CIH in case arrears on resettlement schemes
go above 8% (para. 4.19).
6.03      Given the above agreements, assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$60 million on standard terms to CIH.



MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
PIPELINE OF IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS
1983                    1984                        1985
SUBPROJECT                                               AVERAGE        NUMBER OF   TOTAL        NUMBER OF   TOTAL            NUMBER OF        TOTAL
CITIES            NAMES          DEVELOPER      TYPE OF LOAN            UNIT COST         UNITS      COST          UNITS      COST              UNITS          COST
(DH)              (DH'000)
Bel Ksiri      Bel Ksiri        Erac-Rabat      Construction Loans   62,000               150         9,300        175         10,850          -
Ksar Kebir    Ksar Kebir                             "       "           71,000           150        10,650        150          9,300          -              -
Soukelarba    Soukelarba                             "       "       "  80,000             -           -           100          8,000         100            8,000
Tiflet         Eddalia               "                '    80,000(1983)75,000(1984)    200           16,000        140         10,050         100            7,500
Kenitra        Oulad Dujih                  "                            75,700           500        37,850        300         22,710         200           15,140
Khemisset      Khemisset                                                 78,000            -           -           100           7,800         -              -
Teinara        Temara                                                    74,000                        -           150         11,100         150           11,100
Acilah         Acilah                                                    70,000            -           -           150          10,500         -              -
Quezzane       Quezzane                                                  70,000            -           -            -             -           150           10,500
Various Cities                       "                                   62,000            -           -           125           7,750        125            7,750
Marrakech      Merstane          Erac-Tensift                "60,000(1983)54,000(1984) 450           27,000        450         24,300          -              -
Koutoubia            "                       "70,000(1983)62,000(1984) 300           21,000        300          18,600         -              -
If         Menara               "                                   62,000            -            -          300          18,600         300          19,500            1
El Harch             "                                   45,000           200         9,000         -             -            -              -
Toubkal                                                  46,000           500        23,000         -             -            500          23,000
El Messina                                               45,000            -           -           200           9,000        200            9,000
Taouitate       Rizq             Erac-Meknes         "                   77,500            44         3,410         -             -            -              -
Boufkrane      Tarik                                  ,                  79,000            12            948        -             -            -              _
Fec            May liassani    Erac-Fes                                  70,000           300        21,000         -             -            -              -
Fes            Al Moubabitine                                            70,000           500        35,000         -             -            -
Agadir         Tafouiki          Erac-Sud                    "           39,000           137         5,343         -             -            -              -
Ifoulki                                                  39,000           162         6,318         -             -            -              -
Yahchech             "                                   37,500            45         1,689         -             -            -              -
Marrakech       Les Oliviers   O.L.M.(Public)        "                   68,000           150        10,200         -             -            -              -
68,000           150        10,200         -             -            -              -
66,000            -           -           200          13,200         -              -
64,000            -           -           100           6,400         -              -
62,000            -           -           100           6,200         -              -
Casablanca      Sidi Moumen    Chaahi(Private)               "           80,000           200        16,000        200          16,000         -              -
Sidi-Kacem          '  "                                                 70,000           150        10,500        150         10,500          -              -
Mansouriah    Mansour Dehbi  Serem (Private)    "            "           60,100            -           -           400         24,040         500           30,050
N.A.a/         N.A.a/            N.A.a/          Individual             44,350            250        10,000        300          13,200        300           14,500        e z
Construction Loans
N.A.-a/        N.A.-a/           N.A.a/          Land Development         9,500           200         1,700        240           2,240        240            2,500
Loans                                                                                                                    o
a/  Non Available.  Identified on the basis of CII's past trends of activities.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
PIPELINE OF IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS
SUMMARY COST TABLE a/
TYPE OF                        --- ---CORRESPONDING SUBPROJECT COST b/---------
LOANS
DH  (Million)                   US$ (Million)
Local  Foreign  Total             Local  Foreign
Total
Construction Loans             788.3   424.6   1,212.9           131.4    70.7  202.1
Individual Construction
Loans                         24.5    13.2       37.7            4.1      2.2    6.3
Land Development
Loans                          4.2      2.2        6.4           0.7      0.4    1.1
Total                          817.0   440.0   1,257.0           136.2    73.3  209.5
a/  The foreign cost component of ithe pipeline of identified subprojects
amounts to US$73.3 million. With Bank financing of local cost (para.
3.20) the above pipeline would call for a loan of US$81 million. However,
for reasons explained in para. 4.19, the loan to CIH has been reduced to
US$59 million with a corresponding subproject cost amounting to US$153
million.
b/ Excluding land.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
1.       Details on eligibility criteria are given in Table II.I.  Prices are
in mid-1982 value and would be adjusted on January 31, of each year to account
for inflation. To this effect, the index of general price increases would be
applied to the maximum selling price of each category of housing unit type.
2.       The housing unit types listed in Table II.1 correspond to those
actually produced by public or private developers. It is clear however that
the characteristics of some projects proposed for Bank financing might not
match exactly the types listed in Table II.I. They might still be eligible
for Bank financing if some of their basic features (i.e. building cost per
square meter, land development cost per square meter, plot size, plot layout
and selling price) are deemed close enough to those of the type identified in
Table II.I. The review by the Bank of all sizeable subprojects will allow to
identify such cases.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
MOROCCO-FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
TABLE II.I SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
HOUSING UNIT                                          CHARACTERISTICS
TYPES              _
TECHNICAL                     LAND USE                PRICE a/
(DEi)
Developed Plots           -                           60% of land should be
for residential use
Plot I               Individual water,
sewerage and electricity
connection. Access to
road.                         plot sizez 60 to 65m2    Total: 10,000
Plot II              idem                          plot size: 65m2            Total: 12,000
Plot III             idem                          plot size: 65m2            Total: 15,000
Plot IV              idem                          plot size: 100m2           Total; 18,000
Core Units             Perimeter wall, (1.8m          plot size: 60 to 65m2    Total: 32,000
high), I built room,          Built up area:             Building cost
wet room with turkish         20 to 3Om2                 15,000 (25m2)
toilet. Water, sewerage       Density 90 plots per ha  Dev. cost 10,000
and electricity connections                              Adm. cost 7,000 a!
One Storey House       2 rooms, I kitchen, wet        plot size: 60 to 65m2    Total 48,000
(partially completed) room with shower. Water,    Built up area:  40m2          Building cost
sewerage and electricity    Density 90 plots per ha  26,000 (40m2)
connections                                              Dev. cost 10,000
Adm. cost 12,000 b/
One to Two Storey
House(Completed)      2 to 3 rooms. All rooms       plot size: 65m2            Total 62,000
completed with furnish-       Built up area:  52m2       Building cost
ings. Complete wet room       Density 90 plots per ha  39,000 (52m2)
and kitchen. All service    (up to 200 units per ha) Dev. cost 7,500
connections                                              Adm. cost 15,500 b/
Unit in Multi Storey  3 to 4 rooms.  All room        plot size: lOOm2           Total 80,000
House            completed. All service        Built up area:             Building cost
connections                   65 to 70 m2                53,000 (66m2)
Density 60 plots per ha  Dev. Land 6,900
(up to 200 units per ha  Adm. cost 20,100 b/
a/ Maximum selling price
b/ 33% of building and land development costs



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Methodology for the Computation of the ERR of Housing Schemes
1.       The ERR for housing schemes is computed on the basis of the standard
comparision between project costs and benefits. Project investment costs
include land and infrastructure costs, building costs, studies and
administrative costs. Project running costs include all expenses necessary to
maintain the project (infrastructure and building) "as is". The following
adjustments to the cost computation are necessary to determine the economic
costs of the project:
(a) Land should be valued at its opportunity costs;
(b) Taxes and duties, and interest charges should be excluded since
they are internal transfers; and
(c) Investment and Running costs should be computed net of inflation.
2.       The measure of benefits is either the increase in property value
(land development projects) or the increase in annual rental value (all other
projects). The underlying assumption in this methodology is that the increase
in property value or rent level is a measure of the willingness of the general
public to pay for the services provided through the subprojects. Under this
project since all construction would be new, the increase in rent value would
be indentical to the rent paid in the project city for similar accommodations
(size, location, quality of finishing etc.). Therefore, the benefit flow
accruing to a subproject will be equated to the estimated rental value, of all
the units in the subproject. As in the case of the computation of costs, the
flow of benefits should be calculated net of inflation and transfers.



MOROCCO
FIRST ROUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
IIOUSEHOLD MODELS
Household employed                   hlousehold of an Urban                             Household of an unskilled worker
in Transport and Service Sectors                   Craftman
Socio Economic Characteristics
of The Households                   Household monthly income;  US$330             Household monthly income:  US$250                  Houisehold monthly income; US$140
Income at the 50th percentile of the         Income at the 38th percentile of the               Income at the 18th percentile of
urban income distribution curve              urban income distribution cujrve                   the urban income distribution
(Mid 1982)                                   (Mid 1982)
Typical consumption patternl/ (%)            Typical comsumption pattern!' (%)                  Typical consumption pattern (X)
Congumption Pattern                                      Housing    21.5!/                             Houising   22.6J/                                  Housing    303/
(based on 1971 expendituire                             Food         49.0                              Food        49.0                                   Food        53
survey and site surveys for                             Health        5.0                              Health       6.5                                   Health       4
preparation of Urban I and II)                           Other       24.5                              Other       21.9                                   Other        13
Estimated income spent on new                Estimated income spent-on new housing U)    Estimated income spent on new
Housing (%)                                                                                     housing (%)
Housing:  25                                   Housing:  25                                      Housing:  2532/
Estimated Expenditure                      Estimated savings available for               Estimated savings available for purchase          Estimated savings available for
Pattern Under The                                   purchase (US$)                                 puirchase (us$)                                    purchase (US$)
Proposed Project                                         Savings;  3,325                                Savings:  2,600                                   Savings:  1,100
(represents 8.5 years of savings             (represents 8.7 years of savings                   (represents 9 years of savings
(estimated rate of savings 10%))             (estimated rate of savings 10%))                   (estimated rate of savings 7%))
Type of Units Available                    Type of housing units available to the   Type of housing units available to the                 Type of housing units available
ro The Typical Houisehold                  family under the project: (see Table          family under the project (see Table                to the family under the project
Under The Proposed Project                 III.1)4/                                      III.1)4/                                           (see Table III.1)
Unit in Multi-storey building or one         One to two story house                                           Core unit
to two storey house                          One storey house partially completed
1/  With the exception of the figures in the last column which are based on recent surveys in low income areas, the typical consumption pattern reflects
that of 1971 - Recent information indicates that over the last decade the share of housing expenditure has increased. (see Morocoo - Urban Sector
Report - Opus Citu). The high percentages of housing expenditure retained in the estimated expenditure reflect this change.
2/  Does not include utilities and taxes.                                                                                                                                       >
3/  It is assumed that 5% of the income would be spent to finish the Unit.
4/  It is assumed that for a given level of income, the typical household will buy the most expensive uinit within its financial reach.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Land Use Model                                        Data Information System
Month    CIH Staff                   Consultant      Consultant    CIH Staff                     Month
0      Analysis of Bertaud Model                                  Formulation of General         0
Project Concept
I      Infornation Tour on Use
of Similar Model
2      Design of the Yodel         October 1983   October 1983  Information Tour on the Ilse  2
the Use of Similar Model
3      First Operational Runs                                     Design of the Model            3
First Implementation Test    S
B      Finalization C)f the Model
10      Final test runs                                            Finalization                  10
Training of Users
11                                                                 Final implemnentation runl   ll
July 1984
Training of Users             14
November 1984                                15
t



-34-                              ANNEX V
MOROC CO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
ESTIMATED DISE,URSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year         Estimated Disbursements a/  Cumulative Disbursement
Total         Percentage
(US$ Mil:Lion)         (US$ Million)
1983
First Semester                  -                        -                  -
Second Semester                0.8                      0.8                1.3
1984
First Semester                 5.0                      5.8               9.7
Second Semester                7.0                     12.8              21.3
1985
First Semester                 8.5                     21.3              35.5
Second Semester                9.0                     30.3              50.5
1986
First Semester                10.5                     40.8              68.0
Second Semester                8.0                     48.8              81.3
1987
First Semester                 4.0                     52.8              88.0
Second Semester                3.2                     56.0              93.3
1988
First Semester                 2.0                     58.0              96.7
Second Semester                1.2                     59.2              98.7
1989
First Semester                 0.8                     60.0             100.0



- 35                                              - )ANNEX VI
Mrl:::R0O-l-:t:1 -- FIR-.T  HClU  INCJ LOAN  ToI CREDIT  IMMrILE EILIER  ET  HOTELIEFR  ( I H)
AULI I TED  I NC CIME  8;TATEMENT-;:  1977-1981  ( DH.  ('00)
DECEMBER  3:71 1.77                                                     1j7: 157- 17l0
I  C` Ci ,M E
TNTEREST  CONl ! -IAN";                                 /:6644     1 3`:54:3    1 8251       2 :  C-:4    2 :1 94':
[F I VI D NE:'END                                          1 i.          1R/1  I                   3(u7          1J,7
OTHE:R  I N C: CMEE                                     15414         16366        1 -1          1 06e        17CJ
*FO -,TAL. INCAME-:                                 11 5'24'-    1566C.-(     2.1 1 79 2? 7.- 2,7              C z4
F > PEN`9.EE+
FI NANC I AL    HfiF EIE E;                             I7,'-- 1    jt554-    1:-  . 5         I i -75       t 4. 7:
F E7R8ONBFl AllL  E X F'EN BE -:                        1 1 5'7(-    l.1:2275      1 2 ~^ 1 .:- 1  5J-', 2 t    i ) 4
OJTHER  KFFERAT INI  EYFNE'3                              6311         42-6         541           4745
DEPFRECIArTT-ON  ANF  AMORTIZA7TI ON                      126.4         .259-                        7
i- RUry I '-; IC' lN  FOR::F  L.L-l -.138                5 77         1 4272       1. 1562      40 4/:4  1    .4/6  4
rCITAL  E:xFsFN'E:3                                102520:)    13--5E1I                                     C1 7 /2
!RRCiFIT  BEIFFRE' TAXEEE;                               12/72Ec      13:4-95      2/- -1i       29-P4Cu o    4'? O  I
INCA:_iMF TAz                                            `z :>4        947-:       1:36,40       16321        26CiC
NET  PR-OF I T                                               70C>35      10 Q22      .124:0         1 411l/      23023
Al_l...  l-ll .1 .JN  OF  NEIl PROFIT
FE 'FRVE -;13 4                                                         '61555         1          42 14         337
E I V I DEND'-.                                         49:C>i)       6-4C,:: 9l                                N A
D:IRE:CTJF-+  FEFE.-;                                                                                            NA
II N-iP F' R CFR I A T ED 1                                -14             0.1           9             K      l;
'7-C:. TfaL                                            70.=        1 OC'Ci 1C24Y( J           1 304   -:C,72C 2



- 36 -                               ANNEX VII
MOROCCO - FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
AUDITED BALANCE SHIEET: 1977-1981 (OH. '000)
DECEMBER 31                                  1977       1978      1979      1980o      1981
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--
ASSETS
CASH AND BANK                              23630    51755    52151        45473     1:3236
PAST DUE LOAN MATURITIES                   88656   122007   192637   263360   :3928:3
LESS: PROVISIONS                          -12743   -22744   -28523   -36289   -41068
CIURRENT LOAN MATURITIES                   88931    127580   193020   295816   29:3016
OTHER RECEIVABLES                          81629   109512   101419   114368   186347
LESS: PROVISIONS                           -7719   -11956   -17692   -44087   -53816
ClJRRENT ASSETS                   262384   376154   493012   638641   7906,4::
HOUSING LOANS                             651948   831755  1049692  11678-96  125:5325
HIDTEL LOANS                              478158   593806   660824   7596A9:9   $64611
COMMERCIAL LOANE;                          57194   104355   185841    17310:R   224166
TCITAL LCIAN PCIRTFCILIO         1187300  1529916  1896357  2100697  2344102
LESS4B tCURRENT MATIJRITIESB      -88931  -1-27580  -193020  -25:16  -2-3016
EQUITY INVESTMENTS                         66942    93056    87310    94945    94945
LESS  PROVISIONS--                              0         O    -2822    -60         1 6;24: B
OOVERNMENT BONDS                            8277       :7 1      9626    11247      12514
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - -- - - -  - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ .-- ---
TOTAL PORTFOLIOI                1173588  1504123:  1797451  19c)50(0I4  2142297
FIXED AND OTHER A'SSETS                      10823    21)658    24545    27-6.4    3:3154
TOTAL AS;SETS;                   1446795  190-)o935  2315008  2571 009  226t.60'-K9
LIABILITIES
___________
*-;HORT TERM BEORROWINGS;                  13910    37736        3 -1-4    24 :3        /
CURRENT MATIJRITIES OF DEBT                74954   151362   227602   263--71   212820
CITHER LIABILITIES AND PAYABLES            60714    71748   1:3-0352   16/16 -3   303605
O lUlRRENT LIABILITIES            14C9578   2-60846   361148   454'942   521794
- - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -
REDISB-U1-1IINTED NCITEE;                 150000   180000   21 0oo(-00)   22C)(    ' QC)C)O- 25cf)
GOVERNMENT LOANS                           67391    65424    6346:3:   615(:7    78443
BOND ISSUES                               541942.   696418:  912742  10782Ou::  I        L :-:5e
OTHER LOCAL BORROWINGSB                   189798   1944(0)4   210150C   214576   194399
TOTAL LOCAL BORROWINGS            949132  11:36246  1396I355  15742-1  1829-19: 9:
IERD LOANS;                                 107425   15-393:5   174805   1:C019-7   28C)5-
OTHER FOREIGN LOANS                         199:--.349Z  3449849   452866   413 E89    :321611 I
TOTAL FOREIGN LOANS               306774   503784   627671   D594:!95   60, 2115'7
. - . _ _ _ _ _   - _ _ _ -   _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ -- - - - - -  - - - - - --
TIOTAL TERM DEBT                 1255906  16400:30)  2024026  21" 8 2--86  2431:317
LESS CI-IRRENT MATURITIES         -74954  -- 151:62  -22760D2  -263 9-71  -212 I:2n
-;HARE CAAP I TAL                            80000   11    10000   1 O     iool Co    160 000
RESBERVES                                    36265    41421       47436    5116/5()    659::)28
EIDI I TY                         116265   151421    1574:36   211 165C)  225e8:3B
TlOlTAL LIABILITIES              1446,795  191-)0395  25:15008 2571(0C07  29--6609-0'



MORF::CO: -F-F REIrl HI:3; 1 NG L  OAN Tc' CREDI   IMMIDDIL.IER ET HOTELIER  (CIHi
F I NANC I AL  'E:RFCIRMANC E I ND I I: ATOR--; (ALID I TED  DErTA)
YEAR;^                                                                                       1 9277      1978rt      1 '77Q       1 C980!-i   19E 1
1:FEPRATr I ')NAL  I ND I CPATfOR'-;
C iRf 9 -; -; INC_:- oME AS % OF AVERAGE -19IAL A :;::ETR                               :-:.           40- c. .             10   0       10 30 BO
AlDM] N] -TRATI'VE EXPENSE:A. A",. OF  YF-RA0 jE           T1L AVEBETE                   J     j        C!       o  -Ci      o BC         1. U!)
FINANCIAL. E:XPEN.E-; A-;   iF AVE:RAGE Tc-rAL. A--;-ET-                                6. C)        6. .:!      6. 6o       6..  0C)     7 00
INC OME FROM1 LClfiN,N hA,  C" iCF AVER0AE LE0AN PORTFoL IOI ( A)                           C) 50  1 0 :0       1 1 C0      12. 00      12. 70
- OT ,::F LONE-TE:RM   I: T AS; % OF- AVERAGE LCNG TERM  IElET  (E)                     7 10                     7. .60      7. 90 CB. 4C
'PREDAEi (A--EB) ( X: 407 1                                                                            ccZ       2 40        4. 0J        4. :30
PROF I TAB IL. I TY  I Ni:ITI (IC RT,R
NET PROFII T ;    ' CIF AVERAGE EDII.-fTY                                               e. 70C       7. 60C)     :.10        7. 1C)      10. 50
PROFIT EEFFORE TAX  h-: %. OF AVERA,) E Q-:QJ ITY                                      12. 10       14 10       1/ 90       15 90I       22. 40
f A -;H  D IDIVIDEND AC; X OF NET PROF IT                                              6. 20       47           51. 30      67. :0      -:. 20
NET' PROFIT A'3 , OF AVERAj-E TOTAL  AS-;ET,                                            C0. 6C       C. 6C       0. 60      0f. 50        0 :BO
F INANCI AL h IRUICTURE I ND I C- AOR'
TCOTAL  DEIE:T/ YEAR--ENI:D EOLI-rY                                                     t.1 40      11. 6-0     1:. 70      11. 10       12. 10
LNG1-TERM  DEEDT /YEAR-ENE! E1::          1U I TY                                      1 f0         1 C         1.2 90      10 20        10.  0
DEEcT--EOUITY  RAT ICO   IE:RD AGOREEMENT)                                              7. 1 o. 20              12. 20      10. 20C)       . :8:0
DEET -- ERVIY   E C !:.l:VFRiA 'F R TA1   ( I TEFD F .i REEMENT           1              1. 07       I. 17       1. 09        1 Ic)       J 26
I NTERE3J;T C:CIVERACOE. RAT IcO                                                        1 17         1. 18:      1 19 E      t1. 1::      1. 25
I EBFD DEET A '    OF LCINL -- JERM  DE[E-T                                             : )          -. 40 !. 60            :B -        11. 5C0
FOREIGN  CURRENCY  DE:EBT A-; % CIF LCNG--TERM  IDEDT                                  C4 4t        -   70      :t 20       27. 40      24. 80
FLOAT I Nl- I NTERE:PT DEET h- B     !DF LODNW-TERM  DEFET                             12. 50       67            . 20       4. ::0       1  cCI
ClJRREN T RAT ICI                                                                        1. 75       1 44        1 :-37       1. 40       1 52
PR -I131 CM.N C\ F      F.FRTFOL 1 '--, % CF Ti.IT0L FTRTF   IC! oL                                     i!       1 44         1 722       2 02
PAOT--DjlE MATIIRI-r IIEl; A-, % CriF LIDAN PCRTFOL. IC!                               7                       i. 10       12. 5f0    16 b  :0
P F. II V IB I O!Nj-. F!FW; L  O    C!F C UFREN` 038ET ';                               7  2!. 5                 2 !        1   20       10 70



- 38 -                           ANNEX IX
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING CIH PROJECTIONS
1.       Loan approvals and disbursements as discussed with CIH staff (see
Annex VIII). Low-cost housing loans are assumed to be repaid over the
maximum 25 years authorized by law.
2.       All loans are charged the statutory 14% interest rate.  Penalty
interest income is assumed to increase from the 1981 level at pace of total
loan portfolio. Wages will increase by 15% p.a. over the estimated amount
for 1982. Provisions for losses are linked the portfolio growth. Allocation
of profit to reserves will be according to statute and CIH will continue to
distribute dividends at 8% of par value.
3.       Loan collection is assumed to be 100%.  Charges on future borrowings
are assumed to be;
Interest Rate            Maturity
%                 (including
Grace Period)
Bond issues                                       11.5                 15
Medium-term bonds                                 10.5                   5 (balloon)
BCP                                               10.5                  5
BdM                                               10.0                  -
Treasury                                          10.0                 20 (5)
IBRD                                              11.0                 17 (4)
International Markets                             16.0 /1               7
/1 In 1983, then increasing by 1 point each year.
4.       The share capital will be increased by DH 60 million in 1984 and
1986. The resource gap will be financed by borrowing on the international
markets at floating interest rates (i.e. pegged to the LIBOR).



_ 39 _
,NNEX X
MOR-DC..CCi    FIR` -T Hl-CJ NG  LOQAN  TO  C.REDtIT   ,MLEIILI,T     E,F H L.rRL.J I-F:  I01H)
-RC.RJECTED  LENDINCG  OPERATIONE .-   ::32   - 9                 -:r2    iDH LI 0-0
......  ......  . ..- . .. . .. . _ . ... . . . .  ..   . . _ _ . _. _ .    
L ?_:1     19E2  1.            L '93  '        1?: :4         19E:5          1 ?:-,
AC0r UL)
I FN'2J F  F 41 ~\4   I rifZF., C-DP4)                                                                j  --- 2I  5750  4001 4)01   .U i  ss:cc,c~ ~
F'REFIlN4NC I NI              (OPF                            I   2 7  7      1 6   .'       3   c C "0     35C017                        400000C f
I; ITE3S   m-ERVICE ~         r17.-i C)                                                        .C): 100                      15000 C         15000 C
___ '  c;or  HOCT; J14t    ( i HO   I~:22                                 1  372;. 1 0-    2C00000      27-00C1           000          100
i   .:r~~~~ NE.   cc H                24 I:7~~~~~~~~o  1 4 75 40    1500(jrco      I :3A0 2Oo:'C'                  2 O C
_ :UIIMEF& .... ..1. _OONC _.1:F _.5/2 _1 _(3                                                  1 31''I~.       c::flfl(      lsCC(:  
TOU1: -I SM  LCIAN: .S           IF A  )                          -.,;:. .       5`05  4        5,, 0  0                                      C) C) 5) C)0
TORE,-I4  P.FFL                                     .        75t F42 7 : -   1     E: P   1 .-        C. C  1F R   C        7 V   4A o:'o  L75  C:
tQf~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,4 lXE       Ileh       Jj     .    7    l4I ;4     1511i Ji, D      _ t_ t3     J. -t   C, C) !0  ii  -(12X,t 5(->
C :OP1MERI-: I ON            Ll , -,l ,f t 4::              2- FCi :;1 t~''. -t    i~ ,2  _:;2t   ;-'. ,1< 'C'             7j  3 c -    0C  52  5C)
ITRI- I   C;M    L3I  I        ,:;-r -r                         1 .:-:20         -4             ./ .             C'-/l  TiOF:OO             Th'I->
iTES         -RV;""I  'F-'VT                                       .4 51t .                                                  01o
LuWt4  CO:E;T  VA 0 U1-.1N' C    (HEM1M                           -0:          _                                 s- 1.: I     ,,_5,3      . 
HOTEL  LOANS                  ' C0C:H I                       I C::24 7      .! 0177 X      2494224         17 71D:91--.   ' f  C3 2),2: C)C
f:THEF;   0MME:;IAL  I                 (i.NA, CF ( OUF   i-rT)  145J-D         1C), D5                       2.-,0C          27400          3e4C:
T:JT,L   LI IlL  IFi 2 EMrr,;TEN-. ............                                                         .       .. 5B2:-304 2 5.  ,:iOO:O  1:44  1:-7    1    74:7C: ...7. 14 1495` 0C
I,   D,4-.ED  0,N  FIR,S T  ELEiL, M,ONTI1.



;- 40 -
ANNEX XI
MOROCCO - FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH) 
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS - 1982-1986 (DH 000)
1981     1982      1963     1984      1985     1986
INCOME                                 (ACTUAL)
INTEREST RECEIVED                      247802   300288   401288   518148   621792   724:389
INTEREST SUBSIDY ON HBM                     0      1339    13341    34064    55207    79546
PENALTY INTEREST                        36572    46621    62208    75230    86794   10o365
COMMISSIONS                              8356      5900    13449    12272    13474    14959-
OTHER INCOMES                            8898      9000    10000    10200    11200    11200
TOTAL INCOME .......................   301628   363149   500286   649914   788467   930458
EXPENSES
WAGES                                   19423    25000    28750    33063    38022    4:3725
TAXES                                     456       600'     700       S00      900      1000
GENERAL EXPENSES                         7402      7600     8700      9800    10900    12000
SUB-TOTAL                                 .27281    33200    38150    43663    49822    56725
INTEREST PAID                          194222   246259   259819   347431   352797   424115
DEPRECIATION OF ASSETS                    950      2189     2269      2349     2429      2509
DEPRECIATION OF FEES ON NEW ISSUES       3026      3492     4156      48:32    5973      70:38
SUB-TOTAL                                  3976      5681     6425      7181     8402      95'm'7
PROVISIONS FOR RISK ON PORTFOLICi       24694    2868S3    34869    4003`7   44627    50013'--:
TOTAL OF EXPENSES ...................    55951    6756E3    7944:3    90880   102850   116334
PROFIT BEFORE TAXESB                    51455    49327   161024   211602   332820   390009
INCOME TAX (IPE)                        23644    23677    77291   101569   159753:  187204
EXCEPTIiDNAL TAX (ISN)                   2364      2:368    7729    10157    15''75    1872C0
SUB-TOTAL                                26008    26045    85020   111726   175729   2059,25
NET PROFIT                                25447    2-.32:33:   7600:3   9'.B76   157091   1: 4C84
ALLOC:ATION OF PROFIT TO:
INVESTMENT RESERVE                       4121    :3951    1288E7    1626631                -06
LEGAL RESERVE                            1272      1164     3800      4994     7855      9204
CONSTRUCTION RESERVE                     1066       967     3156      4147     6523      7644
DIVIDEND & FEES TO DIRECTORS            1:376C0    1 376C0   18060    180f,(-   22:3I60    22:36C
OPTIOINAL RESERVE                        5227      3441    3100o   55742   .9:72,   11:670



- 41 -                                                      ANNEX XII
MCOROCCO - FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ETT HOTELIER _CITH)
PROJEC TED BALANCE SHEETS. (1981-198.6)
'EAF                                            I.8 lll  I  i982     1983      1984       1985      1'68&
(ACTTUAL'
LIACILITIES
'URPENT LIAE:ILITIE3
EANt -3     CRE DITORI:. CHARO,ES DUJE   495015   855102    ""10066  13:55509  1371474  165-3:5"0
CL- RENT MATURITIE, OF PEELT            212I2      '18464   260949    316119   379o"'7   53:3 4C
-R'lvI  IUN F;DR INClIME TAXEB            2t.00S    26045    S502C   111726    17572"    205925
TOTAL C URRENT LIABTLITIE'                '217"4  1    I"A11  l336' 36  17:44344  1'2689"'  2448455
.IONC-TERM D:CIRRuFIWING,
}   DOME TIC BORRIF'WINII
flN''-TERMtl C:ONDS                 1 31C.776  15t.484'  144'Sl  21555t.19 250c 4:D   2"} '1754
MENL-,i' F-TEF- ZIC'ND-                372w""   1872Q C'  "3072"9    442'9'C'  t.o9C) :
'-E:JE                                  7t.72     -,2"I       It.t.4     4 :         ' 
E:,: P                                13-5:350-   JB750    534000    25D00c        6.) ( 
TREPA J-F I                            "-'061.    '47s'   159C).-,   155--:--:0   149415    1 4
I l:,I-,                                     ':0187         l:>       c                     C    
EANOIUE CD1 wIARIII C                 25'M''0c)   ' ''H'''  '1' ')OC'   36''00   42':'OO   4:(.' IcC,
F- "NOl CIE G.ARANTIE                   5- 1         ' A      53'74     559.2      '           ' 7  -
'-1 HER L'CIMEITIC SCFROIWINC'                                                        C)
Tro-AL IUMET TIC P:DR'OI WINE'        1:4'B2 ,'1''7 2,74C)   6::24 2  ::144536
OlDRE I ON :ORRFhC'W I NOBt .
'O-IRE DN C'lFRENCI-FIXED RATE        275:'07   2              I      21'6E: 6'L1             7
POjREI-IN CURRENC\-F'LuOATINi-> RATE    45B' ',   14;zV?l.   4 21B2'   41500-   50e->47   645757
I DRD                                 28050::-:  -:74C-7;::   5 1:-, 2:-i  72:-E :1I1   -/5~4 -: D     57 2 6 ,e. 
"'IoTAL FOREIlN BO'RROWINOB               2 I     65:3521        1221    1 :'5501  I 6 0(  174617:-
TC'TAL L.INO--TERM  DEE:TE              24131e. 2'B54271   3874614  45000-:7  5 :26r3  6CY  7222
LEES. C JRRENT `1ATHFRITIE'           -2 2 21  -21844  -264`-  --41.11' ""-            7 '7:3:B94
'B*E .UTOTAL                           221"'0,95  26 351l07   61 -:65  41E: "18  494723'9  550:--:28
EOUITY
'.HARE CAFITAL                           I6(0C)C'   1600C0   2'ICIYC) 2100C''    '6'000    C'''''"
RE ,ERVES
LE"AL RE" ERVES                         4443       5715       687      106802
loPTIONAL RESERVEB                     23144      28371      31:12    t "912   I25'94        17
*NVEE.TMENT REBERVES                   1"126      23247     271 '9    40085      C7014
C'N 1 TRIICTI:UN RESERVESE                  0      106        20        518" '         B    15S55:4
TuTAL RESERVES                          46713      5:B400       7"23'  125866   207  2   `4241
UNDI'BRIO:UTEC  PROFF 1                   136:?7e O  13'?7 6'  1C3061D   12:s66'    22:60    :2:
TOTAL EOUITY                              22'508   2-:2160   2"5"'83    B53P26   490042   624773
TOiTAL LIAILI-TIE'3                        29t66 0"'   3744178  4967760  5985412  689644.  79790O'7
ASSET'B
CIURRENT ASSETS
*CASH. BANKt ODTHER DEE-'TC'R" E34 -3                45250    5r"3 75     64557      7 1 10    ' 3C'I: 
MATUR IT I El PDJE s ARREARS            5<39070   r:87 1Q ' _  1 r"4I    110392 1 27  340   147'3t '1'
LE:TS PROVISBIONB                     -"C43-76  -1 I   0   1 -:2747  -1501301  -1I 67047  - 18   1
SUB-TODTAL                             4441Q4   57389'"'   7'4 '''1"''  B591   111229:3  129553:-:
CLIRRENT MATUPITIEBE OF LOANS           29O--016   --26 1 t    79 -"7j1  5' 1 'o56   60"'880   72
TOTAL CUJRRENT ASSETS                     770648   ?9452 "E   I 23 26.4  161t5105   179228B   2C'"c"'
PFORTFOL IB
LOANS FORTFOLIO
CONSTPUCTION        (OPC)            12555Q5  14"'84 '     ""e " 55,-  215t6.54  240300'  2t676-70
PREFINANlCING       (OPF)             13324i.  40'1 '7   5'27 35   74461'-4   848027  102 0c
SITES & SERVIC.ES (OPVT)                678"'     18429      :7453    413--17    49100)    41501
LOW COST HOUSING, kHBM'                  6"'11    26-.'    3052'42   54:42 4    :I '454  114S50/
HOTEL. LOANS        FOCH)             864c.11   io748 1   11L.7417  126-:7370  1 35877-:  145617'
4                     OTHER CON LOANS                         770,5'     5646C    59:3S2 7    638E24    737        3974CI
TOTAL LOANE. FORTFOLIO                2344102  298E'22t. 39E72'7  482 1Q26  556_:1C'5   43-I",l'7
LES:S CURRENT MATURITIES.           -29 3C1I6  -3261A9  -37--1 "rD  -5'-'1'-56  -"c'SH'    -2 35-:
SIPB-TOITAL                          20:'51 ''t.  266'2I 57  36't,"77  422C"'70 4C"4,"' -22   5711- 564
EQIJITY FPDRTFOLIO                       '14,45    9'445        1'4i45    '14945    '1445    `'4"49
LESE. PROVISIONS.                    -1624E:   -26t427   ---:t.06   -46785    -56.*64   -6714
SUB-TOTAL                              78k""7    4851:B    5:Oo-       4:3::                 7'0)   7 81I   -7:B
EQUIPMENT BONDS                          lC'514     1-.1-1     1 '"''  24856         7589      5794t1
NATIOtNAL LOAN                             2U00      200'       20CYD      20(0      200"''
TOTAL PORTFOLICO                         2142297  274570t.  2:e.E" :814  4304I'86  S '5C'-:7rQ   5 79
FIXEP ASSETS                                11734      36734     377 34     38.734     39'7234    47/ -:4
LESS DEFPRECIATION                        -48:12    -7001      -"'26"'    11618   -14047   -1655L:
NET FIXED ASSETS                            n922    2-733       28405      27116     256:B7    2417:--
DEFERRED CHAROES                            26232      28.500    32218      33S206    47731      5:-:4
TCITAL A,'SSETO                            2"660,89  3749178-  4967760  5'3'5412  78-204'"'  ""7



- 42 -
ANNEX XIII
MOROCCO-FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
-------_------------------------------------------------------__--
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS: 1982-1986 (DH 000)
YEAAR                                               1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
(-! URCOES OF FUNDS
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES-                              49327   161024   211602   332820   390009
DEPRECIATION                                       5681      6425     7181      8402      9597
PROVIS-;ICINS FOR RISK O-lN POIRTFOLIO            28683    34869    40037    44627    500C13
_ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -
TOTAL GROSS CASH FLOWS                              83691   202317   258820   385848   449618
PRINCIPAL LOAN COLLECTION                        329671   438555   517023   677228   675834
.:HARE CAPITAL INCREASE                               0    50000         0    50000          0
AVAILABLE CASH                                     1630    14446         0         0   364699
rO-lRROW I NG.B
LONG-TERM BONDS                                  360000   414000   470000   540000   620000
MEDIUM-TERM BONDS.                               150000   120000   150000   180000   220000
BCP LOANS                                             0         0        0         0         0
TREASURY LOANS                                    15000    78000         0         0         0
CDLG LOANS                                            0         0        0         0
BANQI IE DUi MAROC                                10(oo    50000    50000    60000    60000
Q THER BORROWINGS (SHORT TERM)                   556000         0        0         0         0
FOREIGN CURRENCY/FLOATING RATES                       O         0   100000   170000   240000
IBRD (INCLUDING PROPFOSED LOAN)                  100000   154800   223000   257000    72000
TOTAL BORROWINGS .. . ...                        1191000   816800   993000  1207000  121200CC
TOTAL SOURCES ..........                         1605992  1522118  1768844  2320076  2702152
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
_____________________
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CONSTRUCTION       (OPC)                         296627   562684   478909   472500   522500
PREFINANCING       (OPF)                         15:3245   207731   290296   350000   890000
SITES & SERVICES (OPVT)                            8042    22599    11500    15000    1500O
LOW COST HOUSING  (HBM)                           21046   282864   247500   302500   340000
HOTEL LOANS        (OCH)                         100177   249422   178983   180000   202000
OTHER CODMMERCIAL LOANS (OiC:F/OTT)               10863    19575    200001   2740)0   36400
TOTAL DI -BURSEMENT  .       .     .        .   .  590000  1344874  1227187  1347400  1495900
REPAYMENT OF BORROWINGS
LONG-TERM BONDSE                                 1119727   1336866   159420   18907C3   22473 -3
MED IUM-TERM BONDS                                    C         I)   14700    1 350fl    90 '0
BCP LOANS                                         45600    35)750    29000    19()00      60 u00
TREASURY LOANS                                     3267      3646     3763      5915      60SS
CDG LOANS                                          5087         0
BANQUE DU MARO0                                       :                   C)
OTHER BORROWINGS.                                               0.                 C-
FOREIGN CURRENCY/FLOATING -RATES                           0   O          '    14286    33 71
I :RD                                              643C)    1 Oe.50    11417    -:247 -42
BNDE                                               2752      2256      1171      39-4       '7
FOREIGN CURRENCY - FIXED RATE                    269557   252159   2106E1   leQ203   12772'S
TOTAL BORROWINGSC REPAYMENT                       44462C   43:3329   430152   443844   4e,5944
BIVIEiENDi & FEES TO DIRECTORS;                   1376u0    1 8060    1S060    22360 262o D'0
COST BsONDS & SHARE ISSUES                         5760      7S-7 4    1OS20    15500    .7.B40
INCOME TAXES.                                     260kE    2'6u45 .   502CU  11172'6  175 7'2
PURCHASE OF F I XED ASSETS                        250CII)    1 oIC)    I C)CO-  1 clOo    I C)1C
PURCHASE OF EQOUIFMENT BONDS                       :97       _161   1:) I     1 3547    21 :04
REPAYMENT OF SHORT TERM LOAN-                    483100   104600
TOTAL APPLICATIFo N B                   .        1591545  1,P4:394:3  17- .54  i 9 55:377     7
RESOJURCE GAP (-) OR SURPLUl-.- (+                14446  --421: 25   -1 3706   _:64.4e-9 6 -" -7



- 43 -
ANNEX XIV
MOROCCO - FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMODILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
PROJECTED FINANCING PLAN FOR 1982-1986
DH. '000 US$ MILLION
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  (1)                                 6451580  1075.26
RESOURCE SURPLUS AS OF END 1981                              30559      5.09
SUB-TOTAL                                                 6421021  1070.17
FINANCING PLAN
NET CASH FLOW GENERATION  (2)                               136683    22.78
NET LOAN COLLECTION  (3)                                   1427645   237.94
SHARE CAPITAL INCREASE                                      100000    16.67
DISBURSEMENTS ON CURRENT IBRD LOAN (4)                      490000    81.67
RESOURCES MOBILIZED IN 1982 (5)                            1091176   181.86
TOTAL                                                     3245504   540.92
RESOURCE GAP (-)                                          -3175517  -529.25
ADDITIONAL RESOURCE MOBILIZATION PLAN
PROJECTED LOCAL BORROWINGS  (6)                            2734533   455.76
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN                                          360000    60.00
SUB-TOTAL                                                 3094533   515.76
RESOURCES TO BE BORROWED ON INTERNATIONAL MARKETS            30984    13.50
(1) TOTAL APPROVALS DURING 1982-86.
(2) GROSS CASH FLOW LESS DIVIDENDS, TAX, ETC.
(3) PRINCIPAL LOAN COLLECTION (90X OF SCHEEULILE) LESS REPAYMENTS ON BORROWINGS.
(4) CIH IV (LOAN 1943-MOR).
(5) MEDIUM & LONCG TERM BONDS, BCP, BANQUE DLI MAROC:.
(6) NET OF PRINCIPAL REPAYMENTS.



I r. i. IN       ir::,- LC REDl  IT   I  1!^T-.r IT L I FP   I'-T  HC, Tl  i TER .             T. H:
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1 K.-.,-         ]IiF:   1XjN   E TMr:-;   F-
xjrq8~ !- 7ji-:       CF     0i(E         E   T(:TPL.                                                                                 | EITC  4  1 1-7E  I   11.   71 Z.   '4                1 2. 51
'';i::  ':i:   f      '    il-  ' i,   ,.. :1 '.1  :V: 1)  -,A : l    Ti  "
iF~~~ ] Ni   II  ] Q[     j   ~~~~~~~I,II)l.(i:r,Pl-F-  TI-ITAL   (:C.C~T                                                                            U.                  0   77              0. 76
f                                                          E fl    , ,C; F[ C.  TCT1-'  A:' UP3:E ,                                              5-  9'I            6.   4              5i*  48             59. 70
..                    .. .       ..  .      .          .               .                                         . .           .                    4.                14. .7                  . 
!i--'l :'7   0 1\1  tr1--  ti.;   ,              V F: RAIfs;E;  E  ET Lf AlE-; - POR   17                                    .            1 4                 1. 71.-41.5
~iri-iil~  Li-lN  ti--i      E-;      -    :             Ff    AVS-rlE-   lRfAGE    -t|-Ef                                       '- 7'                     e,                              4' - 
I   r i j       H P-l,'  l    k 'i E- i; r"   i [Ei- i-   f ' ' '   i,  E IF   h  YER F4A iE--  LONC-lbil:-:i-   EF M   ElEE:T                       7        .    H       (            7. I                7. 42
I-7   L                                                                                                                     -                                        .  27   7  ;                          7. 90
. r, -i--; ~r' '(    I r   lo i l [i  f P 
_   .   .   ......  .  ......... . . .. ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                  3   0
r *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.fi  u I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-
I'i:"' E  F  L     F   F                     EF-' E: F F  i  )Y F                             ' "                     !  E  '. '                                                           .f7   . '  7  _:   3_: 1 . 93
I       L."                                  iIY                                                                                              I  J  7 4          5 .  12           7:. :7              6Z.  97
E r F  -;'6'lF- L T   i~     .    '.    F    fE I LFiNC.,  B      R '-.1;F'    -   ME. I                                             '            174                 1.                 2.44                2.47           -
!: i;        I 4i-jl  i;: ] hi.    ,1 i  E ri 7t '!) .   7                                                                                                                                                          7 ,
:E:EL  -::;I II   f yr  {                FlsSr-:        - L. [N  Pl:: E'R: 4CF:iE:EPIENT-                                  1      - 4          1      -7           1 :.  '9}         - 14Q.. 2')          14. 3:3:
I I                  i!  r i                                                                                                              |-t.tt.>|-1   !  '    i-'1 31; ;*     .. (_' 12i. 7 1  10t.. . 37   71-
I.IE:E:-f  - F  ,i.t-Et  :-, f AiwE   f-fl-!'  !-!  1' [I-lF:ff  -12^FE EMI-I                                                               1. :::              1.49                1. 49              1   7.
I              1    1.r cIIFAI:   ij                                                                                                                                       I .FEEM7F9
--LIDi-T            I RlT EE     th 7               :     ! iDNI--TEEM    EME  1                                                C'. 5             10   :                9.  22 ,,           b:  F I          10. 59
FP.-'C0,11 'I CI          F              E.!.i` : -  E F 3. * F  T:r- (, i C 'FT-;L. :.4 6,e                                                                            4 G                4. 45               4. -,-



- 45 -                           ANNEX XVI
MOROCCO
FIRST HOUSING LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Consultant Reports.
(1) C. Hovnanian: Reports on the architectural aspects of the project.
(3 Reports).
(2)  A. Komorn;      Report on the Technical Assistance program of the
project.
B.  CIH Documents
(1) Technical files on subprojects eligible for Bank financing.
(2) Summary of the pipeline of.subprojects.
(3) Statistics on CIH's lending operations (1979-81).
(4) CIH Organization chart and staffing.
(5) Legal documents pertaining to CIH operations (loan agreement, status
and by laws, and credit regulation).
(6) CIH's audited financial accounts (1978-81).
C.  Bank documents
(1)  Aide Menoire left with CIH and Government during the appraisal of the
proposed project (June-July 1982).
(2) SAR - Fourth loan to Credit Immobilier et Hotelier, December 18, 1980
(Report No. 3014-MOR).
(3)  Working papers covering the main aspects of CIH activites.
(4) Morocco-Urban Sector Report - (Report No. 3860-MOR).
D. General Documents.
(1) Procurement Guidelines for Public enterprises.
(2) Financial statistics from Banque du Maroc.



