Document of                       L-
The World flank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3461-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60.0 MILLION
TO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uLsed by recipients only in the perfermance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$l = DH6.00
DHI  = US$o.17
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE =  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CDG  =  Caisse de Dep8t et de Gestion
CIH  =  Credit Immobilier et Hotelier
ERAC =  Etablissements Regionaux d'Amenagement et de Construction
MHAT =  Ministere de l'Habitat et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HOUSING DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH)
Guarantor:           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$60.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:               Amortization in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:   About $59.0 million will be on-lent by CIH to developers
for housing construction and land development for three
years, and to individual households for self-construction
for a maximum 25 years at the prevailing interest rate of
14%. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
on the loan but CIH would bear the risk of fluctuations of
the interest rate of the Bank loan.
Project
Description:         The project is designed to (a) increase the housing stock
serving low-income groups in Morocco; (b) assist CIH in
its efforts to encourage both private and public
developers to produce low income housing; and (c) develop
CIH's appraisal ability in this field. To achieve these
objectives the project would finance construction of
low-cost housing schemes for subsequent sale of housing
units targeted at the selected income group through CIH
and a technical assistance program to CIH. The direct
benefits from the project would be the provision of about
13,000 new housing units affordable to households in the
lower half of the urban income distribution, with monthly
incomes below $330. About 40% of these units would
benefit population with incomes below the urban poverty
threshold, about $170 per household per month. The
project would also promote home ownership as a means of
mobilizing individual savings and help to reduce
government subsidy in the housing sector through increased
interest rates. Project risks related to reaching target
population and CIH's financial viability are acceptable.
The eligibility criteria and the monitoring procedures are
designed to ensure that housing schemes constructed under
the project are targeted to low-income groups. Various
financial assurances are also designed to protect CIH's
financial viability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ljsed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
-----------------US$ Million-----------------
Annual                    0.8   12.0   17.5   18.5    7.2    3.2    0.8
Cumulative               0.8   12.8   30.3   48.8   56.0   59.2   60.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 4151-MOR dated February 8, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US!6O.0 MILLION
TO CREDIT IMMOBIL]ER ET HOTELIER
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), with the guarantee of the Kingdom of
Morocco, for the equivalent of US$60.0 million including the capitalized
front-end fee, to help finance a first housing development project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. About $59 million of the proceeds of the loan would
be onlent to developers for housing const:ruction and land development for
three years, and to individual households for self-construction for 25 years,
with an interest rate of 14% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A report on Morocco's Public Sector
Investment Program for 1981-85 is expected to be distributed to the Board
shortly. An economic mission on industr:ial incentives and export promotion
was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
*            addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
1/ Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-3413-MOR of November 22,
1982).



- 2 -
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Expansion in the Mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The Plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched a massive public
investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the rate of
growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate of 6.7% per year between
1973-1977. The expansion of the investment program also led to a considerable
increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled
from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6 ~    The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
starited falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Phosphate
pricess continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as
for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of prolonged
stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net importer of
foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growth of exports of goods
and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in
1968--72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970ss to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 15% of GDP in
1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to
10-12% in 1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose
to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance
the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7%
in 1977.



- 3 -
8.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. lWhile budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in Eollowing years (reaching 22% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Budgetary
outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a result, the
Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 18%
of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
9.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchmenit of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined
with tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
overall budget deficit declined to about 1O% of GDP and the external payments
situation improved in 1978. Later, however, the stabilization program
encountered a number of obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price
increases and the rise in interest on the commercial debt. In addition,
internal pressures led to some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal
policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were
still substantial: the resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 11%
of GDP, and the ratio of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the Level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
reached 27% in 1980 and their share of GDI' represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil i.mports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a rise in external
debt interest payments, the current account deficit before grants was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980.



-4-
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1978 have
had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only
partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was subjected to strong external shocks:  a
substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drought which reduced
agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large appreciation of
the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which further increased
the cost of debt service. As a result of these factors, economic and
financial performance worsened. Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real
terms, the Treasury deficit reached 14% of GDP in 1981, and the current
account deficit reached $1.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP). Economic
activity improved in 1982 as agricultural production recovered thanks to a
good lharvest, but phosphate prices weakened. adversely affecting export
earnings. GDP is estimated to have increased by 5 to 6% in real terms but the
external payments situation has not improved significantly. The budgetary
situation improved somewhat as a result of a combination of tax increases and
expenditure restraining the measures adopted in the framework of a stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in April 1982, but the Treasury deficit remains
high.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social and
regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious and
although the financial constraint lessened somewhat in 1982 as the economy
recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial situation will
remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8% in
real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be allowed to
rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for food imports is
expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil imports to slow
down, and payments for military equipment to be lower. Moreover, the growth
in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a. in real terms. Given
these assumptions, domestic savings could recover from the abnormally low 1981
level (7.8% of GDP) to-reach 12.5 % of GDP in 1985,-the resource gap would
gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to 7.5% in 1985, while GDP could
still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in phosphate and phosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in



manufactured products between 1981-85.  Such a performance would depend upon
identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high priority
is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and intermediate
products, the extent to which the projected increase in exports would
materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to exporters, the
diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional exports and new
markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to achieve
unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed.  This would
require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so that the level of
food imports would decline in real terms, but also an effective domestic
pricing policy so as to limit the growth of petroleum imports (assumed at 1.3%
p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a reduction of the capital
goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981--85 through cuts in Treasury civilian
investment with respect to the level planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a
revision of the various investment codes so as to reduce financial incentives
to imported capital goods.
18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household incomes,
any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come from
substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part of the
1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several measures and
reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in 1982. The
Bank's projections assume that progress will continue in this area.
19.      Given the strong constraints on [nvestment levels, the future rate of
growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. In conEormity with the Plan objectives, the
Government should start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.   Priority is to be
given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which
use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular
attention will have to be paid by the Gov,srnment to manpower planning and to
the employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from
rising.
Social Development
20.      Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays. However, social indicators
still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The limited
effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income groups,
especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major issue, and
the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural development in
rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live,
and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering services to meet basic needs
at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being
made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting basic



-6-
needs, particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
21e      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October 1980, the
IMF approved an extended arrangement for a three-year period in the amount of
SDR 810 million in support of a medium term program of financial adjustment.
This arrangement was interrupted in 1981 when it appeared that the assumptions
and targets of the EFF program were no longer possible. It was replaced in
1982 by a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase
of SDR 236 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility. The 1982
financial program, which was supported by the standby arrangement now drawing
to a close, sought to reduce the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments (excluding grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall
Treasury deficit by one-third-to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the
program included an upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint
in overall credit and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and
progress with respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
PreLiminary data indicates that the targets under the standby for end-1982
were met. The performance criteria of the program were observed and Morocco
was able to make the last drawing under the standby arrangement in February
1983. Discussions are underway of a possible further standby arrangement for
198-3/84.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.8 billion in 1981. Debt service amounted to $1.2
billion in 1980, $1.3 billion in 1981 and $1.5 billion in 1982 (27%, 31% and
35% respectively, of total exports of goods and services). As a result of
recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $1.8
billion annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to
continue this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to
expand exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1368 million in 1978. In 1979-80
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In 1981 they
are estimated at $1759 million. Major sources of aid were France, Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1981,
the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 21% in 1976
and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares
in debt outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 and 11%
respectively.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 58 projects, financing
a total of $l,988.5 million (net of cancellations), of which 1,164.5 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects and a Third Window
loan for $25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments
have amounted to $61.6 million ($42.7 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing IBRD/IDA projects as of September 30, 1982. Overall performance in
project execution is satisfactory, although in some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints.
25.      Past Bank Group lending has beer, concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 percent and 26 percent,
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16
percent), tourism (9 percent), education (8 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (4 percent) and urban development (3 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficits; t:o lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distributi.on among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and Livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers.  The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone.  The Loukkos, Middle Atlas,  Forestry and Oulmes-Rommani
projects extend support to less favorably endowed regions. Four lines of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have helped provide
credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   Increased
export earnings are expected to result from the Bank-supported project for
Vegetable Marketing and Production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry. The
scope of future lending is likely to be expanded to include projects aimed at
improving input supply and marketing nationwide.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le D4veloppement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Credit Immobilier
et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82.



-8-
28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project supports the
Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth project now being prepared
would continue this effort and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred small towns and
villages, and a third water supply project is providing access to safe water
in small towns and semi-rural areas. A project aimed at strengthening the
Communal Infrastructure Fund's (FEC) capacity to support local communities is
being prepared.
29.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at studying
the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. Additional
projects for further gas exploration, as well as coal and hydropower
development, are being studied.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY82.  Disbursement
shortfalls are, however, still being experienced, particularly for a few
projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project management
problems. These cases are being closely monitored and implementation
schedules have been established specifying critical actions, in agreement with
the Government. In some projects, implementing agencies have been slow in
submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to
the Bank, but the Government has recently taken effective measures to resolve
this problem. The rate of disbursement has also been affected by the
appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.
PART III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
32.      Morocco's urban population has increased rapidly over the past two
decades, expanding from 29% of the total population in 1960 to about 44% in
1981, or at an annual growth rate of more than 5%. Basic infrastructure and
services in the urban areas are seriously deficient. About half the urban
households are without water connections, 45% without sanitary installations
and nearly a third without electricity. This rapid urban expansion, coupled
with deficient infrastructure and services, has resulted in a widespread
formation of slum areas and illegal housing development and an acute housing



shortage. The Government has estimated that about 700,000 units are required
at present to meet the present backlog of demand, and another 90,000 each year
afterwards to respond to urban growth. However, due to the limited capacity
of both public and private sectors in the housing industry and the lack of
adequate housing finance, the current level of output is only about 45,000 to
50,000 units per year. As a result, housing conditions during the last decade
have progressively deteriorated with 40% of the housing stock either aged or
lacking basic sanitary facilities and 20% consisting of shacks. The housing
shortage has particularly affected low income groups. It is estimated that
about 30% of the urban population is living in squatter areas, and that 30 to
40% of the squatter population has income below the urban poverty threshold of
$170 per household per month.
33.      In spite of the Government's efforts to contain rural emigration, it
is projected that the urban centers will grow twice as rapidly as the rural
areas over the next twenty years, having an additional 600,000 urban dwellers
each year, and accounting for more than half of the country's inhabitants in
the year 2000. To cope with this growth, the Moroccan authorities will have
to direct their efforts to two main areas: (a) development of serviced land
for housing; and (b) mobilization of additional public and private resources
in the production of housing.
Sector Issues
34.      Land Development.  One of the major constraints to housing
construction by both public and private sectors has been the lack of serviced
lots. Yet, large tracts of urban land, most publicly owned, lie vacant,
although both the law and agencies needed to develop them exist. The
production of serviced lots, in particular for low-moderate cost housing, has
been primarily entrusted to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
(MHAT) which established a special fund in 1973 for this purpose. About
113,000 lots have been produced, which satisfied approximately 10% of the
total demand for serviced land. The shortfall is mainly due to financial
constraints, as MHAT relies heavily on beneficiaries' advances to start and
complete construction and on limited revolving funds of DH 6 million provided
by the Government. Furthermore, as a Government Ministry, MHAT cannot raise
funds independently, and it has been unable to pursue its goal effectively
with limited resources. The role of the private sector in this domain has
been insignificant partly due to the lack: of land subdivisions for plot
development and partly due to inadequate financing. The Government is aware
of these shortcomings, and plans to step up its own production of serviced
land and at the same time to encourage the participation of private developers.
35.      Housing and Construction Policies.  About-90% of housing units are
constructed by the private sector. A substantial part of these units (about
*            30% of the housing stock) are illegal set:tlements which consist of houses
built by individuals on undeveloped land,, without construction permits and in
the absence of a development plan agreed upon by the administration. They are
inefficiently spread out and therefore costly to service. Legal private
housing construction is mainly carried ouit by contractors who have, until
recently, mainly catered to high income clientele. With the erosion of the
housing market for high priced units due to the more difficult economic



- 10 -
situation, contractors are increasingly turning to the middle income
clientele, and a few are specializing in building low income housing units,
though on a small scale. The production of low income housing has been
constrained by inadequate financing for both construction of such units and
mortgage loans to the buyers. Legal private housing construction is now being
encouraged by the Government as a way to control the spread of illegal
settlements and to meet housing needs. To this end, the Government enacted
legislation (April 8, 1981) which provides for various tax exemptions such as
property tax, corporate profit tax and sales tax to individuals and companies
which build or acquire housing units for their own use, for sale and for
rent. The response to this legislation has been positive as demonstrated by
the substantial increase in construction loans for housing requested from
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a financial institution responsible for
housing finance, in 1981-82.
36.      Public housing production is mainly carried out by MHAT and by
semi-autonomous regional construction agencies referred to as "Etablissements
Regionaux d'Amenagement et de Construction" (ERACs). MHAT's activity in urban
areas focusses on the production of core housing units of about 30 m2
located on serviced plots not exceeding 100 m2. The beneficiaries are
expected to acquire the units on a lease-purchase basis and to complete the
construction according to their needs and affordability. Because of the
limited number of units actually produced (about 19,000 since the inception of
the program in early 1970s) and the fact that many were used to accommodate
families made homeless by emergencies, the program had little impact on
resolving the housing needs of the poor. Moreover, the program is not
financially sustainable since it relies exclusively on the Government budget
for its financing, and does not provide for clearly set cost recovery
procedures. The ERACs were established in 1974 with one agency in each of the
seven economic regions of the country. They are technically coordinated by a
central office of MHAT and their programs and budgets approved by the Ministry
of Finance. ERACs are charged with providing low income housing. Their scope
of operation, about 16,000 units since 1974, was limited due to managerial and
financial constraints which now have largely been overcome. The costs of
housing units produced by these agencies have escalated sharply, mainly as a
result of increasing construction standards. Typical ERAC units currently
cost more than $16,700 and are becoming less affordable to the target group.
At the same time, the market for housing units above that price is eroding.
The Government has recently instructed ERACs to lower the standards and to
focus on the delivery of low cost housing units to low income groups.
37.      Housing Finance.  The housing system in Morocco rests on the
mobilization of public, private and institutional savings. The Government
budget provides equity and loan funds to public agencies operating in the
housing sector as well as interest rate subsidies to the beneficiaries of
various housing programs.  The commercial banks mobilize private savings, a
small part of which is converted into housing finance. Since March 1982,
however, commercial banks have been required to earmark 1.5% of their deposits
for housing finance either directly or by buying medium and long term
securities issued by CIH. In 1973, a number of commercial banks started



- 11 -
contractual saving schemes under which savers had the right to borrow at
multiple of their deposits for financing housing. To date, these programs
have had limited impact because the low interest rate on deposits and the
short repayment period (5 to 6 years) were considered unattractive by the
potential clientele. They have now virtually ceased to operate.
Institutional savings are mobilized in the form of medium to long term
securities subscribed to mainly by the Caisse de Dep8t et de Gestion (CDG), a
public sector financial institution, and insurance companies. CIH, the onlv
institution specialized in long-term housing mortgages, is the major borrower
on this market. In 1981, CIH alone issued $54.8 million worth of long term
bonds, or 28.4% of all issues.  The volume of institutional savings available
for long-term finance is, however, limited since its principal sources such as
pension funds, insurance company reserves and social security funds have heavv
recurrent commitments and depend for their growth on the relatively small
number of salaried Moroccans. In recent years, mortgage financing in Morocco
accounted for only an average of 15% of the total vearlv capital investment in
the housing sector and benefited mostlv high income groups. In 1981, the
Government decided to redirect a large part of funds for housing finance to
low income groups. CIH has been designated by the Government to spearhead
this new policy.  This major shift in resource allocation is conducive to the
participation of the private sector in crnstructing low cost, low income
housing units (paragraph 35) and complements the Government instructions to
ERACs to focus on the production of such units (paragraph 36).
38.      Interest Rates for Housing Loans.  The Government determines interest
rate ceilings on deposits and loans and these apply to all institutional
credits in Morocco. Interest rates charged by lending institutions for
construction and mortgage loans are pegged at a nominal level of 14%, well
above the projected inflation rate for Morocco (9% in 1983 and 1984 and 7.5%
thereafter). The effective rates for mortgage loans, however, depend on the
real estate value and the level of incomes, and range between 6% and 14%. The
lowest rates, referred to as r6gime sp6c:Lal apply to housing units valuing
below $21,700 and to beneficiaries with incomes below $420.  The other rates
are referred to as regime g6neral. The Government subsidizes the difference
between the nominal and effective rates and the amount is paid directly to the
lending institutions. Although the cost of such subsidy has been relatively
small in the past (less than $1.0 million in 1982), the expansion of lending
for low income housing units may increase the amount of subsidy
significantly. The Government is aware of the problem, and has decided to
change interest rates for housing loans before end February 1983 as follows:
Real Estate Value ($)
in 1982 prices                     Old Level (x)                 New Level (%)
Regime special
Less than 16,700                     6-7                            6-7
16,700 - 21,700                    6-7                            7-8
Regime general
Less than 33,330                      8                              10
33,330 - 50,000                    10                              12
Above 50,000                         14                               14



- 12 -
39.      Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, the new structure of interest rates
would be maintained throughout the commitment period of the project (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.04). On the assumption that the long-term market rate of
interest in Morocco would be 12%, the change in interest rates would result
in: (i) a greater degree of cross subsidization between the highest and
lowest: income categories; and (ii) a reduction of the amount of subsidies by
35% over the period 1983-86. In addition, the weighted average effective
intertest rate for all CIH's housing activities would amount to about 13%,
substantially higher than the long-term rate of inflation in Morocco. By
March 31, 1985, CIH would evaluate the impact of interest rate subsidy as well
as the tax relief package (paragraph 35) in the housing sector, and the
resullts will be discussed between CIH, the Government and the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.12). The Government has informed the Bank that it would
be prepared to envisage further modification of both CIH's nominal and
effective interest rates for new mortgage loans in light of the cost of
subsidies and of its financial situation.
The Bank's Experience in the Sector
40.      In support of the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low income urban families, the Bank financed two
urban development projects (FY78 and FY81) in the cities of Rabat, Kenitra and
Meknes. These two projects provide infrastructure and shelters in slum
quartiers, along with commercial and community facilities in selected areas.
About 60,000 and 100,000 low income people are expected to benefit from the
first and second projects, respectively.
41.      The first project was instrumental in redirecting the Government
policy from systematic demolition of slum areas to upgrading settlements when
appropriate. Equally important, the project introduced low cost upgrading and
shelter components which ensured affordability to the lowest income groups and
incorporated cost recovery. Initial project performance was unsatisfactory
but substantial improvement has recently occurred. The major problems lie
with the complexity of the institutional arrangements, the lack of
coordination between various executing agencies as well as their limited
implementation capacities, and slow payments to contractors which have led to
substantial delays in project execution. Also, lengthy land acquisition
procedures delayed cost recovery, although where land title has been
established, performance has been satisfactory. The second project has built
on the experience of the first one. It provides for a simpler institutional
arrangement for project execution and the implementation capacity of project
authorities is reinforced when warranted. Its exectution is proceeding
satisfactorily, but disbursements are slow due to lengthy administrative
procedures.
42.      In an effort to diversify Bank lending in the urban sector, the Bank
carried out a sector survey in June 1981 to review the overall strategy as
well as to identify new areas for lending. The report called for the



- 13 -
continuation of Bank support for slum upgrading operations as they are cost
effective in serving housing needs of the lowest income groups at limited
costs to the Government. At the same time, the Bank could also achieve far
reaching results in promoting the construction of low-cost housing for low
income groups by channelling its funds, subject to rigorous eligibility
criteria, to a well established and effective financial institution such as
CIH. This approach is the cornerstone of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
43.      The project would continue the Bank's support for the provision of
housing to low income groups in Morocco. To this end, the project would make
financing available to both public and private developers engaged in the
construction of such units. Repayments of these loans after three years would
then be used by CIH to finance mortgage loans of selected target households.
They are dispersed throughout Morocco, and their monthly incomes are in the
lower half of the urban income distribution curve. By addressing the housing
needs of this group, the project would help to alleviate the pressure on the
development of illegal settlements, thus reducing the needs for future costly
servicing of such areas (paragraph 35).
44.      In the present Moroccan economic setting, the timing for such a
project is particularly appropriate. The market for highly priced housing
units is eroding and private developers are willing to move into the low cost
housing market which has hardly been tapped (paragraph 35). By promoting
homeownership, the project also contributes to private savings in the
country. Furthermore, through an increase in interest rates for housing
(paragraph 38), the project would have a favorable budgetary impact as it
seeks to reduce subsidy in the housing sector. Lastly, the reallocation of
funds available for housing finance by CIH from high income to low income
groups (paragraph 37) would not only result in a net addition of housing
stock, but would also be conducive to the replicability of the proposed
project in the future.
45.      The project was identified in September 1981 and prepared by the CIH
staff. It was appraised in June 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
in January 1983; the leader of the Moroccan negotiating team was Mr. Othmane
Slimani, President Director General of CIH. The main features of this project
are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report;
a Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex III) is also attached. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No.-4151-MOR) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Description
46.      The project would consist of (a) a line of credit (LOC) to CIH of
about $59.0 million for financing low income housing schemes meeting technical
and economic criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (b) technical assistance to
CIH to help develop its capability in appraising low-cost housing schemes and
in advising private and public developers on all aspects of low cost housing
design.



- 14 -
47.      About $56.0 million of the LOC would finance construction loans to
private and public developers to build a mix of housing unit types, ranging
from core units (unfinished, including one to two rooms, whose completion is
left to the initiative of the owners) to walk up apartment buildings; of this
amount at least 25% would be earmarked for financing core units (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02 (a) (i)). The remainder of the LOC (33.0 million)
would be used to finance individual housing construction and plot development
loans. To be eligible for Bank financing, these schemes would have to meet
the following criteria (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A): (a) price
criteria: the maximum selling price of these units should not exceed $5,300
for the least expensive type (core units) and $13,300 for the most expensive
(walk up apartment), anid the maximum selling price of developed plots should
not exceed $30 per square meter. These prices would be adjusted on January 31
of each year to account for inflation; (b) technical criteria: in addition to
CIH's technical requirements which are satisfactory, these schemes would have
to meet criteria regarding land use efficiency, maximum size of the units and
building structure and design; (c) economic criteria: all schemes whose costs
exceed $500,000 should have an economic rate of return at least equal to 12%,
which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital; and (d) financial
criteria: all schemes whose costs exceed $500,000 should have a financial
rate of return at least equal to 14%, which is the statutory on-lending rate
of CIH. Upon completion of the construction schemes (usually 3 years), except
for the individual housing construction loans, the loans would be converted to
mortgage loans to potential buyers of the newly constructed housing units.
This use of funds is a key incentive to developers to produce low income
housing units. Therefore, CIH would include a clause in contracts with the
eligible developers that their potential clientele will benefit from CIH
financing, provided such clientele meets the eligibility criteria (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B 3(a)). The beneficiaries would be selected on
the basis of monthly income of not more than $330 which would be reviewed
annually and adjusted, if necessary, upon mutual agreements between the Bank
and CIH (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part C). Other selection criteria
related to ownership are already enforced and are satisfactory to the Bank.
The income ceiling and ownership criteria would minimize the risk of
speculation.
48.      The technical assistance program would focus on: (i) the development
of a land use model; (ii) the establishment of a computerized data information
system, including the provision of computer equipment, which would allow CIH's
staff to store and retrieve information on previous and proposed schemes; and
(iii) a study to be completed by July 1985 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2) on the
residential building construction sector. CIH would utilize consulting
services to help develop the computer system (20 man/months) at a cost of
$9,250 per man-month and to execute the study (12 man/months) at a cost of
$12,500 per man-month, including fees, subsistence and travel. These experts
would be selected according to the Bank guidelines; they would be hired not
later than October 31, 1983; and their qualifications and experience would be
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).



- 15 -
Project Financial Features
49.      Financing Plan.  The proposed $63 million loan would be made directly
to CIH at standard Bank terms and conditions for Morocco (17 years maturity,
including four years of grace and variable interest rate). About $54.8
million would cover the foreign exchange component and about $4.2 million
would cover local cost of the construction costs of housing schemes and land
development. The remainder $1.0 million would cover the foreign cost of
technical assistance component ($0.6 million) and the front-end fee
($0.4 million).  As the development of core units (below $5,300) is a
relatively new experience to private developers, they might be reluctant to
participate actively in the production of such units. The financing of local
costs would allow the disbursements of Bank funds up to 50% of CIH's loans for
housing developments by private developers with at least 50% of housing units
are core unit types (paragraph 52). This, together with CIH's customary
contribution from its own resources, would help finance nearly the entire
construction cost (exclusive of land) of such developments. Since it is
expensive for developers to obtain bridge financing (usually at 17% from
commercial banks), this measure would provide an appropriate incentive.
Annual reviews would be carried out by the Bank and CIH to assess the
achievement of project objectives (including this incentive) and to determine
corrective measures, if warranted (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b)). As the
loan would represent only 10% of CIH's total borrowing over the 1983-86
period, CIH would absorb fluctuations of the Bank variable interest rate. The
Government, however, would bear the foreign exchange risk (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.02). CIH would repay the Bank loan on the basis of a
fixed amortization schedule. However, to avoid rollover of Bank funds for
activities outside the objectives of the project, CIH would be required to
repay the Bank the repayments by the developers which are not used for
mortgage loans to eligible beneficiaries to purchase the constructed units by
the same developers within five years of the date of the contract providing
for construction loans (Loan Agreement, Section 2.10).
50.      On-Lending Arrangements.  Out of the proceeds of the proposed loan,
$59 million would be on-lent at 14% with maturity periods of 3 years for
construction and land development loans and 25 years for individual
construction loans. Mortgage loans would have maturity periods of up to 25
years at an interest rate of 6% for unit3 in a housing complex and 7% for
individually constructed units (paragraph 38).
51.      Procurement and Disbursement.  The proposed loan would finance civil
works and it is unlikely that any individual contract would exceed $1.5
million. As contracts would be small and scattered in space and time, they
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. Public
developers would be subjected to Government procurement practices which allow
for local competitive bidding and are satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore,
CIH requires that these contracts be reviewed by independent architectural and
engineering consultants. Private developers tend to execute the construction
either themselves or througb a variety of small contractors. They are



- 16 -
required to go through a licensed architectural firm to oversee proper
execution of construction and CIH scrutinizes their procurement practices
closely. CIH's staff has acquired considerable experience in local
construction and cost estimates and procurement practices and are able to
effectively scrutinize cost estimates, invoices and other supporting documents
provided by the developers and their contractors. CIH's procurement practices
are satisfactory and therefore would be applied under the project. Computer
equipment included in the technical assistance component (paragraph 48) would
be procured under a contract with the supplier of existing computing equipment
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03 (b)).
52.      Loan proceeds would be disbursed as following: (i) 35% of CIH's loans
for low-cost housing construction and land development, or 50% of such
financing if the schemes are sponsored by private developers and include at
least 50% of core units (paragraph 49), and (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 75% of local expenditures for technical assistance component.
Disbursements on construction loans to developers would be fully documented.
Disbursements on all other loans will be made on the basis of statement of
expenditures. Documentation for expenditures under statement of expenditures
will be retained by CIH for auditing by CIH's auditors and for reviewing by
Bank representatives. All schemes would be committed by June 30, 1986 and
disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1989 (Loan
Agreement, Sections 2.03 (c) and 2.04). CIH's accounting and internal control
procedures are adequate. CIH's financial accounts have been regularly audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The quality of CIH's audit
is satisfactory.
The Institution:  Credit Immobilier and Hotelier (CIH)
53.      Organization.  The Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH) was founded in
1920 as a mortgage bank specializing in housing finance. Since 1960 it has
also been practically the sole institutional source of long-term financing for
tourism projects in Morocco. CIH operates out of headquarters in Casablanca
and has 18 regional branches. Though it is subject to corporate law, public
institutions own a controlling majority of its capital and account for 11 of
CIH's 15 board members. The ownership structure is as follows: Caisse de
D4pot et de Gestion owns 30 percent of CIH's capital and holds bearer shares
as proxy for another 25 percent; 12 insurance companies own 20 percent;
commerc:ial banks, 15 percent; and Banque du Maroc (the central bank), 10
percent.
54.      The full Board only meets two or three times a year on major policy
issues and has delegated many of its powers to an Executive Committee
consisting of 6 board members which meets monthly. The Committee examines and
approves all tourism loan proposals and all housing loans of more than DH
150,000; a Management Committee and branch offices approve smaller housing
loans. CIH's President Director General chairs the Board and the Executive
and Management Committees. He is assisted by a Deputy Director General, a
General Secretary and three Department Directors, for Credit, Finance and



- 17 -
Commercialization. There are five main divisions under these departments:
Studies, Project Evaluation, Identification, Loan Management and Finance.
CIH's professional staff numbered 340 in 1982 and is of generally good
quality. The Bank has extended four lines of credit to CIH in the past for a
total of $148.7 million for hotel construction. CIH has generally exceeded
expectations regarding institutional and operational performance.
55.      CIH follows sound and conservative financial policies:  its Statement
of Policies provides notably that projects financed by CIH must be
financially, technically and economically viable; that loans must be secured
by adequate guarantees; and that CIH will provide its clients with technical
assistance over the whole project cycle. The Statement also restricts CIH's
equity investments. CIH has agreed not to modify its Statement of Policies
without prior consultation with the Bank under the Fourth Loan to the Credit
Immobilier et H8telier (No. 1943-MOR). In addition, CIH would limit its
financial exposure in any single housing project to 20% of its equity and
reserves, except if a full guarantee from the Government or any institution
acceptable to the Bank covers CIH's credit risk (Loan Agreement, Section 4.10).
56.      Procedures.  CIH has developed over its 50 years of experience in
housing projects a sophisticated set of information on building construction
costs and standards and a good knowledge on the housing markets throughout the
country. It is against this background that housing projects are evaluated.
Developers or individuals requesting CIH financial assistance submit a report
covering the technical, legal, financial and commercial aspects of the
proposed scheme. CIH's staff first evaluate the credentials of the
developers, mainly their financial status, experience in similar schemes, and
the various guarantees and collaterals they are offering to back up the
requested loan. The scheme would be appraised by CIH staff who would make
recommendations on the amount, maturity, and special conditions to be met
before the loan can be approved. The appraisal report would be reviewed by a
Technical Committee made up of heads of the principal departments (Finance,
Credit, Marketing and Legal), who would then make recommendations for approval
or rejection of the loan to the Executive! or Management Committee. CIH can
finance up to 80% of the total (including land) estimated cost of projects by
developers for a period of three years. Financing for mortgage loans can be
up to 90% of the total costs with a grace period of three to six months.
CIH's appraisals of housing schemes are of high quality but somewhat weak on
economic aspects. Recently, however, as a result of discussions with Bank
missions, CIH appraisers have paid more attention to the economic analysis of
schemes and devoted more time to discuss with and advise developers and
individuals on scheme concept and design. As this would be the first sectoral
loan to CIH in housing, all housing schemes benefiting from construction loans
provided under the project would be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Schemes benefiting from either individuaL construction loans or land
development loans would be small, and they would be reviewed a posteriori
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (a) and (b)).
57.      After scheme approval, the proceeds of loans are made available in
three tranches to individuals, and in four tranches to developers. Funds are
disbursed only following a first field inspection by CIH's technical division



- 18 -
which ensures that the portion of the investment to be financed with the
borrowers' equity has been completed. Suhsequent inspections ensure that each
CIH loan tranche has been utilized in accordance with the loan contract and
the appraisal report. In case of non compliance by the borrowers (developers
or individual households) with the agreed project design, disbursements can be
suspended until the issue is resolved to the satisfaction of CIH. After
completion of the construction phase and the sale of units, the Credit
Department makes random checks to ensure that they are being used for
residential purpose only and they are totally occupied by the individual
borrowers. In case of a breach of the above rules, CIH requests the borrower
to (i) reimburse CIH for all interest subsidies received which will be
returned to the Government and (ii) pay CIH the statutory on-lending rate on
the principal of the loan still outstanding.  Since CIH's housing portfolio
includes about 40,000 housing loans, there is no assurance that each loan
beneficiary will be audited, but CIH's follow-up procedures serve as a
deterrent and few violations have been so far reported.
58.      Operations: Past and Projected.  During the period 1979-81, CIH
approved housing loans totalling $207.2 million which financed about 13,728
units, most of them in medium and high price ranges. The number of housing
units financed by CIH peaked in 1979, but decreased sharply in 1980. The
market was reactivated in 1981 due to the publication of the housing
investment code which includes a tax relief package (paragraph 35) and the
attention to the financing of low cost housing. Preliminary data from 1982
indicates that the upturn is of durable nature. During the same period, CIH
approved hotel and other loans totalling $93.2 million. Since 1979, CIH
stopped new equity investments and has initiated a systematic disinvestment
effort by either selling or provisioning them, particularly in companies
experiencing technical difficulties or financial losses.
59.      CIH's total annual lending operations are projected to increase from
$125 million (on an approval basis) in 1981 to about $263 million in 1986.
Disbursements are expected to increase from abouit $97 million in 1981 to $249
in 1986. During the commitment period of the proposed project (mid-1983 -
mid-1986), total approvals would increase by 22% per year and total
disbursements by 26% per year. Most of this increase in activity, which CIH's
current institutional set-up can manage, would entail a significant shift away
from hotel lending towards housing lending, especially low-cost housing where
lending would jump from virtually nothing to $40-50 million annually.
60.      To match the expansion in activities, CIH would have to considerably
intensify its efforts to mobilize resources, both domestic and external. It
is projected that a resource gap (on approval basis) of about $529 million
would have to be filled over 1982-86. Although the yearly amounts to be
borrowed from local institutions have not been finalized, Caisse de Depot et
de Gestion, Banque du Maroc and Banque Centrale Populaire have been
traditional lenders to CIH, and thus, CIH should not have difficulties in
meeting its resource needs. Given however, the limited absorptive capacity of
the domestic financial market, CIH may have to borrow on international markets



- 19 -
(generally at variable interest rates anc up to 7 years maturity) for an
estimated amount of $13.5 million, in addition to the Bank loan. It is
projected that CIH's borrowings at variable rates on the international markets
would amount to less than 12% of total medium and long-term debts until 1986.
CIH would take all appropriate actions satisfactory to the Bank to protect
itself from the risk of loss resulting from variations in interest rate (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.08). CIH's financirng plan for the period 1983-86 has
been agreed upon during negotiations. At: the end of 1981, the average
maturity of resources was 7.9 years compared to 5.6 years for loans. Because
of CIH's new focus on low cost housing lending which has a maturity up to 25
years, this margin will likely narrow. CIH is required to ensure adequate
matching of borrowing and lending funds (Loan Agreement, Section 4.09).
Furthermore, as CIH is required to meet the minimum debt-service coverage
ratio and a maximum debt-equity ratio (paragraph 62), the matching of funds
will be closely monitored and corrective measures will be taken expeditiously.
61.       Since CIH is the only institution permitted to finance long-term
mortgage loans, it also finances mortgages in resettlement schemes. The
nature of this type of operation may involve a greater than usual risk of
non-repayment of mortgage loans. To protect CIH's creditworthiness, an
assurance has been obtained that CIH will not provide loans for resettlement
schemes unless such loans are guaranteed by the Government (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.07 (a)). However, in practice, actual recovery of outstanding loans
under such guarantee could take time and meanwhile CIH's liquidity position
could be affected. For this reason, in addition to the above assurance, CIH
will take all necessary steps to avoid arrears on resettlement loans, and if
for reasons beyond its control, such arrears exceed 8%, the Government will
promptly pay CIH at its requests any amount necessary to keep arrears on
resettlement loans below 8% (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07 (b), Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.05).
62.      Financial Performance.  CIH's f:Lnancial performance has been good
between 1977-1981, especially in the prof-itability area. The return on equity
has reached 10.5% in 1981 compared to 6.7% in 1977, and CIH enjoyed a spread
of 4.3 points in 1981, an increase of 80% over 1977. At the end of 1981 CIH's
liquidity position was sound, with a current ratio of 1.5. Also CIH's
debt-equity ratio of 10.8:1, and debt-service ratio of 1.2 at the end of 1981
met the limit of 13.8:1 and 1.0 respectively agreed upon under the Fourth CIH
loan. These limits would also apply under the project (Loan Agreement,
Sections 4.04, 4.05). As of December 31, 1981, arrears on housing loans
amounted to about 6% of housing loans oul:standing; generally less than a year
old. These arrears present no special r:isk as they are adequately covered by
CIH's mortgage securities. Arrears on hotel loans amounted to 19.5% in
December 1982. Agreements on an action plan have been reached with the
Government and CIH to reduce arrears to 10.5% by December 31, 1983. Through
the supervision of the ongoing Fourth Loan to CIH (paragraph 55), the
execution of such plan will be monitored and appropriate measures will be
undertaken to further reduce the level o:t arrears. CIH is expected to
maintain the bealthy profitability it has shown since 1980. In 1984, the
return on equity is projected to reach 30.7%.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
63.      The direct benefit of this project would be an increase of hoUsing
stock in Morocco by 13,000 new units targeted at urban population whose income
is at the lower half of the urban income distribution curve. About 37% of
these units are expected to benefit households below the urban poverty
threshlold of $170 per month. Furthermore, by linking the provisioo of
construction loans to the provision of mortgage loans, and by increasing CII's
participation in the financing of low cost schemes sponsored by private
develcpers, the project would encourage the private sector to move into the
construction of low income housing, which has until now been monopolized by
public agencies with resource, management and manpower constraints. Finally,
technical assistance to CIH would further reinforce its project appraisal
capacity and the responsibility of providing advice to developers on all
aspects of low cost construction design.
64.      The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for four schemes whose
costs are known with some accuracy vary between 18% and 20%. Although the
minimum requirement for the economic viability of these schemes is fixed at
12%, it is expected that ERRs of most schemes would be well above this cutoff
rate as indicated by housing units with similar standards produced under the
two Bank financed urban projects (paragraph 40).
65.      There are three main risks associated with the project.  The first
risk is related to the possibility that CIH would finance mostly the schemes
in the high price range allowed by the eligibility criteria. This risk would
be reduced by (i) the requirement of 25% of the construction loans to
developers to be earmarked for core units (paragraph 47); (ii) the incentives
to private developers to construct these units (paragraph 49); and (iii) the
monitoring procedure on the objectives of the project (paragraph 49).
Secondly, there is some risk related to reaching the target population. This
risk would be reduced by the provision of the beneficiaries eligibility
criteria (paragraph 47) and CIH's other practices to minimize speculation
(paragraphs 47 and 57). Lastly, there is a financial risk for CIH in
financing the resettlement schemes, where it is more probable that the
beneficiaries would be reluctant to repay the mortgage loans (paragraph 61).
This risk would be reduced by the Government's guarantee to the financing of
such schemes and the limit of arrears on outstanding resettlement loans. It
is further reduced by the existing legislation and practices which allow CIH
to foretclose on delinquent mortgages.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Credit Immobilier
et Hbtelier, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The special features of the project which are
referred to in this text are listed in Section III of Annex III of this
report.



- 21 -
67.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
AREA (THOCSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-A
TOTAL             446.6/c                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
ACrROICLTURRl.    202.2 /c                               MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    L970 lb ESTIMATE lb          MEnDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
CNR  PER CAPITA (US$)                  220.0        340.0     900.0                 1253.6                   1902.0
FFERCEY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KELLOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      163.2       214.0      302.3                 713.5                    1259.9
p;p(HATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPFUIATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0      14993.0   20182.0
lR6AN POPUILATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3          34.6      40.6                  47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
FOPILATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2090
POP"LATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1KM.                        26.0        33.6       43.8                  35.8                      35.2
PER SR. YH. AGRICULTURAL LAND       61.1         75.0      96.6                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0l-14 YER.                          44.8        47.6       46.1                  44.3                      39.7
LS-64 YRS.                           52.6        48.3       50.7                  52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOEE                     2.6         4.2        3.2                   3.3                       4.2
POPULATION CROATH RATE (PERCENT)
TO-TAl                               2.6         2.5        3.0                   2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                3.7         4.2        4.6                   4.6                       3.8
CROUE BSRTS RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.8        47.3       44.9                  41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DrATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.4         17.2      12.7                  12.2                       8.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          3.5       3.2                   2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
A CUEPTORS, ANNEIAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1       78.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0        5.4/d
FOOD ARND NUTRITION
INDUr OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            99.0        98.0       88.0                 100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                    100.8       103.0      106.5/e               108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMIS PER DAY)           64.6        66.5       68.3/e                71.9                      66.0
(PF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.8        12.6       13.5/e                18.0                      34.0
CHILE (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       36.8         26.6      15.5                   15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7           51.7      56.5                  56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                160.5        136.3     107.2                 104.3                      64.2
ACCESR  TO SAFP lATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)I
TOTAL                               30.6        51.0       55.0/d                59.1                      65.6
URBAN                               58.7         92.0     100.0/d                83.1                      78.9
RURAL                               19.0        28.0       25.0/d                39.8                      43.9
ACCES' U)) FXCRURTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        29.0         ..                    ,,                      59.3
rRBAN                                 ..        75.0         ..                    ..                      75.3
R('RAL                                ..         4.0         ..                    ..                      30.0
POPUlATION PER PHYSICIAN            9406.1     12814.5   11037.4/d               4015.5                    1617.3
ROPUI.ATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2742.2    1R26.3/e               1802.2                    1063.5
POTULATION PER HOSPITAL. SEE
TOTAL                              625.6       664.3      773.6/e               641.7                     477.4
URBA1                                 ..       454.7      623.4/e               538.3                     679.8
RURAL                                 ..      5B21.4    3089.6/e               2403.3                    1903.4
ADOIISYEONS PFR HOSPITAL SEE            ..         15.5      17.9/e                 25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AvFRArF SIZE OF ROITSEHOLE
TOTAL.                               4,8          5.5        ..                     .                        .
"RRAlN                               4.3          4.9
RURAL                                5.1         5.8
AVERACF N(rNBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM1
TOTAL                                2.2          2.4
URBAN                                2.1          2.1
RURAL                                2.3          2.6
ACcESS 'TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DPIELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
IRBAN                                 ..        68.4       65.0.
RURAl.                                ..           ..        .



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                         RFFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVECAES
- MOST RECENT ESTINATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE ,'b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         52.0      75.0                  88.7                   104.3
MALE                 67.0         67.0      93.0                104.5                    106.4
FEMALE               27.0        36.0       56.0                 72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 5.0         13.0      22.0                 39.7                     41.3
MALE                  7.0         18.0      21.0                 49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                2.0         7.0       17.0                 29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 30.2           2.3       2.8                  10.1                    33.7
PUPIL-TFACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.4         34.3      40.3                 34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                          6.3         20.4      21.D/f                23.7                    16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.8        21.4      28.0                  43.3                    79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        10.7         14.8      19.6/d                17.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        45.8         62.4     107.5                 131.3                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUISAND
POPULATION                         0.4         11.6      38.4                  44.1                   107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 22.1         16.2      11.8                  31.5                    63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  Z.0           ..       2.0/e                 1.7                     2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3388.7      3945.2    5294.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.0        14.2      15.8                  10.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.0         57.0      52.0                  42.4                    31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.0         17.0      21.0                 27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.1        26.3      26.2                  26.0                    33.6
KALE                                 52.1        45.2      44.2                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                5.9         7.5       8.3                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0       1.9                   1.9                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                               ..           ..     219.0/1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.-0&       20.0        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3/g       49.0/1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0_/        4.0/
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOVSEHOLDS   18.0/R       12.0_/g
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0     389.0                 279.2
RURAL                              66.0       101.0     238.0                 178.6                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     242.0                 403.6                   518.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     257.0                 285.6                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELO1W ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              51.0        38.0      28.0                   22.1
RURAL                              49.0        45.0      45.0                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithietic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betn.een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; If 1975; ,S Consunption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



-24-                                                    ~~~~~ANNEX I
OEFPlttTlO5iS 1OF SOCIAL IMOICArORSPR e                                                       3    0C      .
tne.'-   A4t both Cho oats at, dra-   Er-IPote eerlyjudg.d Cht. cc    cio Ieln    n  reiale  ii shol  ale4   usC noted  that t-                                 Y  -y   tottrcts-:
nationally bcon barsile .    I th.    ako   tzdnrdLed   efIi- tion. arid connepte u.ad iy difr.n.  contIe  incolctn Itedar.     Th JOr  arC noe
tbelne.. .c.ft  toL d..cr Lb. order  ofeaiug . idicate tren d., andchr4                t        -ecrtai  sejor ditff .        .
thenfrnn rop  ar            .1 tees  coun.trygopoChe ejCh  `-ty 00 1d (   co.ntr  .too  etc  soe-h.  high.r average  L..ne  thee the  cutr  -ro
oftouio   conty(eteefa                     'ih IncoMa   Ol itooreo              gru  eher  M'iddle [non   North Africa an  Middle  ee E. I`s:, chof.n..hagt
intocutoalotihtes.   n  tt            vu   roy   at  ts  veseor  ppoeto   neihtad ant hmeIc cans for each  Indic tored ettoen  ny attn
najr ty o  th  cootteeL.najrop See data for that CIndicator.  Since the covrg  of..     Coutre   a-n  ihe tiuin  tare depede on teoei                           yi  Ja-
one In..canor  etete engt, he. country end reference  gr- Pe.
SREA (,ho..ee.d aq.ket.                                                                                nultIoeroeitled - tote    Sianb,, anI                  oa       oua  c     .t0
T-tl- Total -croace are  cogJriect  is-d area and inland ntr    1919 date.                                    IIIen   ndrteI  dinded b   hei   epcieOse   , optlco
Oar tcoItore I- Let lts  of ar icoltral oreosd  teporariy or .permanenty              a-ilabLe  In.           . ed prtoete  geerl        :p eO  tall ese hoepitat  -tOye
forcrpe  pate.  ektad kitchen  .aret  or t  Its  alIce; 1919 4ena.                                 htbiLteion1 Centers I.  Moeptisfa ar  neotIret     -teIeil,  - ttild
to  a -Is.etn. phyexiua.  itbleeoerrnd                   _np int ca fy oceit
IS  pi  APTPER      ff- SPpe  cpie  ctimte  d  crroseetet  r ce,'afOlf  ar  ae  otto lde.    nrl  oeitle  boesrIC.lOehelt
-uae1     yie-     oneso    ahdaedrdMn   ts                         do184   -asisl   1960.            an  edis  cetr         Ia pasnnl   tfe    y      hsttobtn
1910. -4d 1980 daa..d,.icl eeitn.vts  e.d.ifey e.tc.) ebyc  fe   npaIn    rv
ENERGI   111. TION  M  ~~~~~~~~:APITA                                         4.1~daion  sod provide a IL:isid rage of esdic   foi Ile    For _otat-
intL    gaet  o,sur  en   s   aia P                S,  91,O  and 1919                       ener. opeiLt.f bhp.a:,              esL Icond crIb   vder tote.
fros hoepitele dittOd. byCh tie.'usro beAn.
?cOPtLA'Ildb ADD ltrAL STATISTlCS
Total Poralsetc..  tud-f.ar (thcue....      )-ie.  ijoly 1; 1960, 1410. and                      HOUSING19
Urban- rua inoevrof toso) 1    RotL 10  f  -r..otoa   oucto                                           i bouseheii,i-;d cnit   fagopo   nfiut                      hr Ici   quaters
dIfferen   datit: .one.of -r boo  res   ay affent    eaaiii f date                                  and their, eato eeLs.  A hoarder orldger say or -y nott                 Inclded Iv
amavg ctttniee   1960.1910,..nd 1980 date.                                                   the ho..senhld fereairte    upee
Lnaoto    ivo-s 2000 - Cort.. populotian proetonbr asdo  18                                   e  of prosprre   neioin  aertrni" Fcaildcol                           es n
total population by ege and se- aethi  enelty an. etilit    ae.dnloa   epoiey                                                   telneacasvoesen    tatre
Prodeceon pareetorsfor maety roe    ners  o   be   Ini  555    -                           ooopied  pats.
Ing lIfe  soetnya  birth   voresing  Ithcoara per cepit   nom                                   cee  ofetr1 t Lpercent.of..nonEl).-.total  urban. a-d rurl-
level  and feelf   epec ...c  erabililatgatI15   er . hePar-                                     Con-nional daIine   it  eecriit...Ii.vstrtrSa
etere  forleni  trt  also "   1  havsihre  levels ass_Ig Aeloslf tci.I , uben. and rurl   seligs-eP.. sinely.
edfrItyLI   rende for proleoros purpoa..e.                                              EDCAi.utoNfrlntRto
Snocionoryviulan ion-Ina stationar   popu.ies io   Aeeisv  9vnciceP                             dmr  E.Chci -  toa,mlC      odfrae-Icecta1   eI  adyol
th  Ilrvfee  s  qaltoth   eah  et.an  os  thCaehnutun   e-                                    ifolso   o LI  gsa  tePiar   ee  as rerIc ntgef.-reyIo
naveoetn.    hn  sacioo   nl   Ste(tttinneeoe  In   e                                  nsayotel-g   ppl,tr_.vr.lylclje.hlde...                                 11
ty   oieen   lvlo  ui   etfyouc  o  rt,aetec.gnrtonyee-a   d(ee   ordfern-egtso ;h,r  roa in   o
..t  0evtepace   lbelf  tai ly-  Th  ettioaryporuat oo  lceeas                    ounrie  eb   cnierel  evoa ionenrl lnt  ay ecen   10  ret-n
ea iee.   n  ieysi   f  bspo ete   ceeneieic    f  h  pyuaco               Iv-,osy      oti   r  belts-&   itanet-etft                   dB tolae
Peovon -Mdya  pouain"e'             qaeY.ee            0   vcantc                            Y--ca .iua I  j ..o.en dpercentff ..e..noaroh  i -  Iocaicv P  irnnln
only  196. 170 ed 119 det.Ch   -PTorY-i -teacher ra p.jI                                                  ti.   in. ..      od. net crdat        .. Tne  ePt,_"t errlle   i
fretpopuatio  far1950--Ad,..(Ib...-I d,                                                                                            ...od-y191V...Mb-
P.riaioncott  ae   foerveo I     ne       ave   rairis  fubnpp-_dt2lT
latunafor195-90  160-0.  vd   810do.Poesner  ore(ne  thnend  oruatinl    Pesegercar  coerce Cto
-,rLat.o;190 1960. 290,ed 1980   daa.b....                                                                    eneerlpulcpe   hceP"f""'ato;re  uesat
IresRerouta  gaei.        rgstte f(ogPee   easesM-L9I-           Ill beeJinI inete r-                        eer  i  vetLIe end. Idv years              1 ofte  reitrta   ofd rodeo
fa    oelrrtacle   eidi-eeeprsns    rsnta-ee  ui   a-noensrcafc;Oeefrrcntyasmynececeproeli
nI Irn rete; osnolip line-yer average  evdio8  I  Ibid. 190. and 150.            east cuntries aolished  IicenednCt
leeiv Pfvvie  - Soertre.Caro   tasndT                 anlvarfcaotsT  onnr  (tar thoeav  ror-4Ilaiv   -                                             dIV  rs .e..r fo.b.Acd tt
of  i_ih-nvncfv   device.      , une    vrnsoIndnlfebypann   program.                         C NS     efeiOpoi   e   huadpaoaii;enbs   n  cne    teecr
PeoRvPooiP-.er..ece.o.mr.ldsen      Preteef   aredi   vunCtead-                                                         vyer (ePeg.,etIn  fT  etnC                       nefet
seen  yf chil-nearing  ag  AI .. I nests  abeose Pberth-.....dnl  devices to                     '       eereCh-rculotio    (ear ....ee  .  .o....t.v . - Shn  th  oettci
j      1e fFodPonto  pr6r0    (99leOb               oe   f  e   aiI  arsooadCl               dj C Re  canne  ut     'hnn  e..r CarPnePertLn eArI - ,. tes  on  . ieaierot
eaer   hihat  eileadyoneovtLat   I. .cofe.n
te PI  e  add.Agese   rdcieo  eeoh coiner  is  Cae   nCO                                            0C
Par cpitaearpi  of  elonie  aeceni  f rh. t.. monef-  lio ptdifry                          area -fa.ce  en   oslpd   a   nldnthaeis,atdoa    t.
qcnils.   edi  od  rcsig Idea--.         dbe.)                                                                              Eddsrbtn.    eor-Aniotr   nrai  -  atr  are n   frig   oety    ueo   n
coneh note   . esidtd- pPD.     aedoC     pyioalilnegPfrnac  at-                                     lice -       ereeseoltta-abrfoc;h90.110.d..0  oe
FoLtY e    hs       ..t .  Cesdalgnntnmee   hsent              , body enigma      I.. aeIdsr   rren    Ieda  fero   be si Ins   oercia.enas
an Cet hinlion-ine  fpplta.adalntgt                       re   o   ae  at.                           "I. .en   deri iny  Y-asr- ndge  ee p-erte.inoeg  ofttl  en  frs
Iosnl   ei    915 910neb91   en,I.-O  97   o  1880 dens.                                                                                                               T
Pe cnt  tepe  f rten  etesre  dy  -Prnsn  oeee  o   ervein        Prnoleln  RtsIptnne  -tne.  si,  ndfeeeIdPrtcierteo
ards.- or.ne.hn.h..f. ga    ftnlpeni   n   l  rs   fin  siae   r  fees. national-eaortae.
F.ldPvd h,orn,   96--          11    e11  gn.h  the tota  Lab,,,forte
ricdreeniendrie IsroeprdyIbi-S19Sod11dos                                                       ICOM  otnt-g      AtutoP6oPi.P.  Y.
hId  ae   -i  eusn  (pr hnend  deea  dah.pe   hasodinPrcntg.o.rloi eLe.bthI  cash and had) -Il                                                                  tehene   ivn-    h
teie   at    Id.ir .. Errs . i _fe   abe ;190 186106S and0   .1980 0 dieee.BO  FofRhveehl
..fRaL;. ...t IfTtY1  ,&  TA -If i                                                                                   h...SOOPSn.I.lyc,,
or, birth  2v9l00. 1915      . and 1990 Sate.                                                       o         ..r.d ebndi  irnepreteg  nib  cans~Idlth.. caution
of age pe  thausan  live biths; 296,P197,se  19C00 det.. bsols                                     .pvet 19rce197 ledrn9i datrt.mv.           en   e c   hcadn
ost ofpeople(natal  orbae  an  r   hraL 10- ei       d.res fCb . acces  to oafs             aLsforoabfle.Il
rarr eppl  (Irioes  Ree     foic    gsao   nrae    u   natsntd                            OtmedtlniePvryIaeLvl(t   e   altionnoArr   
eae"     cbasta   rtepIetd   aeas.  ptg.adAeuoyenOlo                                                urieitvepvryIna    ee   s   n-brfo   n  ae  e   apt
pscnep  Lfthi   eascn    paoaina               enrierd             pulcoten    v                                of the- counry. . Chelvl)  derived  from1:   the0rore-
Evoaainretsodoenloctednonmaretha   20  sesesfro   a  ave  mapbe      oya  cih  ajoeeneforbiggr cat  f lvtl  inbrbn Edee
h-oenit e                                                                                                            t
t;nd55 to  ort  OlnolLeonofcrM                    lle-oa.  rm,a    oa 
husecet of peopl  (total  u    4n sad , total) egneb   ocre'PCepsed
- Popottteti  ivided  y viskn of pectinlo   phyci                                                  fiovoel     d and  I Soia  DaIta  cia too
ciane.tt.itfie   fre  aeiCel  nhl .. an L  P.ie, it  lanai.                                    iOre,   Aaalysi  and                                            .  friricin   Deatn
P"-Porelanto  re  Resa  Per 0Son-Poe     Yno  diid d by0v.ee  ofpP Iiio                                                                                  ayII
mae  ndfeai14aeasores   aeeinee   veres  pre'tnoe  torsos ari
nursing eaail iatiee.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



25 -
Population         20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                            ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                                      f/
(million US$ at                                        Annual Growth Rates ()-
current prices)                           Actu,al                                        Projected
Indicator                        1980                   1977   1978   197!t  1980   1981e/                 1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                      6.0    2.2    4.3    3.6   -1.3                    4.0      5.1      4.5      4.3
Agriculture                  3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.1    6.2  -23.0                     7.0      9.6      3.1      2.5
Industry                     5752                  8.0   -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                     3.7      4.6      5.4      5.1
Services                     7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                     3.7      4.3      4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                   5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                    1.3      4.2      3.5      3.6
Gross investment                4025                  15.6  -25.9      1.3   -7.3   -3.6                  6.5    -1.1       3.7      3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                  10.3    3.3    0.9    3.7    3.5                    4.5      7.0      6.3      5.3
Imports of GNFS                 5247                  14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                   -1.9    -0.6       2.2      2.3
Gross national savings          2606                   1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                    9.5    15.6    13.2        1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)           .                172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)          .                 .222   .240   .256   .254   .193
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)                              Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)d/                         (at constant 1969 prices)    (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                  1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                                4.0        4.6         5.1        3.7        5.1
Agriculture _/          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                     3.5       -2.1        3.8         2.5        2.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                     4.7        7.1        4.2        3.9         5.5
Services b'             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                     4.1        5.5        5.9        4.0         5.5
Consumption                 89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                    4.1        4.8         5.8        3.0        4.2
Gross investment            10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                    8.0        9.3        -2.8        2.0        5.1
Exports GNFS                27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                    1.3        2.1         4.9        5.5        7.1
Imports GNFS                26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                    3.5        8.1        0.5         1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                       3.5       15.3        -4.4        3.0       10.0
As Z of GD?
1960       1970       L975       1980       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                   16.5        16.1       73.3       21.6       23.3
Current expenditures                               15.6        14.5       20.2       21.8       24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                          0.9         1.6        3.1       -0.2       -1.4
Capital expenditure                                 3.8         5.7       12.2       12.4       12.6
Foreign financing                                     ..        1.3        3.7        5.6        9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (x)                       4.0         6.0        5.2        3.4        5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (x)            1.6         3.1        1.8       -0.1        2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (X)    3.8             6.7        5.6        4.3        5.0
ICOR                                      3.09       3.0         4.1        6.2        3.9
Marginal savings rate                     0.10        0.38      -0.15       0.27       0.28
*                Import elasticityS/                        0.95       1.84       0.13        0.95       0.78
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor coat beginning in 1985 and sectoral growttl rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
d/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/  Estimates.
f/  1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B P.1



-26 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                  ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                            Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator            (million US  at                              Annual Growth Rates (%)1/
current prices)                  Actual                                    Projected
1980         1975   1977   1978   1979   1980         1981      1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414       -21.9   10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1          1.0       4.0    7.8    6.7    5.1
Primary products             1823       -25.2    7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8         -8.1        1.2    3.4    3.8    3.5
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9    9.6    9.6    3.2    7.4         -5.4       0.0    3.0    5.0    4.0
Others                     939       -22.3    6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7    -10.0           2.1    3.7    2.9    3.1
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -1.4   23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8         27.4       9.8   16.3   11.8    7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)        4283        21.2   14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1          9.3      -1.9    0.5    3.9    4.0
Food                           720        37.8    0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4        32.5    -16.8   -0.9    2.1    4.5
Petroleum                    1006         12.8    8.7   11.0   12.1  -11,9         10.8      0.0   -1.1    3.3    3.2
Machinery and equipment       805         51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8          7.5       3.0   -2.5    4.0    2.9
Others                        1752         4.0   13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2        -0.3        2.6    3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                 .         89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0    123.3    125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
Import price index                 .         64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0    122.3    130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
Terms of trade index               .        140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0    100.8          95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                       (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                           2.0      -1.2        6.6        5.2         7.6
Primary products          89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   60.5   49.1             ..      -2.7        5.3        1.3        3.3
Interm,ediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9              ..       8.1       12.1       14.0       13.0
factures
tmports                                                                           4.0       9.1        0.7        2.4        4.0
Food                      27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   16.9   15.5             ..      14.0        3.0        0.7        2.4
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4            ..       9.6        5.3        2.4        2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   18.7   19.2               ..      12.8       -7.0        2.4        4.5
Others                    58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9             ..       5.5        2.9        3.3        5.1
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)          Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960       1970       1980        1960       1970       1980      1960           1970             1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3       73.7       76.5        27.7       25.4       21.6        ..             0.9             1.9
Imports                         76.7       74.9       72.9        23.3       25.1        8.3        ..              ..            18.8
1/ 1975-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                  September 22, 1982
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 27 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                          ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USt 870 (1981)                                                                                                    Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYKENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                   Actual                                                Projected
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981         1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services              2288      2486      2955      3694      4364     4132          4087    4669    5401    6193   11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           1245      1283      1488      1938     2414      2283         2180    2575    3077    3618    7163
Imports of goods and services              3691      4364      4353      5268      5912     6095          5780    6276    6930    7734   12812
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.ai         2305      2820      2628      3245     3770      3840         4054    4365    4994    5714    9856
Net current tranfers                         47        52        50        44       128       102            -        -       -        -        -
Current account balance                   -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861             -1692   -1607   -1529   -1541   -1515
Special grants                              435       360       260       420       314       313           84      197     320      150      232
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548               -1609   -1410   -1209   -1391   -1283
Private capital                              38        53        45        37        88        68           76      85       96      106      171
MLT loans (net)                             838      1338      1109       946       971      1205         1071    1425    1371    1666    1359
Official                                  ..        ..        ..        ..        ..     1315          994      736      878      982    1092
Private                                   ..        ..        ..        ..       ..      -110            77     689      493      684     267
Other capital                                 28       68       -13        73      -200        17           ..       ..
Monetary movements_/                          16        6         8        53       247       258          462    -100    -258    -381    -263
International reserves                      548       609       772       917       814      508           470     543      653      787    1635
Of which:  Gold                           82       104       154       360      415       278          278      278      278      278     278
Reserves as months imports                  1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1       1.7       1.0          1.0      1.0     1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
Gross disbursements                         725      1787      1182      1405      1567      1807
Concessional loans                       111       636       325       293       750     1089
DAC                                    63       109        91       76        96       138
OPEC                                   41       507       189       168      584       837
1DA                                     4         3         -        -         1         2
Other                                   3        16        45       49        69       112
Non-concessional loans                   614      1151       859      1113      818       718
Official export credits                22        27         2         2       12       128
IBRD                                   59       68         72      137        64       129
Other multilateral                      2         6        53         7       13        86
Private                               531      1050       732      967       729       375
Suppliers credits                   10      171        10         B        16         6
Financial credits and bonds        521      879       722       957       713       368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          2330      4069      5123     6182      7097      8381
Official                             1250      1975     2456      2833      3482      4865
Private                              1080      2094     2667      3349      3615      3515
Undisbursed debt                         801      1024      2280     2337      2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                   162       264       547       798      1191     1340
Interest                               66       148      252       410       618       738
Payments as % exports of G+S             7.2      10.7      18.7      21.8     27.0      31.3
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)          7.7      6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1       8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)          11.7      13.1     13.2      15.9      13.7       8.0
As Z of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                            47.9
haturitLes due within 10 years                                           88.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            7.3
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Projected values include 1MF credits.
cl Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the BOP statistics.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between the external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBR; Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
d/ Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982) al
Loan or                                                                             US0  Million
Credit                                                                   Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                 Purpose               Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Twenty-four   Loans       Fully disbursed                                617.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                             36.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               32.0                    8.4
555            1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                          14.0        11.1
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                   21.0                   11.6
i220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education                 25.0                   14.6
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               41.0                   30.5
1428           i977       BNDE                     DFC                    35.6                    2.5
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering                1.5                    0.5
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development    18.0                        15.2
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               65.0                   59.1
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry               50.0                    5.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education                113.0                  108.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                 25.0                   12.8
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    42.0                    41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                     Agriculture            70.0                   30.8
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply              49.0                   30.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               58.0                   49.6
S-18           1980       BRPM                     Oil Exploration        50.0                   20.7
lboJU          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                  62.0                    53.8
io48           1980       Kingdom ot Morocco    Agriculture               34.0                   32.2
1943           1981       CIH                      Tourism               100.0                   7C.9
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                         36.0
006           1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply              87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982        BNDE                    DFC                    70.0                   70.0
20381!         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                 70.0                   70.0
20821/          1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture               29.0                   29.0
21091/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                     9.5                    9.5
21101/         1982        Kingdom of Morcco       Forestry               27.5                   27.5
21141/         1982       ONAREP                   Oil Shale              20.0                   20.0
21491/          1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V              50.0                   50.0
Total                                                             1908.5       50.0       1010.4
of which has been repaid                                         239.4        1.2
Total now outstanding                                             1669.1       48.8
Amount Sold                                   20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                    2.4
T'otal now held by Bank and IDA                                   1666.7       48.8
Total undisbursed                                                  999.3        11.1      1010.4
NOli
a/ Does not include the Oulmes Rommani Agriculture Development Project, loan of 330 million,
approveu December 14, 1982.
1/ Not etfective as of 9/30/82. However, since then the following loans have been declared
effective; BNDE IX, Forestry, Small-Scale Mining, Middle Atlas Agricultural Development.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US3 Million
Loan      Equity   Total
1962/1978            BNDE                          Development Bank            -        2.7       2.7
1966t                CIL                           Canning Factory            0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement               Cement Factory              -        1.3       1.3
1977/1980            Temara Cement                 Cement Factory             4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                 Agadir Cement *               Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                 SOMIFER                       Copper Mining             13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983            Casablanca Cement             Cement Factory            15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Gross Comrmitments                                                 46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales             15.4       3.5      18.9
Total commitments now held by IFL                                        31.5      11.2      42.7
Total Undisbursed                                                        15.8       2.4      18.2
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980.
Funds have been fully committed for the additional infrastructure works and
equipment provided for under an amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in
July 1980. Final disbursements are expected by end-March, 1983 and unused
funds will be cancelled.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, which has
been aggravated by project management prcblems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the origin.-l closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Dal:e of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of infrastructure works and common facilities
for a hotel/residential tourism development complex. Most infrastructure
works were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of common
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to institutional and project management problems. Project
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being ercountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be: read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
completion is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months, and an extension
of the closing date has been under consideration for a long time since it has
been made contingent on the Government's agreement to an action program. The
Government has now been advised that the Bank will cancel the balance of the
loan on December 31, 1982 unless an action program has been agreed upon by
that date.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: September 1, 1982.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components. Further extension of the
closing date is being considered and will depend on improvements in
disbursement performance, which has lagged due to administrative delays both
in the Project Unit and the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of industrial sub-projects, and of a small-scale industry pilot
credit program ($5 million). The loan is fully committed, and the loan is
expected to fully be disbursed before end 1982. BNDE's financial performance
deteriorated sharply in 1981, but the trend should be reversed since a package
of measures to rehabilitate BNDE financially and to strengthen the institution
has recently been agreed upon.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date cf Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design ar,d planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutiona;l and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project imple!mentation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily and an extension
of the closing date is under consideration.  The technical components of a
possible project have been identified, but: institutional problems have not yet
been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Developmen: Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date o- Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in tbree squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and housing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, due to
excellent project management and good interagency coordination. However,
disbursements have lagged due to delays by the implementing agencies in
submitting reimbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of pbosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storing facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule.  Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory. The project account is being closed and an amount of
about $5 million is expected to be cancelled.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high scbools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
instituites of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, all major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is virtually fully committed, and earlier
disbursement delays should be remedied subsequent to the recent introduction
of simplified administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electriiication program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under waly and the project is expected to be completed according to schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
J
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families.  The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
KfW. CNCA's on-lending as well as repayments were severely affected by the
1980-1981 drought, slowing disbursement of the Bank loan. To alleviate CNCA's
sbort-term liquidity problems (due mainly to the drought), its lenders,
including the Bank, have increased their disbursement percentages under their
respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects. Procurement problems have hampered project implementation and
recruitment of consultants has proceeded very slowly. Administrative problems
have also delayed disbursements.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 19-84.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference. Disbursements have lagged due to
delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of reimbursement
requests to the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It also
includes studies for developing policies irn the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; JS$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented indust:rial sub-projects. The project also
focusses on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II Project; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project:  US$29.0 million of March 5, 1982.  Not yet
effective. Closing Date; June 30, 1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.
Loan No. 2109       Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengtben the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110       Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting witb eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvement over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114       Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil sbale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No. 2149       Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, through construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project identification:                             September 1981
(b)   Time taken by borrower to prepare project:          8 months
(c)   Agencies responsible for project preparation:  Credit Immobilier et
H8telier (CIH)
(d)   First Bank mission to review project:               September 1981
(e)   Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;             June 1982
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations:                 January 13, 1983
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:                      July 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.    New interest rate structure would be maintained throughout the
commitment period of the project, and by March 31, 1985, CIH would
evaluate and discuss with the Government and the Bank the impact of
interest rate subsidy and the tax relief package in the housing
sector (para. 39).
2.    Construction, land development, and mortgage loans would be subject
to agreed eligibility criteria; the loan contracts between CIH and
developers would include a covenant ensuring CIH refinancing of
developers' newly built housing units (para. 47).



- 39
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.    Annual reviews would be carried out between the Bank and CIH to
assess the acbievement of project objectives; CIH would be required
to repay the Bank the repayments by developers which are not used
for mortgage loans within five years of the date of contract
(para. 49).
4.    CIH's financial exposure in any single housing project would be
limited to 20% of its equity and reserves (para. 55).
5.    CIH would take appropriate actions satisfactory to the Bank to
protect itself against the risk of loss resulting from interest
rate fluctuations (para. 60).
6.    CIH's loans to resettlement schernes would be guaranteed; and the
Government would pay CIH at its request to keep arrears on
resettlement schemes below 8% (para. 61).
7.    CIH'S debt-equity ratio and debt service ratio would remain witbin
the limits of 13.8:1 and 1.0, res;pectively (para. 62).



I



,_______________________________________ _         _IBRD     15252
PORTUGA!I SPAIN              ITALY   GREECE TURKEY    1    KI NGDOM    OF   MOROCCO                             :                                                                                      A  ;                  AUUSTNI
R.0             TUISIA___   Main roads                                                                                                                 -                                                   Seq .      R
RoP2tboTArht  '~  G                                                                                                                                                                                          oo    .R I,
MOROCC2_>'Scndr  od
A GERIA                         AR- Saolor  odsTsl                                                                                                           Rba1
_7R         REP OF             - - - - --- Tracks                                                                     L       A4 -                                     -TOr  OA                      2
F                 EGrYPT                        Railway sG                                                                                                     A                                     \
A~~~                                                         ~~                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mo24  /                                                                                              .1 -o~    Noo\                                                    2
ORIRIR    fOORYG.SI  NIGER A                                               Salt lokCs                                                       RA            Me  e              S                 \o
J~1* ri~                          ,   '. .1,  M a io r  irrig at io n   p e rim e te rsY
MADEIRA ports                   ~~~~~~~400 mOnlimeter rainfall line              A          -           Or             It~a     tO 
Elevations above                                                                            K    E000 meta  El               2          3s,
MOdPrpO                                      Interonaional boundaries                OOKOI,06iCoh1-01
l  Idicate$ the territory of the former
/2'                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spor.5h Sahar iWao nSoo)  -s,t,
CANARY I A                                                   U A N D S
Paere    Youn/cr
Bi, M. h- ~     ~              ~             ~AL                      ER AI,                                            ,51/1
-24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24'
Ad-D.I,hIX                                                                                                                j                     .    bullfidArses s6SEn w  w w uS sor wsht u me E af s *ZXhonk N
Mo AuN L I
LOe,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                        KLMTRSII                          00        30          4
U   R   I T   A    N    I   A~~~~~~~~~ILMTES0                                  00         20          0         4.
..dih,16- V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/



