OFFFF1ICIAL
LD)CIjjENTS   LOAN NUMBER 2245 MOR
Guarantee Agreement
(Housing Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     /9                     ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2245 NOR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     1                        , 1983, between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Credit Immobilier et H8telier (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars
($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 4 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banklng transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.


﻿-3-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by Banque du Maroc or any institution performing the functions of
a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall make arrangements to pro-
tect the Borrower against any loss in connection with the payment
of interest and other charges on, and the repayment of principal
of, the Loan as a result of a change in the rate of exchange
between Dirhams and the currency or currencies in which such pay-
ments are made.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions or
the Banque du Maroc to take, any action -.hich would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be
taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable
the Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, until June 30, 1986 or
such other date as may be agreed between the Guarantor and the
Bank, maintain or cause to maintain the interest rate structure
(excluding subsidies) for low-cost housing construction or
acquisition in effect as of the date of this Agreement, that is,
annual interest rates of not less than:
(a) under the Regime special (referred to in Title 6 of the
Guarantor's Decree No. 552-67 dated December 17, 1968), for
individual beneficiaries excluding cooperatives for low-cost
housing construction and acquisition:
(i) six per cent (6%) for complex housing units whose
total real estate value does not exceed DH
100,000;
(ii) seven per cent (7%) for individual housing units
whose total real estate value does not exceed DH
100,000;


﻿-4-
(iii) seven per cent (7%) for complex housing units
whose total real estate value exceeds DH 100,000
but does not exceed DH 130,000; and
(iv) eight per cent (8%) for individual housing units
whose total real estate value exceeds DH 100,000
but does not exceed DH 130,000;
(b) under the Regime general (referred to in Title 4 of the
Guarantor's Decree No. 552-67 dated December 17, 1968), for
individual beneficiaries excluding cooperatives for low-cost
housing construction and acquisition:
(i) ten per cent (10%) for housing units whose total
real estate value does not exceed DH 200,000;
(ii) twelve per cent (12%) for housing units whose
total real estate value exceeds DH 200,000 but
does not exceed DH 300,000; and
(iii) fourteen per cent (14%) for housing units whose
total real estate value exceeds DH 300,000.
Section 3.05. Whenever the Borrower shall request the Gua-
rantor to make a payment for it pursuant to Section 4.07 (b) of
the Loan Agreement, the Guarantor shall promptly make such pay-
ment, provided that the Borrower shall have exercised remedies to
collect arrears on its outstanding loans for financing resettle-
ment schemes and shall have, inter alia, initiated the legal pro-
cess.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco


﻿-5-
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                31936 M
Rabat, Morocco
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this JLday of, 4        , 198 0
FOR SECRETARY


