Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18648-DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$111.11 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FORA
HURRICANE GEORGES EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
December 3, 1998
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure SMU
Caribbean CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
I Peso = US$0.06
US$1.00 = 15.7 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC                   Project Coordination Unit (Comisi6n Coordinadora)
CEPAL                 Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
Dominican Electricity Corporation
DC                    Civil Defense
EIB                   European Investment Bank
FEMA                  Federal Emergency Management Agency
GODR                  Government of the Dominican Republic
1DB                   Interamerican Development Bank
INAPA                 National Institute of Water and Drainage
TNDRHI                National Institute of Water Resources
INVI                 National Housing Institute
NWS                   National Weather Service
ONM                   National Meteorological Office
PROCOMUNIDAD    Fund for Promotion of Community Initiatives
SEOPC                 Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
STP                   Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director: Dany M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy



Page I
Dominican Republic
Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1. Project development objectives .........................................................4
2. Key Performance Indicators .........................................................4
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project .........................................................4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .........................................................5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................................7
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components .........................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........................................................8
3. Benefits .nd targe            t p opulation ........................................................                                                   9
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................................                                   10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...................................................  10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ........................................................I 1I
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................................11
S. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................................11
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
I. Economic ................................                                                                                                            12
3. Technical ................................                                                                                                            12
4. Institutional ................................                                                                                                        12
5. Social ................................                                                                                                               13
7. Participatory approach ................ 13
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .................                                                         ....... 13
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ................................                                                                                                        14
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ................................                                                                                                15
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................                                                                                               15



Page 2
Annexes
Annex I   Project Design Summay ..............................................................                                                                               16
Annex 2    Project Description .............................................................                                                                                 18
Annex 3    Estimated Project Costs .............................................................                                                                            26
Annex 4           Economic Analysis of Roads and Bridges Component .............................................................  27
Annex 5    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................................. 28
Annex 6    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................................................                                                             33
Annex 7    Monitoring Indicators .............................................................                                                                               34
Annex 8    Statement of Loans and Credit .............................................................                                                                      37
Annex 9    Country at a Glance .............................................................                                                                                38
Annex 10   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies ................................. 40
Annex 11   Letter to Presidents of IBRD and IDB .............................................................                                                               41
Annex 12   GODR Action Plan for Program in Insititutional Strengthening of Disaster Management ....................... 43
Map



Page 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America & the Caribbean
LCC3C
Date: December 3, 1998                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Sector Manager/Director: Daniel M. Leipziger
Project ID: 63201      Sector: Multi-sectoral       Program Objective Category: Emergency Assistance
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit      l ] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$): 11 1.11 million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [X] Single currency - US$
Grace period (years): 3           []   Standard Variable  [XI Fixed          [I    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 12
Commitment fee: .75%
Front-End Fee:  1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                  15.2                                 15.2
IBRD                                                         7.1               104.0            111.1
Total          22.3              104.0            126.3
Borrower: The Government of the Dominican Republic (GODR)
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, The Central Bank of the Dominican Republic
Estimated disbursements (Bank              1999       2000       2001      2002
FY/US$M):
Annual     60         20          20         10
Cumulative     60         80         100        110
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 1/31/99
Expected closing date: 1/31/02



Page 4
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1):
*  To help restore, or maintain, growth in key sectors of the economy.
*  To support the reconstruction and rehabilitation of key social and economic infrastructure damaged or
destroyed by Hurricane Georges in September 1998.
* To reinforce vulnerable infrastructure facilities in order to reduce losses and interruption of critical
public services from future natural disasters.
*  To strengthen the country's institutional capacity to prepare for and respond to future natural disaster
emergencies.
2. Key Performance Indicators
Outcome Indicators
*  Stabilization of economic activity for the current (1999) and following year (2000).
*  Effective country-wide communication and disaster preparedness prior to future emergencies.
* Appreciable reduction in time for restoration of key public services following a disaster.
*  Reduction in damage to the country's critical infrastructure following comparable natural disasters in
the future.
*  Minimal loss of human lives.
Output Indicators
*  Economic activity indicators in tourism and agriculture.
*  Completion of physical works in each subcomponent in accordance with design standards and within
implementation schedule.
*  Completion of operations & maintenance plans for physical works, including annual allocation of
funding in national budget, within implementation schedule.
* Emergency management agencies (Civil Defense, National Meteorology Office(ONM)) staffed with
technically qualified people, with clear roles and responsibilities, and adequately equipped with
instruments and facilities by the end of 2002.
*  Enactment of building codes and construction standards for public buildings and private residences.
*  Completion of hazard analysis vulnerability mapping study and integration of findings in
development planning.
Input Indicators
*  Specific monitorable indicators to measure the implementation progress of each project
subcomponent are summarized in Annex 7
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1):
Latest CAS document number: 14260-DO        Date of latest CAS discussion: May 2, 1995
Expected date for next CAS discussion:      Spring 1999
The emergency operation directly supports three key goals of the Bank's assistance strategy for the
Dominican Republic: alleviating poverty, enabling private sector development by easing critical
infrastructure constraints, and improving environmental management.



Page 5
Through the support to emergency imports by the private sector and the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of key economic infrastructure, the emergency operation will help to restore productive
capacity affected by the hurricane and thereby mitigate the hurricane's negative impact on economic
growth and employment in general. The operation is also designed to address directly the impact of this
natural disaster on the poor, as hardest hit marginal areas, typically populated by low income
communities, will be specifically targeted for infrastructure rehabilitation efforts.
Environmental damage prevention and mitigation measures of the irrigation subcomponent will
lessen the future probability of losses of income, assets and lives resulting from recurrent flooding in
specific areas, particularly rural. More broadly, the Emergency Management Institutional Strengthening
subcomponent will improve the country's capacity to identify vulnerable areas, prepare disaster plans at
the national and community levels, receive and disseminate early warnings, and adopt and enforce risk-
mitigating standards and codes.
Since the discussion of the 1995 CAS, the Dominican Republic has experienced significant
economic growth, in the context of a transition toward a political environment which is more open to
policy reform. This is leading to expectations of a strengthened Bank Group country program in the
medium term. Although the parameters for this country program will be clarified in the context of the
upcoming CAS, the strengthening of national capacity to prevent and mitigate the impact of natural
disasters is already emerging as a key program priority for the medium term. This emergency operation
provides a bridge between the latest CAS and the upcoming 1999 CAS, by helping to strengthen the
growing consensus on the need for a systematic program of disaster prevention and mitigation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Hurricane Georges
Hurricane Georges passed over the Dominican Republic on September 22, 1998, as a category III
hurricane with winds reaching 130 miles per hour (map). The eye of the hurricane entered the southeast
portion of the country in the morning, traversed the country at approximately 6 mph on a northwest path
and arrived at the border with Haiti in the evening, downgraded to category I. The destructive winds
destroyed housing, agricultural and industrial infrastructure, uprooted trees and destroyed crops, mainly in
the eastern part of the country. The heavy rain was centered in the south/southwest areas of the country
and led to floods and rivers overflowing with water and mud, which destroyed bridges, homes, and
household and farming equipment; damaged roads, schools, health clinics and water supply systems; and
washed away crops, including sugar, bananas, yucca, coffee and vegetables. Because of its diameter, the
hurricane affected at least 70% of the country, equivalent to 34,000 square kilometers. The areas most
affected are the eastern and southern portions of the country, including some important urban areas such
as La Romana, San Pedro de Macoris, Santo Domingo, and San Juan de la Maguana. Some of the
principal tourist enclaves in the southeast were badly damaged, as well as critical agricultural zones, such
as the fertile San Juan valley and Cibao valley. The death toll now stands at 235.
Economic and Social Impact
A team from the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (CEPAL) visited the
Dominican Republic in the second half of October and estimated the total cost of direct damages at
US$1.3 billion (8 percent of GDP). While the adverse impact of the hurricane on GDP growth and
inflation is expected to be short-lived and limited, the economic recovery is likely to lead to a temporary
widening of the fiscal and external current account deficits, largely reflecting increased spending on
(mostly imported) basic needs and reconstruction materials.
* Agriculture: The most important sector of the economy, agriculture accounts for 16 % of GDP.
It sustained the greatest damage, from the winds that uprooted trees and plants and destroyed
infrastructure, and the rains that caused the rivers, particularly in the south/southwest regions, to
overflow, flood fields and destroy cultivated land. One third of all cultivated land was affected.



Page 6
The crops grown for internal consumption were the most affected, particularly bananas and corn.
Total damages in the sector, including livestock and fisheries, are estimated at US$527 million.
*  Transport: The heavy rains caused serious damage to highways, roads and bridges. 20% of
highways were affected, and 40% of local roads. 112 bridges were damaged, 55 of them
destroyed. Total damages in the sector, including ports and airports, are estimated at US$292
million.
* Housing: The wind destroyed roofs, windows and external installations, and the rains flooded
many homes. The most affected provinces have some of the highest concentrations of poor in the
country: Santo Domingo, Monsefior Nouel, San Juan de la Maguana and San Pedro de Macoris.
A total of 171,000 of houses, or 10% of the total, were affected, while 49,000 houses, or 3% of
the total, were completely destroyed. Total damages are estimated at US$232 million.
*  Tourism: The greatest damages were sustained in La Romana, La Altagracia and Juan Dolio. A
total of 6,000 rooms were affected, at a estimated cost of US$149 million.
*  Electricity: Transmission and distribution networks sustained the greatest damages, primarily in
the eastern part of the country. Total damages are estimated at US$46 million.
*  Education: 1,334 schools (28% of the total) were affected by the hurricane, of which 203 (4% of
the total) were completely destroyed. As 443 of the largest schools were used as refuges for the
homeless, the school year started several weeks late for close to 100,000 students. Total damages
in the sector, which includes sports and recreation facilities, are estimated at US$69 million.
*  Health: Damages in physical infrastructure were moderate - US$2 million in buildings and
US$4 million in furniture and equipment; the regions most affected are Santo Domingo, La
Altagracia, San Pedro de Macoris and La Romana. The indirect cost of attending to emergency
needs, estimated at US$17 million, has made the greatest impact on the sector, as the lack of
running water, food and medicine and accumulation of solid wastes resulting in water pollution,
have increased the incidence of infectious diseases.
*  Water & Sanitation: As a consequence of flooding, the sector was adversely affected by
damaged electricity lines, water mains and treatment plants, wells, access roads, distribution
networks, windmills and emergency motors. Total damages are estimated at US$16.4 million.
*  Irrigation: The torrential rains damaged canals and electrical infrastructure. Damages cannot be
fully quantified yet because some areas are still inaccessible, but the estimated total so far is
US$8.8 million.
Institutional Preparedness
The lack of national emergency management capability was clearly manifested by the passage of the
hurricane. The population was not forewarned appropriately about the impending danger of the
hurricane, and the preparation measures taken were vastly insufficient. GODR relies primarily on three
agencies to respond to natural disasters: The Red Cross, Civil Defense, and the National Meteorology
Office. The Red Cross tried to warn the population about the hurricane in the days before its arrival, but
had limited resources and support to do so. It has been quite effective in coordinating the emergency
relief effort since the hurricane though, marshalling support from NGOs and international branches of the
Red Cross. Civil Defense, an agency of GODR, is poorly staffed and equipped with very weak
institutional capacity. It did not forewarn the population about the hurricane, and in the aftermath, has
been unable to play a significant role in the relief effort. The National Meteorology Office (ONM), a
government entity that depends on the Agricultural Secretariat, is also poorly equipped and staffed.
While it supplied accurate information in the days preceding the hurricane, it was hampered by deficient
communications technology. The impact of the hurricane was greatly exacerbated by the lack of
prevention capabilities of GODR, as evidenced by the fact that the hurricane hit other countries equally
hard, but caused minimal or no fatalities (Puerto Rico).



Page 7
Government Strategy
GODR declared a state of emergency the day after the hurricane, and immediately requested assistance
for reconstruction from the international community. Soon after GODR created the Solidarity Fund for
Reconstruction, to pool the emergency resources from the state, public and private donations, as well as
loans from bilateral and multilateral organizations. GODR has been working very closely with the Bank
and other donors, to identify damages and needs and to accelerate loan processing.
GODR has acknowledged the serious shortcomings in its emergency management capability, and has sent
a letter to the presidents of both the Bank and the IDB (Annex I 1) within the context of the emergency
operation, describing its commitment to a program for restructuring and modemizing the institutions
responsible for disaster management. The program is described in detail in the accompanying Action
Plan and Chronogram (Annex 12). The Puerto Rico offices of the U.S. National Weather Service (NWS)
and U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been providing technical assistance to
GODR since the emergency to help elaborate such a program. The program, which could be funded by
several donors, would be executed in parallel with the reconstruction effort. The Bank would finance
US$7.1 million, specifically to provide: (i) specialized early warning equipment for the ONM; (ii)
technical consultants and logistical support for disaster preparedness and response; and (iii) training for
national-level ONM staff in disaster preparedness, and for local staff in helping local governments and
rural communities to prepare for and respond to emergencies arising from recurring natural disasters.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
IBRD's three-part strategy to address the emergency situation: The three-part strategy comprises (i)
reprogramming of existing projects; (ii) a quick-disbursing component to finance critical imports needed
to help stabilize economic activity; and (iii) an emergency investment component. The total amount of
Bank financing is US$134 million.
* Reprogramming of investment funds from existing portfolio: Approximately 14% of the
existing portfolio, or $24.2 million, has been reprogrammed to provide immediate financing for
emergency reconstruction and equipment needs. These funds come from the Basic Education,
Provincial Health Services, National Highways and Irrigated Land and Watershed Management
Projects, and have been reallocated to address specific needs identified in these four sectors.
Disbursements have already begun in all four of the sectors.
*  Emergency Loan - Quick-disbursingfunds: GODR has requested emergency assistance to
finance urgently-needed imports. This component would provide $60 million in quick-disbursing
funds, which will be used to finance imports from a positive list of items needed to help restore
economic activity. Imports would include food, medicines, construction materials, certain
chemical products, and primary materials for industry. Approximately 20% of these imports have
been procured retroactively. The contents of the positive list have been finalized and are included
in Annex 2.
* Emergency Loan - Investment funds: GODR has also requested emergency investment funds to
help finance the multisectoral reconstruction effort. The Bank and GODR have agreed to an
investment component of US$50 million for the following sectors: transport infrastructure (roads
& bridges), irrigation and electricity. The Bank has determined that these are the sectors in which
reconstruction is most urgent and in which the Bank has either already an ongoing presence
(transport and irrigation) or has sectoral experience from similar emergency operations
(electricity). The investment component would also include a subcomponent for strengthening
of emergency preparedness & response (disaster preparedness, mitigation and management), as
well as project implementation support.



Page 8
IBRD FUNDS FOR HURRICANE
GEORGES RECONSTRUCTION (US$M)
SECTOR         REALLOCATED   EMERGENCY              TOTAL
_______________   FUNDS         LOAN FUNDS'
Health                     3                0              3
Education                 10                0              10
Highways                  7.5             22.5             30
Irrigation                3.7              12             15.7
Electricity                0               7.4             7.4
SUBTOTAL                  24.2            4f.9,           66.1
Quick-Disbursing Funds (imports)           60              60
Strengthening of Emergency Preparedness    7.1             7.1
and Response e
Project Implementation Support              1               1
TOTAL                                     110*            134.2
EDB's Emergency Operation: The IDB has prepared emergency financing of US$178 million,
comprising US$89 million in reallocated funds, US$30 million to finance emergency social programs in
the flood affected areas, US$30 million for low-income communities (to be channeled through the social
fund, PROCOMIUNIDAD), US$20.3 million for rehabilitation in the water and electricity sectors, US$3.8
million for institutional strengthening in disaster prevention capability (which would be closely
coordinated with the Bank-financed component), and US$5 million to support project implementation.
This emergency financing was approved by the IDB Board on December 2, 1998.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed
cost breakdown):
Component               Categorv      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
.______________________  (US$M)         (US$M)    financing
1. Quick-disbursing component                       60.0       48          60.0   100
II. Reconstruction & Mitigation
A. Roads/Bridges                Physical          32.1       26       22.5       70
B. Irrigation                   Physical          15         12       12.0       80
C. Electricity                  Physical          9.3         7        7.4        80
D. Strengthening of            Institution        7.8        6         7.1      100
Emergency Preparedness &      Building
Response
F. Project Implementation       Project           1.0         I        1.0      100
Support                    Management
Total       125.2     100        110.0*
Actual amount of the loan is US$1 I ,110,000 due to capitalization of the front-end fee of 1%.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
D This is a multi-sectoral emergency operation which is not intended to address long-term economic
issues nor includes conditionality linked to macro-economic policies. Longer term issues of the
implementation capacity and maintenance arrangements for infrastructure are being addressed as
policy reforms under separate sectoral investment projects.
* However, important investments are included to help reduce the vulnerability of different
infrastructure works to recurring natural disasters.



Page 9
* The institutional strengthening subcomponent will improve long-term national preparedness for
natural disasters and mitigation capability.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
* The two principal benefits of the project will be:
* the resumption of economic activity supported by: (i) the quick-disbursing component, which
would finance imports needed for agriculture, and reconstruction, and (ii) the investment
component, which would finance the rehabilitation of critical public infrastructure;
* the improvement of GODR's disaster management capability, as a result of the institutional
strengthening subcomponent, which would support extensive training, specialized studies on
hazard risk mitigation, specialized experts, equipment, logistical support and some infrastructure.
Target Population
*  The principal beneficiaries will be the general population of the country, who will benefit from the
resumption of economic activity as a result of the rehabilitation of critical economic and social
infrastructure.
e  Low income groups will also benefit directly from the project, those that live in the marginal areas
that were hardest hit by the hurricane, where the reconstruction efforts in roads, bridges, irrigation
systems and electricity are being targeted.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (see Annex 2):
Project coordination and management
* A Project Coordination Unit (Comisi6n Coordinadora, CC) is being established within the STP, to
coordinate and manage the project. It will comprise staff from both the STP and a project
management firm that will be responsible for financial management, monitoring and procurement
undertaken by the implementing agencies as well as strengthening the implementation capacities of
those sectoral ministries (particularly in the social sectors) that require it. A project management firm
will be hired by the IDB to support the CC in managing its emergency loan. It is proposed that the
same project management firm be hired for both the Bank and IDB emergency projects under
separate contracts. The CC will also coordinate and monitor implementation progress according to
agreed performance indicators, and make quarterly reports to both the Bank and the IDB on the
progress of each emergency project.
Project implementation
*  Each sector investment subcomponent will be implemented by the respective line ministry
responsible for that component: the transport subcomponent by the Secretariat of Public Works
(SEOPC); the irrigation subcomponent by the National Institute of Water Resources (INDRHI); and
the electricity subcomponent by the Dominican Electricity Corporation (CDE). The institutional
strengthening subcomponent will be implemented by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
(STP). The quick-disbursing component will be implemented by the Central Bank.
*  The implementing agencies will provide progress reports to the CC on a monthly basis.
*  Procurement, contracting and payments to contractors would be undertaken by the respective
implementing agencies using Bank guidelines with the assistance of the contract management
specialist in the CC, wherever necessary.
Project supervision, reporting and audit requirements
*  A Project Implementation Manual will delineate financial management and control procedures,
including TORs for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank.
*  Each implementing agency will forecast the amount to be requested from the Special Account on a
quarterly basis. The CC will authorize the withdrawal of these funds from the Special Account and
make payments directly to the contractors/consultants.



Page 1 0
*  The CC will periodically supervise the implementation of each component of the project, and
undertake periodic field visits.
*  The CC will make quarterly reports to the Bank, including a statement of sources and uses of funds,
ensuring that all project guidelines are being followed.
*  Financial audits for all accounts and and components will be carried out annually.
*  Technical audits will be carried out for large civil works that do not include technical audits as part of
the supervision process.
*  Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no more than 4-6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
The first audit report covering expenditures incurred in CY 1998 will be due no later than June 30,
1999.
*  The auditing firm will do continuous auditing concurrent with project implementation, throughout the
life of the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
,  Reallocation ofprojectfunds, no new lending: The reallocation of funds from the ongoing projects
in education, health, irrigation and highways to the emergency reconstruction effort is the fastest
mechanism to obtain financing for the most urgent reconstruction costs. This was done immediately
following the hurricane, and funds are now being disbursed in all four of these sectors. The option of
relying purely on reallocated funds for the Bank's portion of the reconstruction effort was considered
initially. However, the damages in key infrastructure sectors are considerable, and exceed by a
considerable margin the financing available through ongoing projects. Furthermore, there is also a
need to provide financing for urgently needed imports to help economic recovery, as well as a need to
provide support for institutional strengthening in disaster management. As a result of all these
considerations, it was decided that a new emergency operation that included a quick-disbursing
component best met the emergency recovery financing needs.
Quick-disbursingfunds, no investmentfunds: As the need for quick-disbursing funds for critical
imports is urgent, the option of an ERL comprising purely quick-disbursing funds was also
considered. However, because of the urgent reconstruction needs in transport and irrigation, where
the Bank has ongoing operations, as well as the serious institutional shortcomings in disaster
preparedness, it was felt that an emergency investment component should also be included as part of
the design.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned - see Annex 10 for complete table):
The Bank has ongoing projects in transport, irrigation, education, health and environmental policy reform.
Implementation progress and adherence to development objectives have been satisfactory to date,
although disbursements have been slow. The Bank is preparing projects in the electricity and in the water
& sanitation sectors.



Page 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
From other emergency projects:
*  Speed of response is critical. Thus, the operation should be focused and simple, and unburdened with
conditionality.
*  Rapid preparation is essential for emergency projects to have the necessary impact, creating the need
to design accelerated implementation and execution arrangements.
*  Project design should also be flexible in order to respond to evolving emergency needs as project
implementation yields more information.
*  Existing institutions should be strengthened rather than creating new ones.
*  Emergency support should incorporate a plan for addressing long-term national disaster management
capability.
From project implementation experience in the Dominican Republic:
*  As past project implementation experience has been very weak, a strong commitment from GODR is
critical to attain the project objectives.
*  Most GODR agencies have weak managerial and procurement capacity. Given the size and
multisectoral nature of the emergency operation, a consulting firm experienced in emergency
reconstruction should support the Technical Secretariat in the financial management and procurement
aspects of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  GODR has expressed continuous interest in the emergency operation since the day after the hurricane
hit the country, re-emphasizing it at the Annual Meetings in early October. The STP and the sectoral
agencies have worked closely with all of the Bank missions in the preparation of the emergency
operation.
*  GODR has sent a letter to the Presidents of the Bank (and the IDB), stating that the Government is
committed to a program of restructuring and modernization of its institutional natural disaster
management capacity (Annex I 1). The program would be aimed at strengthening the capacity of
Civil Defense, ONM and other relevant GODR agencies in prevention, preparedness and mitigation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  The Bank has ongoing projects in the Dominican Republic in highways and irrigation, and is
preparing a project in the power sector. This project takes advantage of the strong working
relationships established in these sectors, as well as the technical expertise built up over the years.
*  The Bank has considerable experience and expertise in the design and implementation of emergency
operations throughout the world, for floods, cyclones, hurricanes and more recently with the El Niflo
emergency operations. The lessons and best practices from these experiences are being applied to
this project.



Page 12
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)
1. Economic
Roads & Bridges Component (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 19.3%
The physical investments financed by the project will be those most urgently needed for the
reconstruction, prevention and mitigation effort. Economic analyses will be carried out for the major civil
works that require a full design; these will be financed if they have an ERR higher than the minimum
acceptable to the Bank (approximately 12%). An economic analysis was performed for the roads &
bridges component; the results show an overall economic internal rate of return of 19.3%, with a range
varying from 12% to 28%. The economic analysis was carried out using conservative assumptions of the
costs of increased travel time and was based exclusively on maintenance, traffic and investment costs.
2. Financial
Not applicable.
Fiscal impact: For all of the physical works completed under the project, the operations and maintenance
costs will be calculated, and a commitment will be obtained from GODR to finance and carry out
appropriate operations and maintenance. An annual review of operations and maintenance costs will be
carried out three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
3. Technical:
The project will follow current economically acceptable best practices in technical standards for
infrastructure to ensure their ability to withstand natural disasters in the future and to minimize any
negative impact on the environment. Sectoral ministries have been actively involved in the preparation of
project components, ensuring their consistency with national technical standards. The critical issues
would be the skills of local contractors in applying disaster-resistant technologies and ensuring that, in
future, cpnstruction throughout the country meets technical standards to withstand natural disasters,
especially hurricanes and floods. To address these issues, the project will finance some training of local
contractors in disaster-resistant technology, and work with the regulatory and enforcement capacities of
GODR in infrastructure construction.
4. Institutional:
* Implementing agencies: In general, project implementation capacity is very weak in the Dominican
Republic. However, three out of four implementing agencies for the Emergency Loan (CDE,
INDRHI and SEOPC) have had experience in implementing Bank projects, and have stronger than
average records in implementation.
* Project management: Project coordination, monitoring and implementation will be centralized in the
CC, which will be located in the STP. The CC will be supported in all aspects of project management
by a specialized firm. The CC will be trained in Bank procurement and financial management
procedures, and will be responsible for accounting, management of the Special Account and reporting
to the Bank. The CC will be staffed with a contract management specialist who will assist the
different implementing agencies in awarding and supervising the various contracts required for
implementation.



Page 13
5. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive social impact, as a result of the reconstruction of vital
infiastructure such as roads, bridges, electricity transmission lines, and irrigation works. It will benefit
the entire population by strengthening the national capacity to prepare for and mitigate the impact of
future natural disasters
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category []A  [X] B [] C
*  The project has been rated Category "B".
*  The majority of investments are reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and are
therefore not expected to have a negative impact on the environment.
*  For any new infrastructure works detailed design studies will include environmental impact analyses.
*  The prevention/mitigation work to be done in irrigation and institutional strengthening will ultimately
have a positive effect on the environment, in the event of another natural disaster.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project has been prepared in close collaboration with GODR, local government authorities and other
donors, primarily IDB. The sectoral ministries, the local Government authorities, and the national
emergency management agencies (Civil Defense, ONM, Red Cross) were directly involved in discussions
during the preparation and appraisal missions.
Other key stakeholders:
The project was prepared in close collaboration with local and national NGOs, as well as with church
groups, particularly in San Juan de la Maguana and Tamayo, two of the most affected areas.
Consultations took place with NGOs such as the Red Cross and FUNDACEP in the San Juan region and
Catholic Church officials involved in the relief effort in the south/southwest regions of the country.
Consultations also took place with UNDP on the institutional component for disaster management.
F: Sustainability and Risks
Sustainability:
Maintenance of infrastructure: For each of the infrastructure works financed under the subproject, the
respective sectoral ministry will be expected to provide an operations and maintenance plan, including a
commitment to provide the necessary resources, before disbursements begin. An annual review of
operations and maintenance needs for each component will be carried out no later than three months prior
to the beginning of each fiscal year. Disbursements on the physical investment components in the second
year will depend on whether adequate provisions were made in the annual budget for operations and
maintenance of works initiated or completed in the first year.



Page 14
Critical Risks (reflecting assunptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
*  adequate technical standards are not used  Modest    *  Part of responsibility of project
for civil works                                         management firm in CC will be
to ensure that technical
*  civil works are not adequately maintained  Substantial  standards and provisions for
maintenance are reviewed
annually.
*  overall implementation is weak            Modest    *  Simple project design, reliance
on CC and project management
firm
*  creation of new government capacity: risk  Substantial   *  Institutional "twinning"
that national emergency management                      arrangement with institution
agencies don't have sufficient authority to             experienced in disaster
take leading role in disaster preparedness              management
and response
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
*  Counterpart funding is insufficient       Modest    *  Proportion of counterpart funds
is small
*  Capacity in the construction industry is  Modest    *  Civil works are not complex
inadequate and contractors are not well                 and within capacity of
supervised                                              construction industry
*  Procurement does not adhere to Bank       Modest    *  Project management firm will
standards                                               oversee procurement
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Use of a project management firm to support the Technical Secretariat's management of the project
might generate resentment or ill-will among GODR staff.
* Weak implementation capacity may lead to slow disbursements, generating criticism that IBRD is
unresponsive to the needs created by the hurricane.
G: Main Loan Conditions
items agreed upon during negotiations:
* That a Project Coordination Unit (CC) with a project coordinator and a financial manager will be
established, that a project management firm is hired to support the CC, and that a financial
management system acceptable to the Bank, will be set up.
* That for each component, the Government will make experienced technical staff available through the
CC to the relevant sector ministries or entities for satisfactory implementation of the components.



Page 15
* That a consulting firm will be contracted for all aspects of financial management and procurement.
* Project implementation Plans
* O&M plans for physical infrastructure works as well as agreement on including resources for O&M
of works affected by the program in the annual budget.
* Identification and corresponding documentation for items to be retroactively financed.
* TOR for contract management, project coordinator and fnancial manager
Conditions of Disbursementfor Reconstruction & Mitgation component:
* That adequate O&M provisions will be made in the annual budget for any civil works initiated or
completed during the first year of project effectiveness, as a condition of disbursement for the civil
works.
Other
* That the Government will provide quarterly progress reports to the Bank and will hold project
reviews with Bank supervision missions.
* That the Government will undertake to contract annual financial and technical audits for the project
components, and submit audit reports no later than six months following the end of the fiscal year.
For the activities to be financed retroactively, such audits will be sent to the Bank no later than June
30, 1999.
T That the Government will comply with the Bank's environmental and resettlement policies as needed.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
l ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Yes.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. [X] Not applicable.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy
Sector Manager/Director: D   yig



Page 16
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Dominican Republic: Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goals:                                                       (from Goal to Bank
1. Economic growth and    *  GDP                     Central Bank, National    Mission)
poverty alleviation       *  Data on national growth  Planning Office           *  Economic growth will
and income                                           be equitable and have a
2. Improved environmental   *  Gini coefficients                                   positive impact on
management                                                                         poverty alleviation
Project Development       Outcome Indicators:                                  (from Objectives to Goal)
Objectives:
I. To restore and/or      *  Economic activity       Quarterly reports on      *  Damage to
maintain growth in key        restored, especially in   economic performance       infrastructure from
sectors of the economy        the tourism and                                      Hurricane Georges has
agriculture sectors, for                             had a negative impact
the current (1999) and                               on economic growth.
following year (2000).
* Lack of preparedness
2. To support the         *  Damaged infrastructure   Monthly implementation       for natural disasters
reconstruction and            and facilities restored    progress reports from each  has had a negative
rehabilitation of key social  and functioning by     implementing agency to the    impact on the
and economic infrastructure  target dates, and able to  CC                         environment and has
damaged or destroyed by       withstand severe                                     worsened the condition
Hurricane Georges in          hurricane conditions and                             of the country's poor.
September 1998.               protect agriculturally
productive regions from
future flooding.
3. To reinforce vulnerable    *  Appreciable reduction    CC quarterly monitoring
infrastructure in order to   in time for restoration of and reporting
reduce losses from future     key public services
disasters                     following a disaster.
4. To strengthen the      *  Effective country-wide
country's institutional       communication and
capacity to prepare for and   disaster preparedness
respond to natural disaster   prior to future
emergencies.                  emergencies
Outputs:                  Output Indicators:                                   (from Outputs to
1. Critical imports financed   *  Degree to which quick-  Disbursement reports from    Objectives)
with quick-disbursing funds   disbursing funds are   Central Bank               *  That adequate
disbursed on schedule                               technical standards are
2. Civil Works for        *  Degree to which civil    Monthly implementation       used for civil works
reconstruction completed      works are completed on  progress reports from each
schedule.              implementing agency to CC   *  That national
emergency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _management agencies



Page 17
3. National emergency     *  Technically qualified    Quarterly reports from CC   have sufficient
management agencies          staff in adequately    to the Bank                   authority to take
adequately equipped, staffed  equipped emergency                                  leading role in disaster
and trained                  management agencies,   Action Plan to strengthen     preparedness and
with clear roles and  institutional capacity of     response
responsibilities.     national emergency
agencies
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (financing for each                           (from Components to
components: (see Annex 2   component)                                          Outputs)
for project description)
A. Imports                US$60 million             Monthly progress reports
from Central Bank to CC   *  Sufficient counterpart
funding is available
*  There is adequate
B. Reconstruction &       US$64.1 million           Monthly progress reports      capacity in the
Mitigation                                          from sectoral ministries and  construction industry
1. Roads & Bridges         US$32.1 million          CDE to CC                     and contractors are
2. Irrigation              US$15.0 million                                        well supervised
3. Electricity              US$9.3 million          Quarterly reports from CC    *  Government
4. Strengthening Emergency    US$7.7 million        to the Bank                   commitment and
Preparedness and Response                                                         resources are sufficient
to staff and equip
C. Project Implementation  US$I million                                           national emergency
Support                                                                           management agencies
appropriately



Page 18
Annex 2
Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
Project Description
A. QUICK-DISBURSING COMPONENT - US$60 million to be financed under the Loan
OBJECTIVE & SCOPE
The objective of the component is to provide US$60 million in quick-disbursing funds to finance critically needed
imports for the recovery program, including food for processing and/or for productive industries, medicine,
housing construction materials and chemical products. US$38 million of this amount would be used to finance
imports purchased after loan effectiveness, while US$22 million would be used as retroactive financing for
eligible imports purchased between September 22, 1998 and the estimated date of loan agreement signing.
IMPLEMENTATION
The component will be implemented by the Central Bank, which has the required ability and experience to ensure
compliance with agreed procurement and disbursement arrangements. It will open a Special Account in US
dollars for the component. The Loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports
that are part of a positive list agreed with GODR. The Central Bank would provide quarterly audit reports
prepared by a private, independent auditor to monitor the transparency and efficient operation of the component.
In keeping with the emergency nature of this proposed assistance, implementation arrangements would be kept
simple. To ensure due diligence and sound governance in the use of IBRD funds, the arrangements would:
*   Ensure that loan proceeds are managed responsibly and only used to finance original imports of items
contained on the positive list;
*   Ensure proper procedures in procurement and accounting, and the complete documentation of transactions;
*   Provide frequent management information using suitable monitoring and audit tools.
The Central Bank would release foreign exchange for private sector imports to commercial banks upon receiving
proof that the import transaction is eligible, i.e. (i) the item is on the positive list, and (ii) stipulated procurement
procedures have been followed. All releases of foreign exchange to commercial banks for private sector imports
would be made against equivalent Dominican peso deposits by the commercial bank into the Govemment's
counterpart fund account.
Positive List
The positive list of eligible goods to be financed, as agreed with the Central
Bank, includes only goods that are imported by the private
sector. Crude oil and petroleum derivatives were not included in the list because
their procurement is restricted to the countries that are part of the
San Jose Agreement, and it is uncertain whether their prices
and conditions would be in fact the most favorable if the competition were open to all countries.
Food
Butter oil
Sunflower oil
Soy oil
Soy flour
Corn
Non-fat powdered milk
Whole powdered milk



Page 19
Wheat
Oats
Degummed crude oil (Aceite crudo desgomado)
Garlic
Medicine
Ethyl Alcohol
Medications for human use
Veterinary Medications
Construction Materials
Clinkers to make cement
Steel wire
Steel reels/coils
Copper electric cables
Cement
Iron
Tin
Pine boards
Steel rods
"Panel (Bare Galvalun) Lamina Tipo R"
Construction rods
Fiber optic cables
"Planchuelas, angulares y barras de hierro"
Plywood
Copper wire
Chemical Products
Carbon electrodes
Electrolytic manganese
Pentaerythritol
PolyVinyl Chloride and resin
Polyol
PVC resin
Liquid caustic soda
Toluene
Titanium dioxide
Sodium sulphate
Dodecyl benzene
Acarin Diurex
Primary Materials for Industry
Kraft cardboard without stucco
Kraft paper
Corrugated cardboard
Goods to be financed retroactively
Goods                     Value (USS)
Corn                     1,774,500
Soy flour                 1,202,340
Diamonium Phosphate      1,074,150
Soy oil                  4,681,008
Laminated steel           1,306,243
Steel rods               4,071,029
Soy oil                   1,291,473
Tin                      1,035,170
Corn                      599,250
Clinker                  676,009



Page 20
B. RECONSTRUCTION & MITIGATION COMPONENT - US$50 million to be financed under the Loan
1. Roads/ Bridges (US$22.5 million)
OBJECTIVE & SCOPE
The objective of the component is to improve the transport sector's contribution to the development of major
sources of growth, and improve access to markets. This will be achieved by reconstructing 23 bridges and 8
highway sections that were severely damaged by Hurricane Georges. The component will be implemented in
three phases, in accordance with the urgency of the works to be reconstructed.
Phase I (US$5 million): This phase includes the reconstruction of 16 reinforced concrete bridges, with a total
estimated cost of approximately US$ 7.2 million, US$5 million of which will be financed by the Emergency Loan
and US$2.2 million by local counterpart funds. The structures and accesses of these bridges, located on principal
highways in La Altagracia, Hato Mayor, Azua, Monte Plata and San Juan de la Maguana, were severely affected
by the rains and subsequent flooding caused by the hurricane. The works are being contracted directly with
construction companies that have ongoing contracts under Loan 4127-DO, as an extension of these contracts, for
no more than 20% of the original contract amount.
Phase II (US$2.5 million): This phase consists of the reconstruction of seven reinforced concrete bridges with a
total estimated cost of US$3.6 million, including civil works and supervision, US$2.5 million of which will be
financed by the Emergency Loan and US$ 1.1 million from local counterpart funds. The structures and accesses
of these bridges, located on principal highways in Barahona, San Juan de la Maguana, Sanchez Ramirez and
Santiago, were also severely affected by the rains and flooding due to the hurricane. However, their
reconstruction is less urgent than that of the bridges included in Phase I. The works will be contracted out
through bidding by invitation to twelve construction companies that specialize in this type of work. None of the
companies would be awarded more than two contracts out of the total of nine.
Phase III (US$15 million): This phase comprises the reconstruction of eight highway sections with a total length
of 273 kilometers, with a total estimated cost of US$ 21.6 million, including civil works and supervision. It will
be financed by US$15 million from the Emergency Loan and local counterpart funds of US$6.6 million These
works are less urgent than those in Phases I and II, and can be postponed until the Emergency Loan becomes
effective. The highway sections were damaged by the torrential rains and flooding, which caused pavement
erosion, misalignment of ramps, erosion of gutters and waterways, destruction of concrete works (sewer systems,
stone coverings, retention walls) and the collapse of traffic signals. The structural damages of the bridge are so
severe that a new bridge will have to be constructed. The highway sections are in San Cristobal, La Altagracia,
La Vega, Independencia, Azua, Hato Mayor, and Pedernales, and the bridge is in La Vega. This phase will be
financed by the Emergency Loan, which should become effective by the end of January, 1999. However, GODR
may request retroactive financing of up to 10% of the US$15 million allocated for this phase, or US$1.5 million,
for works initiated after Sept. 23, 1998, if the Bank's bidding procedures have been followed to contract the
works.
This component would complement the reconstruction works financed by the reallocation of US$7.5 million from
the Bank's ongoing National Highways Project (Ln. 4127-DO), 1DB financing of US$5 million, EU financing,
and self-financing from SEOPC, which together would fully cover the reconstruction costs of the principal
transport network in the country.
IMPLEMENTA TION
This component would be implemented by SEOPC, specifically by the PCU of the ongoing National Highways
Project. No environmental assessment will be required since the works will entail the reconstruction of existing
structures. SEOPC will prepare monthly reports on project implementation progress, to be submitted to the PCU
of the Emergency Project.



Page 21
2. Irrigation (US$12.0 million)
OBJECTIVE & SCOPE
The objective of the component is to rehabilitate the principal irrigation schemes damaged by Hurricane Georges
would also support a series of studies of the main river basins prone to flooding as well as specific investments
aimed at mitigating flooding in the future (subcomponent II).
The rehabilitation of the 10 major irrigation schemes in the country would include, in particular: (a) the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged existing irrigation structures, including (i) the headworks and main
water diversion and conveyance structures; (ii) the water distribution and control, and drainage structures in the
secondary and tertiary networks; (b) the rehabilitation of canal ditch protection, and (c) the cleaning of silted
canals. This component, with a total estimated cost of US$ 8.8 million, including civil works and supervision,
will be financed by US$7.0 million from the Emergency Loan and local counterpart funds of US$1.8 million.
This component would complement the rehabilitation works to be financed with US$2 million reallocated from
the Bank's ongoing Irrigated Land & Watershed Management project (Ln. 3875-DO) and US$7.1 million
reallocated from the IDB's ongoing PROMACIR project. Together with about US$2.3 million of counterpart
financing from INDRHI, these amounts will fully cover the rehabilitation costs in the sector.
The component would also include key investments for structural flood control measures like river bank
protection in critical areas, and for the safety of hydraulic structures (estimated total cost of US$5.0 million to be
financed by US$8.0 million from the Emergency Loan and local counterpart funds of US$2.0 million). This
component, with a total estimated cost of US$6.3 million, will be financed by US$5.0 million from the
Emergency Loan and local counterpart funds of US$0.8 million.
IMPLEMENTATION
This component would be implemented by INDRHI, which is responsible nationwide for irrigation and has
proven capability for the rehabilitation of irrigation works. INDRHI will be responsible for contracting private
firms to execute the reconstruction and rehabilitation works. The Water User Associations will be contracted in
each irrigation district to clean the irrigation canals. No environmental assessment will be required since the
works will entail reconstruction/rehabilitation of existing irrigation structures. INDRHI will prepare monthly
reports on project implementation progress to be submitted to the PCU of the Emergency Project during the
reconstruction/rehabilitation phase, estimated at a period of one year.
3. Electricity (US$7.4 million)
OBJECTIVE & SCOPE
The objective of the project component is to contribute to the full restoration of electricity service through (i) the
rehabilitation and upgrade of part of the 69 KV transmission system; and (ii) the rehabilitation of an 8 MW
hydropower plant and access road.
The scope of the power component will include, for a total cost of US$9.0 million:
(a) rehabilitation and upgrade of about 66 km of 69 KV transmission lines (including about 500 posts) in the
Northern and Southern areas; the lines design will be upgraded to support wind velocity of 120 km/h with a safety
factor of 2.5 (tested at maximum speed of 230 km/h); the cost of this subcomponent is estimated at US$6.9million
(US$5.6 million of Bank financing);
(b) rehabilitation of the 8 MW Jimenoa power plant, including replacement of electrical equipment and plant
overhaul (repair of access road and bridges to be carried out separately by Ministry of Civil Works); the cost of
this subcomponent is estimated at US$1.5 million (US$1.2 million of Bank financing);
(c) consulting services for design and supervision of the above subcomponents; the cost of this subcomponent is
estimated at US$0.6 million (100% financed by Bank).



Page 22
The component would complement rehabilitation works financed by other donors (including IDB for US$12
million and EIB for US$9 million), that together with counterpart financing from CDE of about US$ I million,
would fully cover the cost of rehabilitation of transmission facilities as estimated by CDE and its consultant
(report of 10/20/98). The cost of rehabilitating distribution facilities (mainly in the Eastern and Southern regions)
has been estimated at US$17 million; it will be mostly financed by the capitalized utilities. Similarly, the repairs
to damaged buildings in generation facilities would be financed by the two capitalized generation companies.
The component will help to provide a reliable supply of electricity to privatized distribution utilities, in areas that
include about 570,000 customers. It will also result in the least-cost restoration of 8 MW of generation capacity
for a system that still presents a capacity deficit estimated at about 45 MW in 1998. The investment for the
rehabilitation of the Jimenoa hydropower plant will be recovered in about two years (with a yearly production of
40 GWh, valued at a low US3.0 cents/kwh).
IMPLEMENTATION
The component will be implemented by CDE with support by an engineer for design and supervision. CDE has a
proven capability for the implementation of this type of works, which will reduce the risks of delays in project
implementation. CDE will prepare monthly reports on project implementation progress to be submitted to the
PCU of the Emergency Project. No environmental assessment will be required since the works will entail
replacement/rehabilitation of existing equipment. Contracts for all civil works will include guidelines for strict
adherence to environmental standards.
Procurement plan (based on Loan effectiveness in January 1999):
Recruitment of consulting firm:     November 1998 - February 1999
Bidding documents for equipment:    March 1999
Bidding Documents for trans.lines:  March 1999
Bidding Documents for Jimenoa plant:    March-April 1999
Contracting of equipment supplier:  April 1999
Supply of equipment:                May-September 1999
Contracting of firms for transm. turnkey:  April-May 1999
Rehab/Reconstr. of transmission lines:   June 1999 - March 2000
Contracting for Jimenoa rehabilitation:    May-June 1999
Jimenoa rehabilitation:             July 1999 - June 2000
Repairs Jimenoa access road/bridge:  April -July 1999
4. Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response (US$7.1 million)
OBJECTIVE & SCOPE
In the area of emergency preparedness and disaster management, this component will support the
Government's Action Plan (Annex 12) to restructure and modernize key national institutions responsible for
emergency preparedness and disaster management. The component would also support other vulnerability
reduction measures that would include (a) the development of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for
the Dominican Republic; (b) adoption and effective enforcement of a national building code to enhance the
resilience of both public and private buildings to natural disasters such as hurricanes; and (c) adoption of
insurance codes to mitigate risk from recurring natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods.
A critical factor in a well-managed disaster preparedness and response system is whether the national disaster
management agency is alerted in advance of an impending disaster and whether, in turn, the national agency is
able to communicate accurate information on a timely and continual basis to local communities. The program
will therefore support the establishment of an effective National Early Warning System by enhancing the capacity
of the National Meteorological Office Services (OSNM) as well as of the National Water Resources Institute
(INDRH1) through the provision of appropriate equipment and training.



Page 23
The proposed plan of action for the Development of a National Alerting and Warning System would be as
follows:
* At the national level, the program will strengthen the institutions responsible for disaster preparedness and
response (in particular the Civil Defense, INDRHI, INAPA, CDE, Seismologic Institute). It will also aim to
enhance the operational links, including communications, between the national agency and other stakeholders in
government ministries, private businesses, NGOs (the Red Cross in particular), and most importantly, local
communities.
A National Hazard Prevention and Mitigation Council will be set up to serve as a steering committee to
coordinate policy issues such as building codes or disaster-resistant construction practices, improved land use
planning, et., approve the selection of priority investments, and help ensure compliance of government
recommendations. The committee will consist of representatives of relevant public institutions as well as
representatives from the private sector, NGOs and civil society.
The proposed component would provide financing for: (i) specialized equipment needed to provide an
effective early warning system in ONM and INDRHI; (ii) technical consultants and logistical support required by
institutions responsible for emergency preparedness and response (in particular the Civil Defense); (iii) public
information and training of staff in the ONM and INDRHI, at the national level in disaster preparedness, and at
the community level, of local governments and rural communities to be prepared for and be able to respond to
emergencies arising from recurring natural disasters; and (iv) Technical Assistance for the overall management of
the emergency project.
It would also provide financing of US$2.5 million (towards a total of US$7.7 million for the strengthening of the
Emergency Preparedness and Response Component to support disaster mitigation activities, in particular:
(i) an analysis of the hydrology and hydrogeology of the main river basins, Yaque del Norte, Yaque del Sur and
Ozama;
(ii) a simulation study and impact assessment of flooding in selected flood risk prone areas;
(iii) a study for the development of a River Basin Water Management Strategy (US$ 1.0 million), including an
analysis and balancing of basin water resources (surface and groundwater) and demands, and emergency plan for
large flood/drought;
(iv) Hazard Analysis / Vulnerability Mapping (US$250,000). This component would support the development of
a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for the DR; the carrying out of a population vulnerability analysis;
and training for government, private sector and communities to identify strategies to use the results of this
analysis for disaster mitigation measures.
(v) a program forVulnerability Reduction of Public and Private Buildings (US$100,000). This program would
aim to strengthen the resilience of public and private structures to recurring disasters through the adoption of a
national building code and its effective enforcement through proper building inspection measures.
(iii) a study for Insurance / Reinsurance Schemes (US$150,000). This activity would examine measures needed
in the development of a more effective insurance strategy to minimize the cost of insurance for a given level of
risk. It would examine existing regulatory requirements covering building codes, land use planning, and
recommend improvements to current practices; it would also consider the development of special financial
instruments.
*   At the community level, it will support Local Disaster Committees and strengthen their capacity to prepare
community disaster plans and respond to and manage disasters and emergencies. The likelihood of repeat
disasters such as Hurricane Georges remains high. Also, the Dominican Republic is subject to other natural
disasters involving seismic activities. International experience indicates that true natural hazard vulnerability
reduction occurs only if the government and the people jointly take appropriate action to minimize the risks of



Page 24
future losses. At the regional and local levels, the communities and villages are in the best position to identify
community needs and offer assistance in attaining them. A program of training and technical assistance is
proposed under the project to identify and propose community awareness activities and the development of early
warning system and hazard reduction plans.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT - US$1 million to be financed under the loan
Project Management and Coordination
Project coordination, monitoring and implementation will be centralized in the Project Coordination Unit (CC),
which will be located in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP). The CC will be supported in all
aspects of project management by a specialized firm which will be responsible for coordinating and supervising
day-to-day implementation of the project. The CC will include full-time professional personnel - a Project
Manager, Procurement Officer, and Financial Manager with adequate support staff.
In implementing the project, the CC and other entities involved in project execution would be guided by a
Project Operational Manual (POM). The POM, the final content of which will be agreed with the Bank, will
include the following main items: (a) organizational arrangements, including specific relationships and
responsibilities for project execution; (b) the content of all components and sub-components of the project; (c)
operational procedures (both Government- and Bank-appropriate) for the procurement of goods, works and
services to be followed in project implementation; (d) a timetable delineating targeted completion dates for the
project components; (e) disbursement and procurement arrangements, including reference to the standard bidding
documents to be used for works and goods, and standard consultant contracts; (f) financial management and
control arrangements, including Terms of Reference (TORs) for the coordination of internal and external project
audits and project monitoring and evaluation; (g) agreed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, to guide
assessment of project implementation performance during project reviews; (h) TORs for the staff of the CC and
all experts to be employed under the project, and (i) other such matters agreed upon between the Government and
the Bank.
Monitoring, Reporting and Implementation Completion Report
The CC will present to the Bank, no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of each calendar year,
beginning March 31, 1999, a Project Implementation Report covering project implementation activities .uring the
previous three-month period. This report will include, among other things, the following information: (i)
compliance with the Project Operational Manual; (ii) the Project Operational Plan for the quarter under review;
and (iii) the Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation indicators. The quarterly project implementation progress
reports will be discussed during the Annual and Midterm Project Reviews. The CC will also be responsible for
the preparation of the Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR), within six months of the closing date.
Concurrent Project Reviews. Concurrent Project Reviews will begin in February 1999 and take place
throughout the life of the project, under the coordination of the CC and the professional audit firm. Such reviews
shall focus primarily on: (a) the Project Implementation Report, and (b) the Project Implementation Plan proposed
for the following calendar year. These reviews will foster transparency in the use and accounting of funds
managed by each implementing agency, not only for the funds obtained from external sources, but also from
internal sources.
Financial Management, Accounts and Audits
An evaluation of existing financial management procedures and the accounting systems and administrative
controls of the Government was carried out during preparation of the emergency recovery loan. It was noted that
the country's financial management system is highly centralized, with the Government Treasury responsible for
general control of the executive branch. Financial activities are limited to providing information in accounting
formats to the MOF, for payment and accounting purposes. The existing governmental financial management
procedures, as well as the areas of accounting, budgeting, financial planning and analysis, have been identified as



Page 25
areas for improvement. To this end, the project supports the function of financial management to be carTied out
by the project management firm contracted for project implementation and coordination.
The CC will maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of the project, and will prepare a monthly statement of
expenditures. This procedure will facilitate the preparation of withdrawal applications and expedite the
disbursement process. IBRD would require annual financial audit reports from external auditors (independent and
suitably qualified) for project accounts with a separate opinion on the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures. The Financial Audit Reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of the financial year. The first audit report would be submitted by June 30, 1999, covering expenditures incurred
(and financed retroactively) in CY 1998.



Page 26
Annex 3
HURRICANE GEORGES EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component       Procurement          Base Costs         Physical   Price     TOTAL        Loan
Category    Local  Foreign   Total  Conting.  Conting.   COSTS    Financing
A. Imports                     GOODS          0.0      60.0    60.0       0.0        0.0      60.0          60.0
B. Reconstruction and
Mitigation
1 Transport                     CW         11.5      17.2    28.7       2.9        0.6       32.1          22.5
2. Irrigation               CW-GOODS        5.4       8.0    13.4       1.3        0.3       15.0          12.0
3. Electricity              CW-GOODS-       3.3       5.0      8.3      0.8        0.2        9.3           7.4
CON
4. Strengthening Emergency
Preparedness & Response
A. National Level
Studies                   CON           0.0      2.5      2.5       0.3       0.1        2.8           2.8
Technical Assistance       CON          0.0       1.3     1.3       0.1       0.0        1.5           1.5
EquipmenVInfrastrudure    GOODS         0.3      2.5      2.8       0.3       0.1        3.1           2.5
B. RegionaV Local Level
Training and Technical     CON          0.1      0.2      0.3       0.0       0.0        0.3           0.3
Assistance
C. Implementation Support
Management Firm             CON          0.0       0.7      0.7      0.1        0.0        0.8           0.8
Audits                      CON          0.0       0.2      0.2      0.0        0.0        0.2           0.2
TOTAL PROJECT                                20.5      97.7   118.2       5.8        1.2     125.2         110.0
COSTS =
CW = Civil Works; CON = Consultancieslrraining; GOODS = Goods & Equipment; MISC - Miscellaneous
Physical Contingencies = 10%; Price Contingencies = 2%



Page 27
Annex 4
Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
Economic Analysis of Roads & Bridges Component
An economic analysis was performed for the road and bridge component of the project, to be implemented in three
phases. The sub-components of each phase are: a) construction of 763 meters of high priority bridges (16 in total)
replacing those severely damaged or destroyed by the hurricane and river floods (phase 1); b) reconstruction of 409
meters of bridges (7 in total), equally severely damaged or destroyed (phase 2); and c) about 273 km of road
reconstruction (8 road sections) (phase 3).
The economic analysis was undertaken with the application of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model
(HDM) for the highway sections, and the VOC (vehicle operating costs subroutine of the HDM model) for the
bridges. The results of the economic analysis show an overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 19.3%,
well above the minimum required of 12%. Table 0. 1 summarizes the costs and economic return of the components.
Table D1. Summary of Economic Evaluation
Economic
Estimated          Rate of          Net Present
Cost (US$          Return              Value
Components                           million)            1%)           (US$ million)
PHASE l: Highest Priority              7.177           15.24%               1.180
Bridges
PHASE Il: 2nd Highest                  3.565           15.16%               0.557
Priority Bridges
PHASE IlIl Road                       21.558           21.39%              19.800
Reconstruction
Combined Total                        32.300           19.33%              21.537
The economic feasibility of bridges, although very dependent on the annual maintenance cost of the temporary
diversions, also depends on vehicle operating costs. To minimize the effect of time delays without the project, a
factor that can be very subjective in developing countries, the increase in travel time affecting passengers, crew and
cargo loads was taken into account in a conservative way: for passengers, the cost of time was estimated from US$
0.60 per hour for car passengers to and extremely low of US$ 0.14 per hour for bus and microbus passengers, (the
country minimum wage is US$ 0.53 the hour).
The results of the economic analysis of the project, including the sensitivity analysis of the economic indicators for
each of the three phases, strongly support the financing for each of the works included in the three phases of the
component as a high priority in the emergency circumstances of the country.
The economic analysis was carried out based exclusively on maintenance, traffic and investment costs. The EIRR
of the project components reach almost 20.0% on weighted average, the EIRR of the bridge sub-component ranges
from 12.0% to more than 28.0%, with a weighted value of about 15.0%, and the EIRR of the road sub-component
ranges from almost 15.0% to more than 28%, averaging a robust 21.0% for the whole road sub-program.



Page 28
Annex 5
HURRICANE GEORGES EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
I. Proiect Part A. Imports Component
Procurement
Al. Summary of Procurement Arraneements
Goods for contracts valued at or more    Simplified International Competitive
than US$5 million                        Bidding procedures under Clauses 2.63
and 2.64 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines
Goods for contracts valued at less than  Based on established commercial
US$5 million                             practices
Private sector import contracts costing  Ineligible for financing under the Loan
less than US$500,000               I
A positive list of items for import financing has been agreed with the Government (Attachment). All goods
included in the positive list correspond to imports made by the private sector. Procurement would be limited to
goods from countries that are eligible under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and revised September 1997) and
are also participating countries under current IBRD and IDA guidelines. No more than 50 percent of the Loan
would be used in the aggregate for the import of any single item of the positive list.
Goods and commodities with a contract value of or more than US$5 million to be procured under the loan, would
follow simplified international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Clauses
2.63 and 2.64). Goods and commodities with a contract valued of less than US$5 million would be procured
through established commercial practices. Import contracts of less than US$500,000 would not be eligible for
financing under the Loan to avoid excessive overhead costs.
Disbursement
BI. Summary of Disbursement Arranfements
Disbursement            Amount of Loan                Percent of
Category                 Allocated              expenditures to be
(USS million)               financed
Commodities and                60.0                    100 per cent
goods__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total                     60.0                   100 per cent
A Special Account with an authorized allocation of US$20 million would be established at the Central Bank.
Disbursements would be made into the Special Account on the basis of fully documented withdrawal applications
prepared by the Central Bank. This component is expected to disburse in about six months. The completion date
for this component would therefore be June 30, 1999, with six months thereafter for the finalization of accounts and
submission of final withdrawal applications and other reports.



Page 29
II. Part B and Part C. Reconstruction and Mitigtion
Procurement
Civil Works: The civil works under this component consist of reconstruction of roads, bridges, irrigation canals,
rehabilitation and upgrade of electric transmission lines, rehabilitation of a power plant, river control and flood
damage reduction, construction of houses. For these works, no ICB procedures are proposed given the type of
works and size of the contracts.
* NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank will be used for contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 and less
than US$3 million up to an aggregate amount of US$30.2 million. The following principles will govern
procurement under NCB: (i) foreign contractors will be allowed to bid on all contracts and will not be required to
associate with local contractors or suppliers; (ii) there will be no restriction on sources of labor or materials, except
for use of unskilled labor; (iii) invitation to bid will be advertised for at least three days in a newspaper with wide
circulation in the Dominican Republic; (iv) no reference to minimum or maximum prices will be used for purposes
of evaluation of bids for works or supplv of goods; (v) bids will be opened in public; and (vi) contracts must be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the bidding documents.
 Price Quotations. Works estimated to cost US$500,000 or less equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$14.5 million will be proceed on the basis of price quotations obtained from three qualified contractors (with
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract) in response to a written invitation. The invitation
will include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings when necessary. The award will be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder.
i Direct Contracting. Civil works estimated to cost less than US$600,000 equivalent per contract for the First Phase of
the Roads and Bridges emergency program (including 16 bridges, the reconstruction of which is considered very
urgent) and the cleaning of the irrigation canals with an aggregate cost of US$10.0 million, will be (are being)
directly awarded respectively, to the contractors already working in similar works in nearby localities under the
NHP, and to the Water User Associations or the beneficiary communities, under the supervision of INDRHI using
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Goods and Equipment: International shopping will be used for the procurement of goods and equipment in
packages estimated to cost less than US$100,000 individually up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million for the
rehabilitation of the Jimenoa hydropower plant, and up to an aggregate amount of US$2.7 million for the equipment
of a National Alert and Prevention Disaster Management System. Price quotations will be used for the procurement
of goods and equipment in packages estimated to cost less than US$60,000 individually up to an aggregate amount
of US$300,000 for the rehabilitation of electric pumps in the irrigation districts.
Consulting Services. Consultants for civil work supervision and studies will be selected and engaged
following the January, revised September 1997 Bank Group consultant guidelines. The hiring of
consultants will be made using QBCS, and hiring of individuals will be made on Selection Based on
Qualifications.



Page 30
Table A2. Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure                           Procurement Method
Category     NCB   Intemat.       Price       Direct     Other      Total Cost
Shopping  Quotations  Contracting              (including
contingencies)
Works         30.2                 14.5         10                     54.7
(22.1)              (I 11.1)     (7.3)    _              (40.5)
Goods                  4.0         0.3                                  4.3
(3_1)      (0.2)                                (3.3)
Consulting                                                6.2           6.2
Services                                                 (6.2)         (6.2)
Total         30.2      4.0        14.8         10        6.2          65.2
_  (22.1)    (3.1)    (11.3)       (7.3)     (6.2)        (50.0)
Prior review thresholds
The Bank will review ex-ante procurement documentation (advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and
contract award) for the first two contracts under NCB, direct contracting and quotations for civil works and
procurement of goods other than electricity goods. Contracts for electricity goods to be awarded through shopping
procedures would require prior review of the specifications, evaluation report and recommendation of award in each
case. The documents for the remaining contracts under NBC will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank. All
other procurement documentation will be retained by the executing agencies and subject to selective ex-post review
by the Bank's supervision missions. The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitations, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost US$50,000
equivalent or less each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost $20,000
equivalent or less each. However, this exemption to prior Bank review will not apply to: (a) terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $20,000 equivalent or more.



Page 31
Table B2. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure    Contract Value       Procurement        Review       Estimated Total
Category       (Threshold)           Method                        Value Subject to
US$                                              Prior Review
(US$ million)
1. Works
>500,000 and    NCB                   First two         8.4
<3,000,000                           each year
- a. Roads &   < 600,000          Direct contracting   First two          1.1
Bridges first                                          each year
phase
- b. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                                _
- Other than a  < 500,000         Quotations           First two          1.6
and b                                                  each year
2. Goods
* Other than
Electricity    <100,000       Price Quotations      First two         0.3
________ ________ _   _______each   year
*  Electricity    > 100,000       International           All             1.3
Shopping
3. Services
>50,000         QCBS                    All             5.6
> 25,000         Individuals             All            0.6
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$18.9 (30%)
Disbursement
Table C2. Allocation of Loan proceeds
Category                     Amount of Loan       Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated (US$                financed
millions)
Part A. Imports                   60.0          100% of eligible goods
Goods
Parts B and C. Reconstruction and Mitigation
- Goods (other than Part A)       3.0         100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory)
85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
- Works under:
* B I. Roads & Bridges           19.8         70%
* OtherthanBI                    16.0         80%
- Consultants                     5.5          100%
- Unallocated                     5.7
- Fee                             1.1
TOTAL                    111.1 I



Page 32
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs):
SOEs will be submitted for (a) all civil works contracts less than US$1.0 million each; (b) all goods' contracts less
than US$150,000; (c) all consulting firm contracts less than US$50,000, and; (d) all individual contracts less than
US25,000.
Special Account
The Government will establish a Special Account (SA) in the Central Bank. Up to US$5.0 million can be advanced
from the Loan into the SA to facilitate disbursements for the purpose of the project. The SA will be replenished by
submitting withdrawal applications to the Bank on a monthly basis.
Retroactive Financini
To facilitate the financing of expenses that have already been made as a result of the emergency, the Loan would
allow retroactive financing up to a ceiling of US$22 million. This would apply for expenditures incuffed within the
four months prior to the date of the Loan Agreement but after September 22, 1998.



Page 33
Annex 6
Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
$129,600             $85,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      2 months              2 months
First Bank mission (identification)             10/01/1998           10/01/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     10/22/1998           10/22/1998
Negotiations                                    12/01/1998           12/01/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/31/1999
Prepared by: Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
Preparation assistance: Bank Budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Eugene D. McCarthy                           Task Manager
Elizabeth Waters                          Country Officer
Daniel Moreau                          Agriculture Specialist
Jose Alonso-Biarge                        Highway Engineer
Philippe Durand                          Energy Specialist
Robert Panfil                          Municipal Specialist
Ferenc Molnar                            Country Lawyer
Efraim Jimenez                          Procurement Officer
Michael Fowler                         Disbursement Officer
Marisela Montoliu Munioz                   Resident Representative



Page 34
Annex 7
Key Performance Indicators
A.   Input Indicators measure the quantity of resources provided for the project activities.
1.   Project Resources (US$).
Project Components              IBRD        SEOPC  I        Others        Total
Civil Works and Supervision      22.5          9.9            -            32.4
2.    Maintenance budget (see Annex I I of National Highway Project-Loan 41270 DO).
3.    Disbursements (US$).
Bank's          1999                    2000                      2001
FY
IBRD      SEOPC    IBRD          SEOPC          IBRD          SEOPC
Estimate        6.3        2.7       8.          3.6          7.8            3.4
US$                                   4
million
Actual
US$
Million
4.    Average Supervision Cost as percentage of civil works contracts.
Bank's FY                           1999     2000    2001
Supervision cost/civil works cost
Estimate: 10% (includingtechnical auditing).
5.    Average percentage of physical continncies in civil works.
Bank's FY                        1  1999      2000      2001
Physical Contingencies in Civil
Works (%)
Estimate: 10%.
6.    Average percentage of contingencies in consulting contracts.
Bank's FY                             1999      2000      2001
Contingencies in Consulting Contracts
(%)
Estimate: 10%.
7.    Percentage of contracts completed on time.
Bank's FY                        | 1999   | 2000  I 2001
Contracts Completed on time (%)   I
More than 80%: very        60-80%:           40-60%:             Less than 40%: very
satisfactory               satisfactory      unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
8.    Percentage of contracts completed on budget.
Bank's FY                        | 1999      2000     2001



Page 35
J     Contracts Completed on budget (%) I      I         I        I
More than 80%: very       60-80%:          40-60%:            Less than 40%: very
satisfactory              satisfactory     unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
B.   Output Indicators measure the quantity of goods and services provided through the use of inputs.
1.   Civil Works.
Project Components/Bank's        1999       2000       2001
FY
Beach Reconstruction (meters)
Road Reconstruction (km)
Compare with Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 12).
C.   Outcome Indicators measure the quantity of direct results that have been achieved through the provision of
project goods and services.
i.   Vehicle Usage - ADT (Average Daily Traffic). Indicators - VPD (Vehicles per Day).
2.   Road Condition.
Current and Future Condition of the Highw   Network
1995             2001             2001
Planned          Actual
Paved Network     3831      100%    4240
Good              3110       81%    4240   100%
Condition                         I
Poor Condition     721       19%      0      0%
Total Network      5053     100%    5167      ==                 =
Good              3477       69%    4607    89%
Condition                                            _
Poor Condition     1576     31%      560    11%   _ -
3.   Improve Maintenance Efficiency (see annex 11 of National Highway Project - Loan 4127 DO)..
4.   Expected progress of routine maintenance by contract (see annex 11 of National Highway Project - Loan
4127 DO).
5.   Financing of Maintenance:* (See annex 11 of National Highway Project - Loan 4127 DO).
* Only non-programmable routine maintenance and emergencies
D.   Impact Indicators measure the degree to which project objectives are being achieve through the direct
outcomes of project activities.
1.   Objective: reduce traffic congestion. Indicator: average speed.
2.   Objective: reduce vehicle operation cost. Indicator: cost per vehicle-km.*
* < 0.2 =Low         0.27-0.33           0.33-0.45            > 0.45 = Very
Good                High                 high



Page 36
3.   Objective: improve road safety. Indicator: accidents (injuries and fatalities - see annex 11 of National
Highway Project- Loan 4127 DO).
4.   Objective: improve maintenance efficiency. Indicator: cost per lane-km (see annex 11 of National Highway
Project - Loan 4127 DO).
5. Objective: ensure adequate financing of maintenance. Indicator: planned, allocated and spent resources for
maintenance (see annex 11 of National Highway Project Loan 4127 DO).
ACTIVITY                     UNIT       PYl      PY2       PY3    TOTAL
I. Rehabilitation Works
*  Canal Rehabilitation       km       100%                         100%
*  Canal ditch protection     km        60%      40%                100%
*  Canal cleaning             km       100%__                       100%
Disbursement I.             (USS
million)    6.3      0.7                 7.0
II. Prevention/Mitieation
*  Hydrogeology study                  100%                         100%
*  Flood simulation                      -       100%               100%
*  Water Management                              70%       30%
Strategy                                                         100%
*  Flood/Drought                                          100%
Emergency plan                                                   100%
*  Prevention works                              50%       50%      100%
40%      60%       100%
Disbursement.fI             (US$
million)    1.0      3.5       3.S       8.0
Component Disbursement    (US$
Per Project Year         million)      7.3      .2        3.5      15.0
% of Total Loan         I_ _    49%             28%      23%       100%
III. Power Component (implemented over 2 years)
CY 1999
(i) Engineering firm recruited (March 1999)
(ii) Contracts signed by July 1999 for (a) transmission lines reconstruction; (b) supply of transmission equipment;
and (c) rehabilitation of hydropower plant
(iii) GODR/CDE contribution to subcomponent cost is mobilized on a timely basis (total US$2.5 million over 2
years)
CY2000
(i) 60 km of 69 KV transmission lines are satisfactorily completed by contractor
(iii) repairs works are satisfactorily completed by CDE
(iii) rehabilitation of 8 MW Jimeno hydropower plant is satisfacrtorily completed by contractor
(iv) final report on subcomponent implementation is produced by CDE/engineer
CY2001
(i) Facilities financed under the project subcomponent are properly operated and maintained



Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual            LaJt AM3P
Loan or   Viscal                                                                                                           dimbur-  nmita a/      s8prvidion
Rating b/
Project ID      Credit     Year          Borrower                 Purpose
Na.                                                                  rBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbur-ed   Orig    rrm Rev'd          Dow Obj      X 
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 33
Active Loans
DO-PE-35722   rBRD 41270  1997  GOV'T. OF DON. REP.    NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.               75.00     0.00              0.00         72.00    22.67           2.34       S          S
DO-PE-35733   IBRD 42930  1998  GOVERNMENT                 ENVIRONMENT POLICY             3.00     0.00              0.00          3.00      0.00          0.00       5          S
DO-PE-7015    IBRD 42720  1998                              PROV.HEALTH SERV.PRJ         30.00     0.00              0.00         30.00       .92          0.00       S          S
DO-PE-35494   IBRD 3951A           GOV'T OF DOMINICAN R  BASIC EDUCATION                 36.40     0.00              0.00         36.13    18.33           7.80       S          S
DO-PE-7020    IBRD 3875A           GOVERNMENT OF DR         IRRIG LAND & WATERSH         27.63     0.00              0.00         27.61      9.14          0.00       S          S
Total                                                                                   172.03     0.00              0.00        170.01    52.28          11.36
IV
Active Loans            Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   3.30                  546.96               550.26
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                  323.68                323.68
Total now held by I8RD and IDA:                 172.03                  223.28               395.31
Amount sold                                       0.00                    0.00                  0.00
Of which repaid               :0.00                                    0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              170.01                    0.00               170.01
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory,
U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecH94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 38
Annex 9
Dominican Republic at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTYandSOCIAL                              Dominkan  America   middle.
Republic   & Carib.  Income              Development diamond
1997
Populabon, mid-year(mllbos)                         8.1      494      2,28                 Life expectancy
GNP per capitat(Atss method. USS)                 1.570     3,880     1,230
GNP(Adeasmethod, USS                               13.5    1.917      2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-
Populatlon(%)                                       1.8       1.7       1.2     G 
Labor force(%)                                      2.7       2.3       1.3     GNP          7                 G Irosrs
Most recent esUmate (latest year available, 199t1                               capita                     enrolment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty
Urban          % of total                            63        74       42
Life expectancy at birth(years)                      71        70       69
Infant mortality(per 1.000 lie                       38        32       36
Child malnutrition (% of children under               6                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of                           71        73       84
"literacy (% of population age                       18        13       19
Gross primary enrolrlent (%of school-age            103       111      111              Domoiican
Male                                              103                 11a             Lower-middle-kncone
Female                                            104                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic atioa
GDP (US$                                    4.0     6.1      13.2      14.7
Gross domestic                             22.5    21.1      27.5      2B8. T5de
Exports of goods and                       20.9    23.0      29.1      30.4                     ra
Gross domestic                             15.2    17.3      19.0      20.8
Gross national                             18.3    17.8      25.7      27.3
Current account                            -3.3    -3.4      -1.8      -1.5     Domestic                   Invetm ent
Interest paymnenWGDP                        0.9     3.0       1.2       1.2     Saviegn
Total debtlGDP                             20.8    60.2      32.7      28.4     Savings
Total debt                                 11.2    24.7      11.2
Present value of                             .
Present value of
Indebtednes
1976-86  1987-97    1906      1997  1998.02
(average annual
GDP                                3.3      3.4      7.3      8.2       5.2           Dominican
GNP per capita                     0.3      1.7      5.7      3.6       3.6              Lower-middle-income
Exports of goods and               9.2      7.6    13.3       8.6       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1076    1986      1996      1997
(% of GDP)                                                                     i Growth rates of output and Investment (A
Agriculture                                19.0    17.4      12.9      13.0    j       _
Industry                                   31.3    23.7      31.6      32.4    A20-r
Manufacturing                            20.6    12.7       17.0     17.0
Services                                   49.6    59.0      55.4      54.5                                         1 r
Prvate                                     80.9    72.4      74.8      67.3   620 
General govemment                          3.8    10.2        8.2      11.9                   G 
Imports of goods and                       28.2    26.7      37.6      381                    GDI    49GOP
1976-86  1987-97     1996     1997
(average annual                                                               '       Growth rates of exports and
Agriculture                                 2.8      19       9.5       3      30            Imports I%)
Industry                                    2.2     3.6       7.0      106    2
Manufacturing                             2.3      3.0       4.1      7.9   15
Services                                   4.1      3.7       7.0       7.9   O0.
Private                                     2.6     4.0       6.8       59     '
General government                         14.3     0.0       3.2      19.1    0
Gross domestc                               0.9     2.4       8.5       4.3     s      2                         07
Imports of goods and                        7.5     4.8       9.8       7.8        ~        Expon    -    imports
Gross nabonal                               2.8     3.7       7.6       5.5
Note: 1997 data are prehminary
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the
be incomplete.



Page 39
Dominican Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997-
Domestic prices                                                                                  Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer                                      7.8      9.7       5.4       8.3   ,5b
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.9      9.3       5.4       6.8    40
Government finance                                                                *0
(% of GDP, includes current                                                       1
Current                                                          19.9     20.S             92    93   94   89   98   97
Current budget                                                   6.6       4.5                   GOP detator    * lCPl
Overall                                                          -1 0      O.C
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997    j
(US$                                                                                        Export and Import levels
Total exports (fob)                             --    897       1,804    1,873     .oo          (USS millions)
Sugar                                                114        142      141     4.00
Gold                                                 105        46        40     3500
Manufactures                                          58        128      126     2,01
Total imports (cif.    1,879                                    4,215    4,260     2s0              *
Food                                          .       45       373       396  , O0
Fuel and energy                                      507       863       921     o500o
Capital goods                                 -      303       815       853                                     9    97
91  92  53  94   oS  98  97
Export price index (1995= 100)                         69         96        94
Import price index(1995= 100)                  --      54        106        99    ,          aExports      *Jmports
Terms of trade(1995= 100)                       .      128        91        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS                                                                                       Current account balance to
Exports of goods and                         844    1,499       3,895    4,050                   GDP ratio (%)
Imports of goods and                         990    2,059      4,218    4,427    ,0
Resource                                     -146     -560      -323      -377                         94  95
Net ircome                                   -109     -245     -1,063   -1,193    1         U    Li
Net current transfers                        126      596       1,147    1,345
3      I
Current account                              -129     -209      -239      -225    T
Financing items                              107      227        278      331    -
Changes in net                                 23     -18        -39      -106    -
Memo:                                                                              7
Reserves including    (USS .$    359                             375      475    .4
Conversion rate(DEC, localJUS$)               1.0      2.9       13.8     14.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS                                                                                        Composltion of total debt,
Total debt outstanding and                   814    3,687       4,310    4,171                  1995 (mil. USS)
IBRD                                        20      180        244      217                         A: 217 8:16
IDA                                          11      21         17        16               G.615           C:30
Total debt service                            108      374       445         -
IBRD                                         4       33         56        42                                    D. 912
IDA                                          0         1         1         1
F: 623
Composition of net resource                                                            962
Ofticial grants                              ..
Official creditors                          54      102        -20
Pnvate creditors                            61        -8       -28
Foreign direct                                                 358      405
Porttotio equity                                                                                   E: 1.758
World Bank
Commitments                                  10       0         37        75     A - IBRO                     E-
Disbursements                                6       13         18        13     8 - IDA    D - Other         F- Prvate
Prncipal                                     2       18         38        27     C - IMF                      G - Shonrtenn
Net flows                                    4        -6       -20       -14
Interest payments                            2       15         19        16
Net transfers                                2      -21        -39      -29
Development                                                                                                          8/31198



Page 40
Annex 10
Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies
(completed, ongoing, and planned)
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-finance projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Contribute to major sources of growth,  National Highways       S              S
improve access to markets, consolidate  (Ln 4127-DO)
institutional capacity gains achieved in
SEOPC under previous loan, 3350-DO.
Improve small-farmer income, develop  Irrigated Land &          S              S
efficient production support services,   Watershed Management
water management & irrigation      (Ln 3875-DO)
systems.        -__   __
Improve basic education quality,   Basic Education              S              S
enrollment & completion rates,     (Ln 3951-DO)
strengthen tech. & resource mngmnt.
Improve health of population, espec.    Provincial Health       S              S
poor, pregnant & lactating women &  Services
children under 5 in selected areas.  (Ln 4272-DO)
Improve env. mngmnt through policy   National Environmental     S              S
reforms and a National Environmental  Policy Reform
Management Program (NEMP).        (Ln 4293-DO)
Improve sector efficiency, increase  Power Market            Planned
competition, reduce sector fiscal  Development
burden, mitigate env. impacts of the
sector, and reduce cost of power.
Improve sanit. services in tourism  Water & Sanitation in    Planned
areas, thus improving quality of coastal  Tourism Areas
env; improve standard of living of poor
in vicinity of tourism centers; improve
public health; and inc. environ.
sustainability of tourism industry.
Other development agencies         _    _ _ _ _
Interamerican Development Bank:    Multi-Sectoral
Address Hurricane Georges damages    Emergency Operation:
$105 m for 2 years
USAID: Address Hurricane Georges    Multi-Sectoral
damages                            Emergency Operation:
$20 m for 1-2 years
European Union: Address Hurricane    Multi-Sectoral
Georges damages                    Emergency Operation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page 41
Annex 11
Letter to Presidents of IBRD and IDB, Concerning Institutional
Strengthening in Disaster Management
Repaiblica Dominicana
Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
Santo Domingo, D. N.
Senor
James Wolfensohn
PRESIDENTE
Banco Mundial
SU DESPACHO.
Senor
Enrigue IlMesias
PRESIDENTE
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
SU DESPACHO.
Distinguidos senores Presidentes:
El Gobierno Dominicano, mediante una carta en la que define su poliftica en materia de
prevenci6n y mitigaci6n de desastres, de fecha 6 de noviembre de 1998, asumi6 el compromiso
de 'articular un proyecto de fortalecimiento institucional en manejo de desastres, tcnicamente
adecuado y politicamente viable, que pueda ser inidcado con la mayor prontitud posible y ser
frnanciado a traves de partidas consignadas para ese propdsito en prestamos de emergencla,
complementarlas de las asignaclones que disponga el Gobiemo Domlnicano con sus proplos
recursos, a fin de que se ejecute conjuntamente con los otros componentes del Plan de
Reconstruccion Nacional'
Como es de su conocimiento, las Naciones Unidas decNararon la decada del 90 como el "Decenlo
Internacional para la Reducci6n de Desastres Naturales". Para muchos paises en vias de
desarrollo, esta decada tambien representa un perfodo en el cual enfrentar desastres naturales
es sin6nimo de desarrollo: el costo de rehabilitaci6n y reconstrucci6n despues de los desastres,
al consumir el capital disponible reduce significativamente las fuentes para nuevas inversiones.
Las perdidas a causa de desastres son pavorosas. Los indices de destrucd6n han aumentado
decada tras d6cada. Los efectos adversos en el empleo, en la balanza comercial y en el
endeudamiento externo se han seguido sintiendo aflos despues de ocurrido un desastre. Lo peor
del caso es que los paises mas pobres y especificamente, los segmentos con menores ingresos
de su poblaci6n, son los que sufren los impactos mhs severos. Los programas intemacbonales de
ayuda y rehabilitaci6n s6lo compensan una pequenia parte de las perdidas sufridas por los paises
afectados.



Page 42
Una sefial alentadora es que, de la totalidad de los problemas del medio ambiente, los riesgos
naturales presentan la situaci6n mas manejable, pues si se cuenta con los recursos humanos,
tecnol6gicos y materiales pueden ser identificados r6pidamente, se dispone de medidas de
mitigad6n y los beneficios al reducir la vulnerabilidad pueden, en gran parte, ser mayores que los
costos. MWs aun, la experiencia demuestra que el impacto de los eventos naturales puede ser
reducido. Por ejemplo, en el caso de huracanes el mejoramiento de los sistemas de prevencl6n y
evacuaci6n ha reducido extraordinariamente el numero de muertes causadas. La combinaci6n de
medidas estructurales y no estructurales de mitigaci6n ha demostrado que reduce tambien los
efectos de los terremotos, derrumbes, inundaciones y sequias.
En el pasado, los gobiernos de paises de menor desarrollo relativo, al igual que los organismos
internacionales de financiamiento, habian actuado timidamente al momento de tomar acdones
para la reducci6n de vulnerabilidad o de solicitar u otorgar financiamiento para ellas. Hoy en dfa,
la situaci6n ha cambiado. Los organismos de financiamiento para el desarrollo estan dispuestos a
financiar dichas acciones y la mayoria de las agencias de cooperaci6n para el desarrollo tienen en
sus agendas la prestaci6n de asistenda en estos aspectos. Sin embargo, a pesar de la eficada
de las medidas de mitigaci6n en funci6n del costo, alrededor del 90 por ciento de los fondos
internacionales destinados al manejo de amenazas naturales en Amnerica Latina, estan destinados
todavia a actividades de preparaci6n, auxilio, rehabilitaci6n y reconstrucci6n de desastres,
quedando solamente un 10 por ciento destinado a actividades de prevenci6n.
Como sefialamos en la mencionada carta, 'la Republica Dominicana esta expuesta a ser
gravemente afectada por cualquier fenomeno o desastre, dada la debilidad de sus mecanismos
de prevencdn y mitgacion de desastres. Hay graves defrciencias en la metodologia yen los
instrumentos, tanto de prevencidn como de mitbyad6n, asi como, ante la inminencla de un
fen6meno, en la eficacia de la respuesta, por cuanto la preparacion, la detenminacidn de planes
de contlngencha y la puesta en marcha de los mecanismos de alerta y accdn coordinada y
efectiva adolecen de fallas considerables'~
Hemos tomado la iniciativa de formular el plan de acci6n que remitimos anexo a esta carta, el
cual sometemos a la consideraci6n del Banco Mundial y del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(BID), con la esperanza de que puedan obtenerse en breve plazo los recursos necesarios para su
ejecuci6n, a fin de que podamos iniciar el proceso de modernizaci6n de nuestras institudones en
el sector de las emergencias.
Esperamos conflados su oportuna respuesta, ya que tenemos el prop6sito, si contamos a tiempo
con los recursos, de desarrollar este plan de acci6n antes del 30 de junio de 1999.
Reciban nuestros saludos con sentimientos de alta consideraci6n y estima.
Ing. Juan Temistocles Months
Secretario Tecnico de ia Presidencia



Page 43
Annex 12
GODR Action Plan for Institutional Strenghtening of Disaster Management
PLAN DE ACCION PARA LA ADECUACION DE LAS INSTITUCIONES PARA EL
MANEJO DE LAS EMERGENCIAS EN CASO DE DESASTRES
NOVIEMBRE 1998-JUNIO 1999
COMPONENTE 1: COORDINACION INTERINSTITUCIONAL
PROPOSITOS         RESULTADOS           COSTO
ESPERADOS          (MILES
$s)
Realizaci6n de     Mejorar la       Consenso
reuniones,         capacidad del pals interinstitucional para la  *
coordinadas por el  para enfrentar    formulaci6n de
Secretariado       desastres        polfticas, planes y
Tecnico de la                        proyectos tendentes a
Presidencia, con las                elevar la capacidad
instituciones                       institucional y de la
vinculadas a las                    ciudadania en
emergencias en                       prevenci6n y atencion
caso de desastres                   de desastres
Organizacion de un  Actualizar y    200 representativos de
seminario          concientizar a los  instituciones           200
internacional en   responsables de   informados sobre
prevencion y       las instituciones   metodologia probada
mitigaci6n de      del sector, a fin de en prevenci6n,
desastres          elaborar planes    mitigacion y evaluaci6n
adecuados para   de danos
enfrentar
emergencias
Firma de convenios  Integrar en el  ConveEios con
con asociaciones   esfuerzo nacional  instituciones             *
profesionales y    de prevencion y   profesionales y ONGs
ONGs que pudieran  mitigacion de    firmados
ofrecer ayudas en   desastres a un
las tareas de      amplio n'ucleo de
evaluacion de danos asociaciones de
y analisis de      profesionales y
necesidades y      ONGs
acciones de corto,
mediano y largo
plazo



Page 44
Fortalecimiento de   Impulsar la    Comisi6n Nacional para
los mecanismos     organizacion de   el Plan Nacional de      150
operativos y de    un sistema       Emergencia
coordinacion de la  nacional de     debidamente
Comisi6n Nacional   prevenci6n y    fortalecida y en
para el Plan      atencion de       disposici6n de trazar
Nacional de        desastres        polftica, planes,
Emergencia, para                    sistemas y
trazar la politica, los             procedecimientos
planes, sistemas y
procedecimientos a
ser seguidos en
caso de desastres
Programaci6n y     Ejecutar, con fines Instituciones del sector
ejecuci6n (antes de  de ganar       debidamente               600
la temporada       experiencia,     coordinadas y
cicl6nica de 1999)   planes simulados, preparadas para
de preparativos y    para adquirir la   enfrentar los desastres
simulacros, para    destreza que
probar y fortalecer  permita la toma
los mecanismos     de decisiones
operativos y de    adecuadas en
coordinaci6n       casos de
contingencias
950
SUBTOTAL___
* No se han incluido los costos, porque los mismos ya tienen definida su fuente de financiamiento.
COMPONENTE 2: PLANIFICACION
PROPOSITOS          RESULTADOS    COSTO
ESPERADOS       (MILES
US$)
Elaboraci6n de   Definir la poiftica y las  Carta de poiftica
carta de politica    prioridades del Gobiemo   definiendo el   *
del sector dirigida  en materia de prevencion  compromiso del
al Banco Mundial y y mitigacion de desastres  Gobierno
al BID                                    Dominicano
elaborada



Page 45
Formulacion de    Definir en el corto plazo   Plan de acci6n
plan de accion   las principales acciones a  integrado y       *
para la adecuacion tomar por el Gobierno  particpativo
de las instituciones para fortalecer la   elaborado por el
para el manejo de  capacidad institucional    conjunto de las
las emergencias en para el manejo de las  instituciones del
caso de desastres  emergencias            sector   _
Formulacion de un  Identificar prioridades y   Perfil de
perfil de proyecto  cuantificar el monto de los proyecto a ser  *
de fortalecimiento  recursos requeridos para  financiado por
de la capacidad    emprender acciones y    organismos
institucional para  realizar inversiones, para  internacionales
enfrentar desastres fortalecer las instituciones elaborado
Ilamadas a enfrentar
emergencias
Formulaci6n de un  Identificar prioridades y   Perfil de
perfil de proyecto  cuantificar el monto de los proyecto a ser  *
de prevenci6n y    recursos requeridos para  financiado por
mitigaci6n en    emprender acciones y    organismos
obras de riego    realizar inversiones en    internacionales
infraestructura en obras   elaborado
de riego necesarias para
prevenir y mitigar
desastres
Elaboraci6n de    Diseniar la infraestructura  Documentos
documentos de    en obras de riego        para licitaciones    *
licitaci6n e inicio   necesarias para prevenir y elaborados y
de estudios y     mitigar desastres       estudios y
disenios relativos a                      disefios iniciados
la prevencion y
mitigaci6n en
obras de riego
Levantamiento de  Identificar y cuantificar los Inventario
un inventario de   recursos humanos y     realizado antes     200
los recursos     tecnicos en las          de la temporada
humanos y        instituciones            ciclonica de 1999
tecnicos existentes gubernamentales y en el
para enfrentar    sector privado que puedan
emergencias      ser usados con fines de
respuesta ante una
I posible emergencia



Page 46
Actualizaci6n del   Programar deotalladamente Plan de
plan de          las acciones a realizar en  emergencia para  100
emergencia para la el transcurso de la   la temporada
temporada        temporada ciclonica de    ciclonica de 1999
cicl6nica de 1999 y 1999, con la participeci6n  actualizado y
aprobacion del    de las instituciones del    aprobado por el
mismo por el     sector                  conjunto de las
conjunto de las                          instituciones del
instituciones del                        sector
sector
_        _ - ~300-
SUBTOTAL            300
No se ban incluido los costos, porque los mismos ya tienen definids su fuente de financiamiento.
COMPONENTE 3: ADECUACION MARCO LEGAL
PROPOSITOS         RESULTADOS           COSTO
ESPERADOS           (MILES
Estudio para la   Determinar la    Disposiciones legales
adecuaci6n del    estructura legal  (leyes, decretos y        50
marco legal       adecuada para   reglamentos) emitidas
una operatividad para adecuar el marco
eficiente       legal
50
SUBTOTAL                   so
COMPONENTE 4: CAPACITACION DEL SECTOR
PROPOSITOS         RESULTADOS           COSTO
ESPERADOS           (MILES
US$)
Firma de convenios  Aprovechar Ia    Convenios firmados con
con universidades  capacidad      dos o mas universidades      *
para la           intelectual y   para el desarrollo de los
implementacion de  material       programas de
un programa de    existente en las  capacitacion en
capacitaci6n del   universidades    administracion de
sector en          para capacitar a  desastres
administraci6n de   las instituciones
desastres y en    del sector en
disciplinas       administraci6n
relacionadas con el  de desastres
tema                              I                      I _



Page 47
Elaboraci6n de: a) el Capacitar en  Programa de formaci6n
programa de        administracion   de docentes y programa      50
formacion de       de desastres a   de capacitacion en
docentes para la    docentes,      administracion de
capacitaci6n del   personal que    desastres formulados
sector; b) el      incide en el
programa de        sector y otros
capacitaci6n en    interesados, que
administracion de    a su vez actuien
desastres          como agentes
propiamente dicho   multiplicadores
Formaci6n de       Crear un nucleo  50 profesores en
docentes para la    basico de       administracion de           200
capacitacion del    instructores que  desastres formados
sector en          permita
administraci6n de   transmitir en
desastres y en     cascada a grupos
disciplinas        mas amplios los
relacionadas con el  conocimientos
tema               relacionados con
la
administraci6n
de desastres
Entrenamiento      Capacitar al     800 personas entrenadas
intensivo      del personal de las   para enfrentar             550
personal en servicio instituciones del emergenclas en general
y de voluntarios de sector, a fin de   y, especificamente, la
las instituciones del incrementar la  temporada ciclonica de
sector, en desastres eficacia de su    1999
en    general   y, acci6n
especificamente,
para la temporada
cicl6nica de 1999
800
SUBTOTAL
* No se han incluido los costos, porque los mismos ya tienen definida su fuente de financiamiento.



Page 48
COMPONENTE 5: EDUCACION CIUDADANA
PROPOSITOS       RESULTADOS         COSTO
ESPERADOS         (MILES
Firma de convenios    Incorporar los    Convenios con las
con las asociaciones de medios de    asociaciones de          *
emisoras de radio y    comunicaci6n al  emisoras de radio y
canales de televisi6n,  esfuerzo nacional canales de televisi6n
para actuaci6n      en prevenci6n y   firmados
coordinada con los    mitigacion de
organismos que tienen desastres
a su cargo la
orientaci6n de la
ciudadanfa en caso de
desastres __
Diseno, programaci6n  Despertar la   Mensajes para
y desarrollo de la  conciencia y     provocar una            200
etapa inicial de una    elevar el nivel de  respuesta adecuada
campana de educaci6n informacion de la  ante un llamado de
ciudadana (por radio y poblaci6n, en  alerta captados y
televisi6n y por medio  especial en las    comprendidos por el
de charlas en escuelas, zonas de mayor   50% de la poblaci6n
oficinas publicas,  peligro potencial,  adulta de las areas
ONGs), orientada    a fin de que     que se definan como
especialmente a     respondan        de alto riesgo y por
interpretar una alerta y adecuadamente a el 25% de la
actuar en consecuencia la prevenci6n y a  poblaci6n adulta en
la alerta       las demas areas
200
SUBTOTAL          I
* No se han incluido los costos, porque los mismos ya tienen definida su fuente de financiamiento.



Page 49
COMPONENTE 6: FORTALECIMIENTO ORGANIZACIONAL
PROPOSITO        RESULTADOS          COSTO
S           ESPERADOS          (MILES
US$
Adecuaci6n de la        Dotar a las    Instituciones con
estructura operativa e    instituciones   estructura operativa  300
incorporacion de personal de personal   fortalecida y con
especializado en la    capacitado, a  personal especializado
Oficina Nacional de la    fin de que  a cargo de los
Defensa Civil, la Oficina   realicen un    aspectos crfticos
Nacional de Meteorologia trabajo eficaz  relacionados con
y el Instituto Nacional de  antes, durante desastres
Recursos Hidraulicos   y despues de
(INDRHI), este uiltimo en  las
el area de prevenci6n y   emergencias
mitigaci6n
Fortalecimiento de las    Dotar al sector 30 comites de
medidas de prevenci6n y  salud de las   emergencia            300
mitigacion en el sector    herramientas  provinciales formados
salud, asi como de la    organizativas  y programa de
capacidad de atencion a  y materiales   capacitaci6n y
emergencias y socorro de necesarias    formaci6n en salud
victimas (incluyendo   para dar      ejecutado, en las
planes hospitalarios de    eficaz    areas de asistencia
desastres) y organizaci6n  respuesta a   comunitaria,
de comites de          las           prehospitalaria e
emergencia provinciales y contingencias  intrahospitalaria
municipales              _                   _
600
SUBTOTAL_____



Page 50
COMPONENTE 7: EQUIPAMIENTO
PROPOSITOS        RESULTADOS         COSTO
ESPERADOS         (MILES
US$j)
Dotacion de equipos,  Elevar la      Instituciones
programas de        capacidad         equipadas con         3,300
computadora, sistemas nacional tecnica y tecnologia y
especializados       operativa para el  elementos
(hidrometricos,      seguimiento de    prioritarios para la
sismol6gicos, de     eventos que      detecci6n de eventos
simulaci6n de        revistan potencial eventualmente
desastres, SIG, etc.) y  peligro para el    peligrosos y personal
adecuado             pais y para      debidamente
entrenamiento para su adoptar medidas  entrenado
uso, a Ia Oficina    oportunas de
Nacional de la Defensa prevencion y
Civil, Oficina Nacional  mitigaci6n
de Meteorologia,
Instituto Sismol6gico,
Instituto Nacional de
Recursos Hidraulicos
(INDRHI), Instituto
Cartografico Militar
Establecimiento y    Dotar a las      Centro de
equipamiento de un   instituciones del   operaciones de      600
centro de operaciones  sector de un   emergencia
de emergencia que    centro           establecido y
permita la coordinaci6n especializado que  equipado
y la actuaci6n conjunta viabilice la
de las instituciones del operaci6n
sector               coordinada y
centralizada en
situaciones de
emergencia



Page 51
Dotaci6n de equipos   Mejorar y agilizar Instituciones
de emergencia y    la capacidad de   equipadas con los  2,200
socorro a la Secretanra respuesta para   elementos
de Estado de Salud    socorrer a   prioritarios para
Pu'blica y Asistencia   victimas de  emergencia y
Social, Secretaria de   desastres  socorro
Estado de las Fuerzas
Armadas, Policia
Nacional y cuerpos de
bomberos
6,100
SUBTOTAL
RESUMEN DE COSTOS
COMPONENTE                                       MONTO (MILES
___________________________________________          US$)
COORDINACION INTERINSTITUCIONAL                        950
PLANIFICACION                                          300
ADECUACION MARCO LEGAL                                  50
CAPACITACION DEL SECTOR                                800
EDUCACION CIUDADANA                                    200
FORTALECIMIENTO ORGANIZACIONAL                         600
EQUIPAMIENTO                                          6,100
TOTAL GENERAL        9,000



Page 52
PLAN DE ACCION PARA LA ADECUACION DE LAS INSTITUCIONES PARA EL
MANEJO DE LAS EMERGENCIAS EN CASO DE DESASTRES
NOVIEMBRE 1998-JUNIO 1999
CRONOGRAMA
COMPONENTE 1: COORDINACION INTERINSTITUCIONAL
ACTIVIDADES           NO   DIC  ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  JUN
V   98   99   99   R   99   Y   99
98                   99         99
Realizaci6n de reuniones,
coordinadas por el
Secretariado T6cnico de la
Presidencia, con las
instituciones vinculadas a las
emergencias en caso de
desastres                                                     _     _
Organizaci6n de un seminario
internacional en prevencion y
mitigaci6n de desastres
Firma  de   convenios  con
instituciones profesionales y
ONGs que pudieran ofrecer
ayudas en las tareas de
evaluaci6n de danos y analisis
de necesidades y acciones de
corto, mediano y largo plazo
Fortalecimiento    de    los
mecanismos operativos y de
coordinaci6n de la Comisi6n
Nacional para el Plan Nacional
de Emergencia, para trazar la
poliftica, los planes, sistemas y
procedecimientos    a    ser
seguidos en caso de desastres
Programacion   y   ejecuci6n
(antes  de  la  temporada
cicl6nica  de  1999)     de
preparativos y simulacros, para
probar   y   fortalecer  los
mecanismos operativos y de
coordinacion                                            _



Page 53
COMPONENTE 2: PLANIFICACION
ACTIVIDADES          NO  DIC ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  IUN
V   98   99  99   R   99   Y   99
98                  99         99
Elaboradon de carta de politica
del sector dirigida al Banco
Mundial y al BID                 _
Formulad6n de plan de acci6n
para la adecuacion de las
instituciones para el manejo de
las emergendas en caso de
desastres
Formulaci6n de un perfil de
proyecto de fortalecimiento de
la capacidad institucional para
enfrentar desastres
Formulaci6n de un perfil de
proyecto de prevenci6n y
mitigaci6n en obras de riego
Elaboraci6n de documentos de
licitaci6n e inicio de estudios y
disenos   relativos   a   la
prevenci6n y mitigacion en
obras de riego
Levantamiento    de     un
inventario  de  los  recursos
humanos y tecnicos existentes
para enfrentar emergencias



Page 54
Actualizacion del plan de
emergencia para la temporada
cicl6nica de 1999 y aprobaci6n
del mismo por el conjunto de
las instituciones del sector                                    _
COMPONENTE 3: ADECUACION MARCO LEGAL
ACTIVIDADES          NO   DIC  ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  JUN
V   98   99   99   R   99   Y   99
98 .                 99        99
Estudio para la adecuaci6n del
marco legal                  _
COMPONENTE 4: CAPACITACION DEL SECTOR
ACTIVIDADES          NO   DIC ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  JUN
V   98   99   99   R   99   Y   99
98                   99        99
Firma  de  convenios  con
universidades     para  la
implementacion    de    un
programa de capacitaci6n del
sector en administracion de
desastres y en disciplinas
relacionadas con el tema     _



Page 55
Elaboracion de: a) el programa
de formaci6n de docentes para
la capacitacion del sector; b) el
programa de capacitaci6n en
administracion de desastres
propiamente dicho
Formaci6n de docentes para la
capacitacion del sector en
administraci6n de desastres y
en disciplinas relacionadas con
el tema
Entrenamiento  intensivo  del
personal en servicio y de
voluntarios de las instituciones
del sector, en desastres en
general y, especfficamente,
para la temporada cicl6nica de
1999                                                          __
COMPONENTE 5: EDUCACION CIUDADANA
ACTIVIDADES          NO   DIC ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  JUN
V   98   99   99   R   99   Y   99
98                   99        99
Firma de convenios con las
asociaciones de emisoras de
radio y canales de televisi6n,
para actuaci6n coordinada con
los organismos que tienen a su
cargo la orientacion de la
ciudadania  en   caso   de
desastres                                       _
Diseno,   programaci6n    y
desarrollo de la etapa inicial de
una campana de educaci6n
ciudadana  (por  radio   y
television y por medio de
charlas en escueias, oficinas
publicas,  ONGs),  orientada
especialmente a interpretar
una  alerta  y  actuar  en
consecuencia



Page 56
COMPONENTE 6: FORTALECIMIENTO ORGANIZACIONAL
ACTIVIDADES           NO   DIC  ENE FEB MA  ABR MA  JUN
V   98   99   99   R   99   Y   99
98                   99         99
Adecuacion de la estructura
operativa e incorporaci6n de
personal especializado en la
Oficina Nacional de la Defensa
Civil, la Oficina Nacional de
Meteorologfa y el Instituto
Nacional    de     Recursos
Hidraulicos (INDRHI), este
ultimo   en   el  area   de
prevenci6n y mitigaci6n                 _             .
Fortalecimiento de las medidas
de prevenci6n y mitigacion en
el sector salud, asi como de la
capacidad de atenci6n a
emergencias y socorro de
victimas (incluyendo planes
hospitalarios de desastres) y
organizaci6n de comites de
emergencia provinciales y
municipales



Page 57
COMPONENTE 7: EQUIPAMIENTO
ACTIVIDADES          NO   DIC  ENE FEB MA  ABR | MA  JUN
V   98    99    99   R    99    Y    99
98                   99        99
Dotacion    de     equipos,
programas de computadora,
sistemas      especializados
(hidrometricos,  sismologicos,
de simulaci6n de desastres,
SIG,  etc.)   y   adecuado
entrenamiento para su uso, a
la Oficina Nacional de la
Defensa Civil, Oficina Nacional
de   Meteorologia,  Instituto
Sismol6gico, Instituto Nacional
de   Recursos   Hidraulicos
(INDRHI),          Instituto
Cartografico Militar                               __
Establecimiento          y
equipamiento de un centro de
operaciones de emergencia
que permita la coordinacion y
la actuaci6n conjunta de las
instituciones del sector          ___                 _
Dotaci6n de equipos de
emergencia y socorro a la
Secretaria de Estado de Salud
Publica y Asistencia Social,
Secretaria de Estado de las
Fuerzas Armadas, Policia
Nacional y cuerpos de
bomberos                        _                          .



MAP SECTION



900                                         800                                          70oo                                          600
U  STATES OF AMERICA                                                                             DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                    '/HURRICANE GEORGES
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
9/30                                                                                                                                                  30.
-30-E +                                                          \.3
\>t   <S    ' X   9/28   <        \                                                                       TROPICAL DEPRESSION
---  >  X  iTROPICAL STORM
HURRICANE
-     Xo9~/27               9                _
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
G  U  L F                             \       /          9      io    o,        
O  F                            112ps0                                                                                      500                  1 000 KILOMERS
.. ;4 - rnrk*,nd        A  7 1 A  N  r I C
.. . . / (YjCtanzel ; z <A; , s.t . O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C  E   A- N. :
0-  ' -DOz NICAN                                                                    -
fm                                                 Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i in Islands
JAMAICA                                      o~~~~~~~~~~~er   U  n~d !UikI F-AnOi,11,1IK)
m  X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9/22`  leq ANIGAos  RBA
MEXICO<   *n  'rELf0?a                        10/2t                                                      GEORGES .''
1|2                 Y T                  .'9*10/28                                                                $L| KITTSnd  V                   em
GUATEMALA   7      0/0 10/29                                                                                                   DOMfr4IC2S
.   \      Xt                 r-t   ,               , ,    , \        ,     ,,                  ,                              Mortiniqrue1IRf95
. ~~~~~ vSs ~~~~~~HONDURASs, f, LA    R    I a,    Brf E    A    N                                             S    E A-5TLCAC
ON&URAS,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ~~~~~~ST,LUCIA~
R        L A4anosua   1,           -          i                                    Cu<,B10/24ARBADO5
NICARAGUA                                                                                            S,VNET0~ BRO
LM-ooq-                                                       A,vb. (NeR  C1050                    GRENAVINES/
-< |   os;A\*                    10/23                .- w0sw4S_  X  V   @GRENADA                                  N
PACIFIC  OCEAN                                                                                                                                         TRIIDAGDand
>wo  RICA                                                                                                                                      10t
this map was produced by the                             [
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                            \                4
Thklo,undorien,colors,denarninofiins                  AnN I                s    1s                                                                        Fl 
ra and anyother informaion shownon -
t ehismapdano imply,onthepareof                                   .,              .,f                      f                 V  E N  E Z U  E L A                ,
3 The Wodd Bank Group, any judgment                                     _f
-  on  the legol,latus of any territory, or                                                                      -
ony endorsement or accnptance of                                                        COLOMBI A                                                              GUYANA   '
a suck boundaries.         900                                          7o j0i                                                                                    600  SRINAM0_
06



