Report No. PID8112
Project Name                     Dominican Republic-Hurricane George (+)
Emergency Recovery Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       DOPE63201
Borrower                         Government of the Dominican Republic
Responsible Agencies             Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
and Central Bank
Ing. Eduardo Rodriguez
Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
Tel     1-809-695 8028
Fax     1-809-695 8432
Implementing Agencies            Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC); National Institute of Water Resources
(INDRHI); Electricity Corporation of Dominican
Republic (CDE); and various agencies dealing
with disaster management (Civil Defense, etc.)
Date of this PID                 September 2, 1999
Appraisal Date                   October 22, 1998
Board Date                       December 10, 1999
Background
1.      Hurricane Georges passed over the Dominican Republic on September
22, 1998, as a category III hurricane with winds reaching 130 miles per
hour. The hurricane entered through the southeast portion of the
country, and given its diameter, it affected at least 70 percent of the
national territory. The death toll was estimated at 235. The Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLA) estimated the
total direct costs caused by the disaster at US$1.3 billion (about 8
percent of GDP). The agriculture sector, the most important economic
sector, sustained the greatest damage. The destructive winds destroyed
housing, agricultural and industrial infrastructure, uprooted trees and
destroyed crops, mainly in the eastern part of the country. Heavy
rain, concentrated in the south and southwest areas, led to floods and
rivers overflowing with water and mud, which destroyed bridges, homes
and equipment and damaged roads and social and economic infrastructure.
Overall, important urban areas as well as critical agricultural zones
and tourist enclaves were badly damaged.
2.      The lack of national emergency management capability was clearly
manifested by the passage of the hurricane. The population was not
forewarned appropriately about the impending danger of the hurricane,
and the preparation measures taken were vastly insufficient. The
Government of the Dominican Republic acknowledged the serious



shortcomings in its emergency management capability, and has committed
itself to a program for restructuring and modernizing the institutions
responsible for disaster management
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.      The emergency operation directly supports three key goals of the
Bank's assistance strategy for the Dominican Republic: alleviating
poverty, enabling private sector development by easing critical
infrastructure constraints, and improving environmental management.
This emergency operation also provides a bridge between the latest CAS
and the upcoming 1999 CAS, by helping to strengthen the growing
consensus on the need for a systematic program of disaster prevention
and mitigation.
Project Development Objectives
4.      The project encompasses short and long-term objectives to help
restore the productive capacity to mitigate the negative impacts on
economic growth and employment caused by the Hurricane and to increase
the capacity of the country to prepare for and to prevent human and
physical losses in future disasters. Specifically, the project
objectives are (a) to help restore, or maintain, growth in key sectors
of the economy. (b) To support the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of key social and economic infrastructure damaged or destroyed by
Hurricane Georges. (c) To reinforce vulnerable infrastructure
facilities in order to reduce losses and interruption of critical
public services from future natural disasters. And (d) to strengthen
the country's institutional capacity to prepare for and respond to
future natural disasters.
Project Description
5.      Total project cost was estimated at US$125 million, of which the
World Bank is financing US$111 million. The project includes two main
components: Quick-disbursing component (about US$60 million) and
Reconstruction and Mitigation Component (about US$50 million). The
first component consists of quick disbursing funds to finance
critically needed imports for the recovery program, including food for
processing and/or for productive industries, medicine, housing
construction materials and chemical products.
6.      The Reconstruction and Mitigation Component includes the
following sub-components: (a) Roads/Bridges, which includes
reconstruction of 23 bridges and 8 highway sections; (b) Irrigation,
which includes the rehabilitation of the principal irrigation schemes
damaged by the hurricane, and the undertaking of both a series of
studies of the main river basins prone to flooding and flood prevention
works; (c) Electricity, which would support the rehabilitation and
upgrade of part of the 69 KV transmission system as well as the
rehabilitation of an 8 MW hydropower plant (Jimenoa power plant); (d)
Strengthening of emergency preparedness, response and disaster
prevention and mitigation (institutional strengthening), which would
support efforts of the government to restructure and modernize key
national institutions responsible for these areas. Some of the
-2 -



activities to be carried out under this component are, inter alia,
development of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map for the
country, adoption and effective enforcement of a national building
code, establishment of an effective national early warning system, and
strengthening of the capacity of local disaster committees.
Implementation Arrangements
7.      Project coordination, monitoring and implementation will be
centralized in the Project Coordination Committee under the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency (STP). A specialized project management
firm will support this Coordination Committee. The following agencies
will be responsible for the implementation of specific project
components and sub-components: Central Bank (quick-disbursing
component), Secretariat of Public Works and Communications, SEOPC
(roads and bridges); National Institute of Water Resources, INDRHI
(irrigation and flood prevention works); Electricity Corporation of
Dominican Republic, CDE (Electricity). The institutional strengthening
component for disaster management will be executed directly by STP.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
8.      In emergency projects, speed of response is critical which makes
rapid project preparation essential. The operation should be focused
and simple, and unburdened with conditionality. To permit rapid
implementation, project design should include accelerated
implementation and execution arrangements, and should be flexible to
respond to evolving emergency needs. On the institutional side, it is
probably better to strengthen existing agencies rather than creating
new ones. The operation should incorporate a plan for addressing long-
term national disaster management capability.
Project Sustainability
9.      For each of the infrastructure works financed under the
subproject, the respective sectoral ministry is expected to provide an
operations and maintenance (O&M) plan, including a commitment to
provide the necessary resources, before disbursements begin. An annual
review of O&M needs for each sub-component will be carried out at least
three months before the end of each fiscal year.
Environment
10.     The project has been rated Category "B."   The majority of
investments are for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, which is not expected to have a negative impact on the
environment. For any new major infrastructure works, however, detailed
design studies will include environmental impact analyses. The
prevention and mitigation work should have a positive effect on the
environment.
Social Considerations
11.     The project is expected to have a positive social impact, as a
result of the reconstruction of vital infrastructure such as roads,
-3 -



bridges, electricity transmission lines, and irrigation works. It will
also benefit the entire population by strengthening the national
capacity to prepare for and mitigate the impact of future disasters.
Contact Points:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone no.    (202) 458 5454
Fax no. (202) 522 1500
Eugene McCarthy
Task Manager
(202) 458-5190
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not be included in the final project.
- 4 -



Annex
Because of the nature of the project, the Borrower was not required to
prepare a separate EA report.
- 5 -



