                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 27214

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-44200)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$111.11 MILLION

                                               TO

                                 THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                            FOR A

                 HURRICANE GEORGES EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                           12/23/2003




Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure SMU
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Dominican Pesos (DOP)
                                        1 Peso = US$ 0.025
                                        US$ 1 = 40.20 Pesos



                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCP      Comision Coordinadora del Programa (Program Coordination Unit)
CDE      Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad (Dominican Electricity Corporation)
DGRS     Direccion General de Reglamentos y Sistemas (General Directorate of Regulations and
         Systems)
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ERL      Emergency Recovery Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HDM      Highway Development and Management Model
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
INDRHI   Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidricos (National Institute of Water Resources)
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
NPV      Net Present Value
ONAMET   Oficina Nacional de Metereologia (National Meteorological Office)
ONESVIE  Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion Sismica, Vulnerabilidad de
         Infraestructura y Edificaciones (National Office for Seismic and Vulnerability
         Assessment of Infrastructure and Buildings)
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
WMO      World Meteorological Organization
PAD      Project Appraissal Document
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMR      Sub-Programa de Prevencion, Mitigacion y Respuesta (Disaster Risk Management
         Subprogram)
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SEOPC    Secretaria de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones (Secretariat of Public Works and
         Communications)
STP      Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia (Technical Secretariat of the Presidency)



                              Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                   Country Manager/Director:       Caroline D. Anstey
                    Sector Manager/Director:       Danny Leipziger
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Jose M. Alonso-Biarge

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
           HURRICANE GEORGES EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                18
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                        20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                     34
Annex 9. Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) -- Hurricane Georges Emergency     45
Program

Project ID: P063201                                                  Project Name: DO Hurricane Georges Emergency
                                                                     Recovery
Team Leader: Jose Alonso-Biarge                                      TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DO Hurricane Georges Emergency Recovery                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-44200
   Country/Department: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (55%); Roads and highways
                            (20%); Irrigation and drainage (11%); Power (7%); Central
                            government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/30/1998                                     Effective: 03/11/1999                06/23/1999
     Appraisal: 12/03/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/10/1998                                      Closing: 01/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/SECRETARIA TECNICA
                                           DE LA PRESIDENCIA (STP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Danny M. Leipziger                             Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Jose Alonso-Biarge                             Eugene D. McCarthy
ICR Primary Author:             Enrique Pantoja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project was prepared in record time within an evolving emergency and reconstruction assistance
framework supported by various development partners. Taking into account other projects and initiatives,
project objectives were to: (a) help restore, or maintain, growth in key sectors of the economy; (b) support
the reconstruction and rehabilitation of key social and economic infrastructure; (c) reinforce vulnerable
infrastructure facilities in order to reduce losses and interruption of critical public services from future
natural disasters; and (d) strengthen the country's institutional capacity to prepare for and respond to future
natural disaster emergencies.

These objectives were highly relevant to the critical situation faced by the Dominican Republic in the
aftermath of Hurricane Georges. According to the Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ECLAC), due to this disaster, the country suffered US$1.3 billion in direct losses and
US$644.5 million in indirect losses, equivalent to approximately 12 percent of GDP in 1998. The disaster,
which killed almost 300 persons and injured 600 more, affected 70 percent of the Dominican Republic,
including the capital city, Santo Domingo, and other important urban centers as well as key tourist
destinations and agricultural areas.     Funds were urgently needed to finance imports to help restore
economic activity and to attend to immediate emergency reconstruction needs. Moreover, investment funds
were required to rehabilitate or reconstruct social and economic infrastructure while applying improved
standards to minimize losses in the future.

Importantly, the impact of the Hurricane underscored the country's weak disaster risk management
capacity, characterized by a low level of emergency preparedness and response and an almost complete
lack of disaster mitigation capability. Given the Dominican Republic's location and geography, building
this capacity at the local and national level was, and remains today despite the improvement brought by the
project, a key objective to ensure that future disasters will not hinder growth and poverty reduction efforts.
The relevance of this objective has been emphasized in the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
the 2001 Poverty Assessment.

However, as detailed below, while the original objectives were well focused and comprehensive they were
also too ambitious given institutional weaknesses, as well as the short project implementation period and
the fiduciary requirements applied to the project. Among the various project objectives, longer-term
institutional capacity strengthening was particularly challenging to achieve within the constraints of an
emergency operation and inconsistent with the guidelines of OD8-50 on emergency operations.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project development objectives were not changed during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

Components were designed keeping in mind project objectives and other development partners' efforts. The
main project considered was the Hurricane Georges Emergency Program, financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). The IDB-financed project and the Bank-financed project had similar objectives
and their components complemented each other, and as agreed between the Bank, IDB and the Government,
were implemented in parallel under a unified disaster reconstruction and mitigation program. In fact, both
projects were part of a similar post-disaster assistance strategy followed by the Bank and IDB that



                                                     - 2 -

consisted of reprogramming of investment funds from the existing country portfolio, as well as preparing
emergency loans to finance urgently-needed imports (Bank) and recurrent social expenditures (IDB),
infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction in sectors where each bank had a comparative advantage,
and disaster risk management capacity building (see Annex 9 for further details on the IDB-financed
project).

The project was accordingly structured into two major components and a small one to support project
implementation:

     a. Quick-disbursing Component to provide US$60 million to finance critically needed imports for the
         recovery program according to a positive list agreed with the Government. These imports included
         food for processing and/or for productive industries, medicine, housing construction materials, and
         chemical products. Retroactive financing was agreed for eligible imports purchased between the
         date of the disaster and the date of loan agreement signing.

     b. Reconstruction and Mitigation Component to provide US$49 million to support rehabilitation and
         reconstruction efforts in three sectors, namely, roads and bridges, irrigation, and electricity; and to
         help strengthen disaster risk management capacity, including disaster preparedness and response as
         well as disaster mitigation.

     c. Project Implementation Support to provide US$1 million to finance consultants such as the project
         co-management firm and independent auditors, equipment and other implementation-related costs.

The quick disbursing component was the responsibility of the Central Bank. The reconstruction and
mitigation component was under the purview of a Program Coordination Unit (Comisión Coordinadora
del Programa, or CCP in Spanish) in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (Secretaria Tecnica de la
Presidencia or STP). Since CCP was responsible for the whole disaster program, it also had overall
coordination and management responsibility of the IDB-financed project. A project co-management firm
was financed by the Bank and IDB to assist CCP in its duties.

Project sub-components were directly implemented by the concerned line ministry or agency: the roads and
bridges sub-component by the Secretariat of Public Works and Communications (Secretaria de Obras
Públicas y Comunicaciones or SEOPC), the irrigation sub-component by the National Institute of Water
Resources(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hídricos or INDRHI), the electricity sub-component by the
Dominican Electricity Corporation (Corporación Dominicana de Electricidad or CDE), and the
institutional strengthening sub-component by a special unit within the CCP. Only SEOPC did not require
the establishment of a new project implementation unit (PIU) because it used the PIU that was
implementing the Bank-financed National Highway Project.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised during the life of the project.           Nevertheless, the disaster risk
management sub-component evolved during implementation as it was not completely defined at the moment
of Board project approval. To this end, US$5.7 million were left unallocated, in addition to funds allocated
to INDRHI for several consultancies, equipment and works related to disaster risk management. During
appraisal, the Government submitted an indicative Action Plan to restructure and modernize the institutions
responsible for disaster management.          Subsequently, as agreed between the Bank, IDB, and the
Government, a participatory process involving concerned stakeholders was undertaken to finalize the
disaster risk management sub-program (Sub-Programa de Prevencion, Mitigacion y Respuesta, or PMR


                                                      - 3 -

in Spanish). This program, with a total estimated cost of US$11.4 million, was comprised of four
components, one of which, vulnerability reduction of critical facilities and infrastructure, was financed by
the Bank loan. The rest of the sub-program was implemented under the IDB-supported operation.

Once the sub-program was finalized, a new PIU was established in the CCP to manage it, after which
terms of reference to implement the activities under the Bank-financed component were prepared. The
whole process took almost one year and a half from the effectiveness date (almost two years after loan
signing), leaving little more than a year until the original closing date to implement the sub-program. The
closing date extensions granted by the Bank, which added about 17 months to the implementation period,
helped to complete most of the project activities. However, due to the short span of these extensions
(between 6 1/2 and 1 1/2 months) some of the activities under the Bank-financed component of the
sub-program had to be divided into phases, a few of which could not be completed before the end of the
project (see Section 4 for further details).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was marginally satisfactory. This was an emergency operation prepared in two months,
responding quickly and effectively to the Government's request for post-disaster assistance. As such, we
cannot expect the same level of preparation and readiness of a regular investment operation. In fact, to
assess the quality at entry of an emergency project, it is important to consider that it is prepared in the
aftermath of a devastating disaster that requires a timely and effective response. The latter demands an
speed of project preparation and processing that does not provide enough time to deal in depth with all
aspects of the project before it goes to the Board. Contrary to regular investment operations, there is
actually a substantial amount of project preparation that needs to take place after the approval of an
emergency operation.

The particular characteristics of emergency operations notwithstanding, there are some important aspects
of quality at entry that should be emphasized in the case of this particular project:

First, the number of project objectives and the period required to achieve some of these objectives did not
match well the short, three year implementation period allowed for an emergency operation. The objectives
that would have benefited from deeper analysis include the reinforcing of vulnerable infrastructure
facilities, and the strengthening of the country's institutional capacity to prepare for and respond to future
natural disaster emergencies. The need to build institutional capacity for disaster management had been
made evident by the disaster. However, an assessment of whether an emergency operation was the best
vehicle to achieve this objective, especially considering institutional capacity constraints in the country and,
in general, the problems faced by other emergency operations in the Bank, was not undertaken.

Second, project implementation arrangements were not completely responsive to the country's institutional
context, characterized by weak inter-institutional cooperation and implementation capacity. The project
was designed as a multi-sectoral operation requiring PIUs in four different agencies and arguably a central
coordination unit. Although three of the agencies had experience with Bank projects, each PIU had
different technical and implementation capacities and faced different bureaucratic procedures. In turn,
developing a consolidated financial management system across all agencies ­ a disbursement condition for
Components B and C of the project ­ became a complex, time-consuming task. This task was made even
more complex by the need to include both the Bank and IDB-financed activities under the same financial
management system.




                                                     - 4 -

Third, given the complexity of the project, it was considered necessary to create a new Program
Coordinating Unit (namely, the CCP). The latter was established under the Technical Secretariat of the
Presidency, adding one more agency to the list of agencies and/or line ministries involved in the project.
The CCP had to deal with the PIUs implementing the Bank and the IDB-financed projects. This proved to
be a difficult job, even with the help of the co-management firm.

The above factors hindered the streamlining of implementation arrangements. Such arrangements are
needed to ensure successful completion of three-year emergency projects, more so in Dominican Republic,
where disbursements have traditionally been slow. It should be noted that, although its processing is
streamlined, Bank fiduciary requirements related to procurement and financial management are the same
for an emergency recovery loan (ERL) as they are for investment loans. Meeting fiduciary requirements
(procurement, disbursement and financial management) particularly affected the start of project
implementation, demanding significant effort on the part of the Borrower and Bank teams. While this
situation was partially due to the fact that a good amount of project preparation was still needed after
Board approval, it also indicates that emergency projects should be supported by more flexible
requirements than usually applied to regular investment operations.

Finally, several studies and equipment related to disaster risk management were defined in the project
appraisal document (PAD) and legal agreement, although it had been decided that the final disaster
management sub-program would be defined in a participatory manner during implementation (see Section
3.4). This decision constrained the design of the sub-program and discouraged cooperation from INDRHI,
the agency which had already been allocated resources for disaster risk management at the start of the
project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall achievement of project objectives was satisfactory.            Due to factors explained in Section 5,
achievement of objectives required a project implementation period of almost four and a half years, or
about 18 months longer than the three-year period normally considered for ERLs. (The emergency
operation financed by IDB was also extended, which helped to maintain the synergies between the two
projects).

The objective of helping restore or maintain growth in key economic sectors was satisfactorily achieved.
While it is not easy to isolate the direct effects of the project on short-and medium-term economic recovery,
much more so retrospectively, evaluations in other countries show that timely foreign exchange support to
finance private sector imports in a disaster aftermath contributes greatly to economic recovery and/or
maintaining growth. Dominican Republic had a dynamic, rapidly growing economy when Hurricane
Georges hit. It had actually been among the world's fastest growing economies since 1992. While this
dynamism certainly helped the recovery, the project's contribution can be expected to have been highly
effective although relatively modest considering the total amount of foreign exchange provided and the
delay in project effectiveness. Overall, according to the 2001 Poverty Assessment Report, despite the
significant disaster losses, the country experienced a GDP growth of 7.3 percent in 1998. In 1999, GDP
growth was up to 8.3 percent, not only higher than the 1997 rate of 8.2 percent but also the highest growth
rate of the decade.




                                                        - 5 -

Achievement of the objective of supporting the reconstruction and rehabilitation of key social and
economic infrastructure was satisfactory. However, the immediate beneficial impact of the project in this
respect was diminished as most of the damaged infrastructure included under the project could not be
restored by the planned target dates. On the other hand, reconstruction and rehabilitation works were
carried out under close technical supervision, utilizing improved hazard-resistant design and construction
standards. Although no formal evaluation was undertaken, direct social and economic impact of rebuilding
roads and bridges and flood mitigation works is estimated to be relatively high. According to available
project data, flood mitigation works benefited over 2,500 people directly and helped to make over 15,000
hectares of key agricultural land safer. In the case of roads and bridges, the opportunity was taken to
upgrade some road segments instead of rebuilding them to their pre-existing width and quality, which
resulted in an improved road network and associated reduction in transport costs (see Annex 3).

Additional Bank assistance helped to enhance the achievement of the infrastructure reconstruction
objective: first, US$24.2 million ­ approximately 14 percent of the existing country portfolio at the time of
the disaster ­ was reprogrammed to provide immediate financing for emergency reconstruction and
equipment needs in education, health, irrigation, and roads and bridges sectors. Second, in the latter sector,
reconstruction works in 12 bridges were started before the emergency operation had been approved by
adding these works to ongoing contracts under the National Highway Project (Loan 4127-DO). The
financing of these bridges was compensated with resources from the emergency operation allocated for civil
works for a road and two bridges originally included under the National Highway Project (see Section 4.2
for more details).

Achievement of the objective of reinforcing vulnerable infrastructure to reduce losses from future
disasters was also satisfactory. The roads, bridges, irrigation infrastructure, and the transmission line and
the Power Plant included in the project were reconstructed to better standards, keeping into account natural
hazards such as high winds and earthquakes.

In addition to modest technical assistance, other project activities contributed to the achievement of this
objective, including the preparation of a new national building code, a review of civil work supervision
methods and practices, and a vulnerability assessment of dams and selected critical facilities such as
hospitals, fire stations and schools. These activities resulted in several well received outputs which were
being institutionalized by the end of the project. In particular, the National Office for Seismic and
Vulnerability Assessment of Infrastructure and Buildings (Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion Sismica,
Vulnerabilidad de Infraestructura y Edificaciones or ONESVIE) was established by a government decree
on July 5, 2003, and made operational by a bylaw on September 23, 2003. ONESVIE will be in charge of
reviewing and disseminating the final reports, and of implementing the recommendations given in the
reports in cooperation with the corresponding government entity. The new building code is expected to be
in effect by April 2004. To ensure enforcement of the building code, SEOPC was preparing a resolution to
make mandatory the submission to that institution of all building projects for prior review and approval.
To institutionalize improved civil works supervision practices, SEOPC reviewed the final guidelines
prepared under the project to make the document more stringent, and was planning to make its
implementation mandatory through a resolution. If carried out as planned, these measures will help to
increase project impact. On the other hand, a key issue that was not addressed by the project, which might
hinder project impact, is the need to strengthen the national capacity to ensure that the building code is
actually applied on the ground.

Finally, the objective of strengthening the country's institutional capacity for disaster risk management
was satisfactorily achieved, although marginally. This objective was the most challenging one, especially
considering the initially short project implementation period, the multitude of agencies involved, the


                                                    - 6 -

pervasive lack of inter-agency collaboration, the weak disaster risk management capacity of the country,
and the need to coordinate with other development partners to maximize project impact. On balance, the
project helped to increase knowledge of disaster vulnerability in the country while advancing the process to
improve local and national disaster risk management.

Achievement of this objective cannot be assessed without considering the larger framework of the
Sub-program for Disaster Risk Management, financed by both the Bank and the IDB. An important
contribution of the project was that the sub-program was prepared through a participatory process that, for
the first time, brought together all concerned stakeholders in the country. These included representatives of
government agencies, NGOs, academic institutions and private sector. The process involved a series of
workshops and seminars through which main institutional, technical and resource constraints were
identified using the logical framework methodology, and conclusions and recommendations translated into
the sub-program itself. Under the sub-program, progress was made in designing a National System for
Disaster Risk Management which identifies more clearly the roles and responsibilities of different agencies
and levels of government. These roles and responsibilities were made official through the Disaster Risk
Management Law (Ley de Gestión de Riesgo) approved by Congress in September 2002. The law also
mandates the establishment of a new, central coordinating unit for the system ­ the National Council for
Disaster Management or Consejo Nacional de Prevención, Mitigación y Respuesta ante Desastres. These
outcomes notwithstanding, making the national system fully operational and effective could not be
accomplished before the end of the Bank-financed project. Further progress in this respect may be
accomplished during the next months before the IDB-financed project also closes.

Two agencies were specifically targeted under the Bank-financed operation for building institutional
capacity for disaster risk management: the National Meteorological Office (ONAMET) and INDHRI,
which were expected to work together in establishing the national early warning system. In addition to
financing one of the components of the sub-program, the project financed equipment, technical assistance
and studies for these agencies (see details in Section 4.2). ONAMET and INDRHI were technologically
stronger at the end of the project. Their data-sharing arrangements were being put in effect, albeit slowly.
While ONAMET was receiving information from INDRHI, the opposite was not working satisfactorily.
This was partially due to the fact that ONAMET had been recently transferred from the Secretariat of
Agriculture to the Secretariat of Civil Aeronautics, which decided to revise the data-sharing arrangements
between the two institutions. Additionally, it should be noted that many of the flood control and watershed
management studies conducted under the project will not have any impact unless they are successfully
implemented by INDRHI; and that operation and maintenance (O&M) remains a major challenge for both
agencies.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The project had two major components: quick disbursement component, and reconstruction and mitigation
component. Main outputs delivered under these components are discussed below.

Quick-Disbursement Component. The US$60 million provided under this component was fully disbursed
shortly after the Loan became effective in June 1999. Over a third of this amount (US$22 million)
corresponded to retroactive financing, which helped to mitigate the long delay in project approval by
Congress. An experienced Bank consultant worked with the Central Bank to ensure eligibility of the
imported goods proposed for financing as per the positive list agreed during project preparation.




                                                     - 7 -

Reconstruction and Mitigation Component. Reconstruction and rehabilitation works under this component
focused on three sectors: roads and bridges, irrigation and electricity. Whereas the first one was closely
linked to the Bank-financed National Highway Project, the two last ones complemented sub-components
included in the IDB-financed emergency project.

The Roads and Bridges Sub-component was the largest one, corresponding to almost one quarter of the
total project costs and close to half of the funds allocated for civil works. As described below, this
sub-component was divided in three phases. Given its link with the on-going National Highway Project
(Loan 4127-DO), and revised rehabilitation needs, targets for and scope of this sub-component changed
throughout the life of the project. At the end of the project, 209 kilometers of roads and 17 bridges had
been reconstructed or rehabilitated (including a small amount to be completed with local financing).

Phase 1 included 12 bridges rebuilt with funds from the National Highways Project (US$4.5 million
specifically), which was under implementation when Hurricane Georges hit the country. This decision was
taken to accelerate reconstruction work. In turn, the financing of these bridges was "compensated" by
allocating resources from the emergency project (Loan 4420-DO) to a road (Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña
Maria, 18.5 km) and two bridges (Benito Moncion in Montecristi and Arasao) that had been originally
included under Loan 4127-DO; and by transferring US$818,100 from the 4420-DO account to the
4127-DO account at the end of the project. All the 12 bridges were finished well ahead of the emergency
loan closing date. However, Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña Maria was left paved with gravel due to the
lack of asphalt AC-30. Since this road has a low traffic volume, SEOPC has some time to apply the
asphalt pavement before the road suffers significant technical and economic consequences. In addition,
works at Benito Moncion bridge could not be completed before the end of the project since it suffered
delays related to problems with its foundation. The Borrower was planning to complete the bridge with
local funds.

Phase 2 initially included 3 bridges (Chacuey, Maguaca and La Placeta) with a total length of 220 meters.
Subsequently, four new bridges were added: Arasao and Montecristi (transferred from Loan 4127-DO),
the access bridge to the Jimenoa Power Plant (the Jimenoa bridge), and the Yabón bridge. Bridges Arasao,
Chacuey, Jimenoa, Maguaca and Yabon were finished by the end of the project. La Placeta bridge was not
finished due to the unsatisfactory performance of the contractor, which forced the SEOPC to cancel most
of the contract.

Phase 3 included five contracts covering several sections of partially or totally damaged roads with a total
final length of 209 km. These are: (i) Cruce Palo Alto-Cruce Tamayo y Barahona-Enriquillo (only for
three drainage works), (ii) Higuey-Nisibon-Miches, (iii) San Cristobal-Cruce Autopista Duarte y San
Cristobal-Cambita, (iv) Hato Mayor-Sabana de la Mar, and (v) Jarabacoa-Manabao.            The second and
fifth of these contracts were successfully completed by the closing date. The other three were about to be
completed at the end of the project, and the Borrower was planning to complete any remaining works with
local funds.

The Irrigation Sub-component, which was fully completed by the project closing date, focused on both
rehabilitation and flood prevention. Initial project targets were surpassed in the case of canals and river
flood protection: the target for reconstruction and rehabilitation of canals was 17.6 kilometers while the
final figure was 29.1 kilometers; and the target for river flood protection structures was 5.6 kilometers
while the final figure was 6.4 kilometers. All 11 dikes initially planned for reconstruction were also
successfully completed.




                                                    - 8 -

Under the Electricity Sub-component, rehabilitation of the Jimenoa Power Plant was completed under the
project. However, only the materials for the reconstruction of the 69 kv transmission line could be financed
by the loan due in part to initial implementation delays. In addition, faced by uncertainty regarding loan
closing date extensions and the extension periods, CDE had to agree to separate contracting of the
financing of materials from the installation works. The transmission line is being installed by CDE with its
own funds, and should be finished by January 2004.

Through the Disaster Risk Management Capacity Building Sub-component, INDHRI and ONAMET were
provided with key equipment to improve the national early warning system as well as hydro-meteorological
and seismic monitoring capacity. Specifically, INDHRI was provided with new telemetry and seismic
networks, as well as with new bathymetry and communications equipment. INDHRI, at the same time,
completed several key studies to improve flood hazard and watershed management in the country, including
flood control studies in the main river basins of the country. Moreover, INDHRI successfully implemented
a community-based program to monitor water quality (Programa de Cultura del Agua). ONAMET
rehabilitated its manual meteorological stations, installed nine new automatic stations and one with sensors,
and also acquired new communications equipment. ONAMET also received technical assistance from the
World Meteorological Organization (WMO) to improve data monitoring and analysis, and to identify the
equipment needed and prepare technical specifications.

Under this sub-component, several activities included in the Sub-program for Disaster Risk Management
were also completed. As noted earlier, the Bank financed one of the four components of this sub-program.
This component focused on vulnerability reduction of infrastructure and critical facilities, while the three
remaining components financed by the IDB focused on building awareness and capacity among the
population; on improving spatial / regional planning and environmental and natural resources management;
and on establishing the national system for disaster risk management. More specifically, the component
under the project included the preparation and dissemination of the new national building code and of a
manual for improved supervision of civil works, in addition to vulnerability assessments of dams and
critical infrastructure such as hospitals, schools, and fire stations. At the end of the project, the Building
Code had been finalized and the unit in SEOPC in charge of making it operational ­ Dirección General de
Reglamentos y Sistemas, or DGRS in Spanish ­ had been strengthened by providing it with new equipment
and software. The vulnerability assessments and additional watershed management studies had also been
completed. Further dissemination and mainstreaming of the code and the supervision manual is,
nevertheless, needed.

A relevant additional output was the completion of the engineering design to improve drainage and flood
hazard management in the Guajimía watershed, considered a high priority by the President of the country
given the expected high beneficial social impact of the project. It is estimated that approximately 6 percent
of Santo Domingo's population lives in hazardous conditions along the 18 kilometers of the Cañada
Guajimía, which is affected by floods not only caused by Hurricanes, but also by frequent albeit less
intense tropical storms.    A preliminary environmental and social impact assessment of the proposed
engineering design was also carried out, which will help the Government seek financing for the project from
development partners.      The Government has recently approached several donors to obtain funds to
implement the project in phases. Canada has expressed interest in financing the first phase.

The project also contributed positively to environmental management, although the majority of the
complementary environmental management and regional planning activities were included in the
IDB-financed project. The majority of investments under the project were for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and did not have significant impact on the environment. The
rehabilitation works in the irrigation sub-component, in particular, helped to improve conditions of the


                                                      - 9 -

irrigation system as a whole in an environmentally friendly manner. In fact, some of the irrigation and flood
mitigation works financed by the project were subsequently integrated under a major environmental
management project developed for the watershed of the Yaque del Norte River, being implemented by
INDRHI and the Ministry of Environment. The Programa de Cultura del Agua helped to improve water
quality with the involvement of communities. Finally, the watershed management studies, if implemented,
will likely have a positive impact on the rural environment.

A list of the main studies financed under the project is provided in Annex 7.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Since the project was an emergency loan, prior economic analysis was not required to justify the
infrastructure to be reconstructed. However, in Annex 3, this type of analysis is presented for investments
under the road sub-component.

In regular investment operations the roads to be financed are selected during the preparation stage
following agreed economic criteria. In contrast, the roads included under the emergency project and the
scope of works were selected and defined during project implementation based on the extent of damage
caused by Hurricane Georges and the available resources. As such, the PAD ex-ante economic evaluation
lists standard economic returns for typical roads and road works. The scope of works for some roads
changed during project implementation, evolving from surface distress repairs to full rehabilitation and
reconstruction given availability of resources and additional technical needs of each road. Accordingly, the
ex-post economic evaluation was done to assess if these investments were also justified from an economic
perspective.

The ex-post economic evaluation covered the rehabilitation and reconstruction works for roads included in
the project (about 209 km). It was carried out using the Highway Development and Management Model
(HDM-4), which is the new version of HDM-III. The HDM-4 Model was first used to simulate an ex­ante
economic evaluation for each road project, which was then compared with an ex-post evaluation. An
evaluation period of 20 years and a discount rate of 12 percent were assumed for both evaluations, while
all costs are expressed in 2002 US Dollars.

The results show that, with the exception of the Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña Maria section, all projects
are economically justified under the ex-ante or ex-post scenarios, with rates of return higher than 12
percent. Due to high actual costs, the Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña Maria section has an ex-post
marginal economic rate of return of 11 percent. The resulting benefits for each road project stem from
reasonable investment costs and the damaged road condition found before the project due to Hurricane
Georges. For the eight projects analyzed, the overall ex-post IRR is 29.9 percent (against 21 percent
estimated in the PAD), which corresponds to a total NPV of US$15.4 million.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project had a modest institutional development impact. At the end of the project, progress has been
made in designing the National System for Disaster Risk Management with the help of international
consultants financed by the IDB project; and in translating this design into a national law and taking initial



                                                     - 10 -

steps to make the system operational. After the earthquake that hit the area of Puerto Plata on September
23, 2003, causing some losses of human lives and significant physical damage, the system's response was
encouraging.

Despite this progress, the country still has a way to go before its disaster risk management capacity reaches
an optimum level.     Further improvement in inter-agency coordination is still needed, while technical
capacity in various areas and focus on disaster mitigation (i.e., ex-ante measures and activities) need
further strengthening. Moreover, the future evolution of institutional capacity at the local and national
levels remains uncertain.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The defeat of the governing party in the May 1998 congressional elections had redirected all parties'
attention towards short-term political considerations aimed at ensuring victory in the 2000 presidential
elections. When the Hurricane hit, Government-Congress relations were not favorable. It was expected, on
the other hand, that the need to respond rapidly to the national emergency would bring together the
governing and opposition parties. The political impasse was not easily overcome, and congressional
approval of the project was delayed until May 11, 1999 ­ five months after Bank's approval. As a result,
loan effectiveness date slipped from March to June. Due to a combination of lack of pro-activity and the
complexity of the task, the disbursement condition of establishing the financial management system was
only met in February 2000, when the presidential election was approaching. The change of government
that resulted from the May 2000 elections slowed down project implementation, especially during the
August-October transition period.

The above delays in effect reduced the original project implementation period to 18 months. The lost
months were subsequently restored through four project extensions. Considering the above factors, the
Bank granted a first extension of the Loan closing date from January 31, 2002 to July 1, 2002. To ensure
achievement of project objectives, three more extensions were subsequently given, to January 15, 2003,
May 15, 2003, and June 30, 2003, respectively. The final extension until June 30, 2003, was agreed
primarily to allow the completion of the roads and bridges sub-component, which was affected by a
suspension of supplies of asphalt products during the January-April 2003 crisis in Venezuela that
paralyzed major road works (the suspension extended beyond April 2003 due to political problems that
developed between the two countries). This problem added to the delay in counterpart funds that this
sub-component had been experiencing throughout the life of the project (see Section 5.3).

The institutional strengthening sub-component was one of the most affected by the initial delays. A
pre-requisite for the sub-program was a diagnostic of national disaster management capacity involving all
concerned agencies, for which there was not enough time during the short project preparation period. The
participatory process, led by IDB, to define the sub-program and its activities could not be started until
July 1999, and the program itself would not be finalized until December 1999. As a result, neither the
Bank nor IDB could decide on the activities of the sub-program to be financed under their respective
emergency projects until January 2000; and the PIU needed to oversee the sub-program could not be
established until after this date. Finally, terms of reference for the consultancies, technical specifications
for equipment, and other required procurement documents, could not be prepared without knowing both the
type of activities comprising the sub-program and which of the banks was financing them; and without
having a fully functional PIU.



                                                     - 11 -

Implementation of the electricity sub-component experienced difficulties in achieving full speed since CDE
was under restructuring when the project began. As a result, organizing the PIU took time and its staff was
constantly changed.      In addition, the Government had decided to start the bidding process for the
rehabilitation of Jimenoa Power Plant on its own without following Bank procedures. Consequently, a
decision had been made to take this activity off the project. After several months had been lost, CDE
realized that it did not have enough funds to complete the plant's rehabilitation and stopped the process.
After the Bank agreed again to include the power plant under the project, more time was lost as the first bid
for the plant's rehabilitation works had to be declared unresponsive.

Starting in 2001, project implementation has also been affected by the deteriorating economic and fiscal
outlook of the country. This year, economic growth has slowed down significantly while the fiscal situation
has become more difficult. At the same time, the Dominican peso has lost more than half of its value
vis-a-vis the dollar. Recently, a banking crisis has not only strained the government's treasury but also
created inflationary pressures. Moreover, the country has also experienced some political unrest.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While awaiting congressional approval of the project, the Government was not pro-active enough in
ensuring that the CCP would be ready to start implementation at an accelerated pace and in finding staff
with sufficient experience in Bank projects. CCP was not given adequate office space until January 2000,
six months after project effectiveness. Moreover, the co-management firm hired to help the CCP was not
utilized effectively during the critical project start up time because no clear delineation of duties and
responsibilities had been established between CCP and the firm. Under these circumstances, important
initial tasks such as development of the consolidated financial management system could not advance at the
necessary speed. In fact, to avoid a near paralysis of the project, an exception was given by the Bank and
the disbursement condition of having the system operational was considered fulfilled on the basis of an
agreed Action Plan. SEOPC was the only implementing agency ready to start, given that it had good
experience with Bank-financed projects, and its financial management system was used as a basis to
develop the overall system adopted for the project.

The CCP was never sufficiently empowered by the Government to facilitate project implementation across
the various concerned agencies. It did not help that the head of CCP ­ the Executive Secretary ­ was
changed three times in the first two years of the project, and that the co-management firm also suffered a
similar number of changes in team leadership.

Importantly, despite allocations in the annual budget, and the priority that should have been given to an
emergency operation, the project suffered from an almost continuous lack of counterpart funding. As the
deficit in counterpart funding accumulated, the problem became increasingly difficult, contributing to
project implementation delays.        As this problem became critical, the Bank conditioned further
disbursements and a new extension of the closing date to clearing counterpart arrears to match loan
disbursements according to the pari-passu established in the Loan Agreement. For reasons explained
below (Section 5.3), the roads and bridges sub-component under SEOPC was the most affected by the lack
of counterpart funds. In the case of this sub-component, delays due to lack of these funds were significant
and resulted in increased costs of some of the civil works. In December 2002 the counterpart arrears were
substantially reduced and the Bank resumed disbursements and granted the third project extension.




                                                     - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The CCP did not attempt to mitigate the institutional constraints resulting from weak official support. It
took time to define its role and responsibilities, and was slow in adapting to the implementation pace of
agencies such as SEOPC, which was carrying out reconstruction works and preparing bid documents
before the emergency project had effectively started. As a result, the CCP did not manage to keep all
agencies working at a consistent pace and to build a cooperative working environment among them.
Initially, there were serious logistical problems regarding the flow of documents and requests for no
objections between the CCP, PIUs and the Bank. Furthermore, getting all PIUs up to speed with Bank
procedures and the financial management system took longer than expected. Although these issues were
resolved, for the most part agencies maintained a compartmentalized view of project implementation, and
each agency's own interest tended to prevail over the general objectives of the project.

The CCP faced its most difficult challenge in SEOPC, one of the strongest implementing agencies. SEOPC
found the role of CCP difficult to understand, given that, as mentioned above, SEOPC had good
implementation experience while CCP was seemingly weak, particularly in the initial phase of the project;
the roads and bridges sub-component under SEOPC's responsibility was of a considerable size and
intermingled with the National Highway Project being implemented by SEOPC on its own; and that
SEOPC was in a way implementing its sub-component when CCP was actually organized. For the other
agencies, starting up implementation was a slower process due, to a great extent, to the more complicated
bureaucratic set up under which their PIUs had to operate (not to mention that it took these agencies some
time to organize their own PIUs). SEOPC, in contrast, had an experienced PIU, with more relative
freedom to take decisions, process project documents and carry out bid evaluations.            Given these
circumstances, the CCP and rest of PIUs tended to perceive SEOPC as standing on its own regarding
project implementation.

The above situation exacerbated the problem of lack of counterpart funding. The general tendency was to
try to solve this matter individually, and more specifically to leave SEOPC on its own (given the size of its
sub-component, SEOPC needed substantial counterpart funds). As a result, while at times one of the other
agencies was given more counterpart funds than what it needed at the moment, the funds given to SEOCP
were often insufficient, causing it to fall behind in payments to contractors for civil works.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$125.20 million, including physical and price
contingencies (but excluding the Bank's front-end fee of US$1,111,000). Of this total, US$60 million
would finance needed imports (Component A); and US$65.20 million would finance the costs of
reconstruction / rehabilitation works, institutional capacity building for disaster management, and project
implementation support (Components B and C). The Bank was expected to finance 100 percent of
Component A and about 76.7 percent (US$50 million) of Components B and C.

The final total project cost is US$126.66 million, out of which components B and C account for US$66.66
million.    Bank financing totals US$110,848,785.11, because a total of US$262,214.89 remained
undisbursed at the end of the project. This amount corresponds to an inappropriately advanced payment by
the Borrower to a supplier for the acquisition of equipment that finally was not delivered, due to financial
problems of the supplier.      As a result, the Bank requested that the amount be reimbursed to the Project
account.    The Borrower provided evidence to the Bank that it had issued instructions to the appropriate



                                                      - 13 -

Bank for the refund to be made. At the time this ICR was sent to the print shop, receipt of the payment to
the Project Account could not yet be verified. Once the payment is received the amount will be canceled.

As detailed below, several sub-components experienced substantial cost adjustments.

The final cost of the roads and bridges sub-component is US$37.17 million, US$8.5 million or 29.5
percent over the initial estimate without contingencies. Cost adjustments under this sub-component were
due to the decision to upgrade some of the roads, rather than reconstructing them to their original width,
and unforeseen site conditions in critical road segments.           Specifically, some road work included
realignment, widening and pavement improvement beyond what was initially planned. A road segment in
particular, namely Hato Mayor-Sabana de la Mar, required re-design and additional work to deal with
unforeseen geophysical and geotechnical failures. Moreover, several bridges were made wider and higher.
Finally, delays caused by problems with payments to contractors, which resulted from lack of counterpart
funds, increased the costs of civil works.

In the case of the irrigation sub-component, the final cost is US$11.78 million, US$1.6 million or 12.1
percent lower than the initial estimate, without contingencies, despite that the initial targets were surpassed
(see Section 4.2). The main reasons for this decrease in cost are the lower prices of civil works and the
transfer of the acquisition of some prevention related equipment requiring training of personnel to the
institutional building sub-component.

The final cost of the electricity sub-component is US$7.69 million, US$0.61 million or 7.3 percent below
the initial estimate without contingencies, due to the decision to take the financing of the installation of the
transmission line out of the project.

The final cost of the disaster risk management capacity building sub-component is US$7.85 million,
about US$1 million or 13.8 percent higher than initially estimated, due to the fact explained above
concerning the irrigation sub-component and the inclusion of the study of the Cañada Guajimía.

Finally, the cost of project implementation support increased as a result of the additional 17 months taken
to complete the project.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of project benefits, as a whole, is likely, although in this type of operations the concept of
sustainability is difficult to apply and evaluate. Inadequate maintenance of infrastructure is a major factor
determining damages and losses at the moment of a disaster. However, scarcity of resources, among other
things, make it difficult for the Government, particularly in the current difficult economic and political
environment, to guarantee continued budgetary or institutional support to maintain the reconstructed or
rehabilitated infrastructure. In the case of SEOPC, for example, the problem lies in the lack of both a
sustainable financing mechanism for road maintenance and of an effective unit for road maintenance
planning and management. The precedent under the project is not good: the agreement made during project
preparation of having each implementing agency made a provision in their annual budgets for operations
and maintenance (O&M) has not always been fulfilled. Simultaneously, the poor past record of some of
the beneficiary agencies regarding maintenance of equipment and networks spread throughout the country
does not bode well for the new equipment financed by the project. INDHRI in particular let its previous



                                                     - 14 -

telemetry network broke down to a great extent because of lack of maintenance. Therefore, from the strict
point of view of infrastructure maintenance, we could rate sustainability as unlikely.

However, another important aspect of sustainability is the institutional strengthening to address emergency
situations. A major disaster provides a window of opportunity to make changes in the compartmentalized
behavior of public sector agencies, and to push ahead to establish an effective disaster risk management
system based on the existing organizational strengths. The project has helped to take some steps towards
developing institutional capacity, providing the country with a long term organizational framework.
(Although if the National System is not made fully operational and its Coordination Unit organized and
funded, the momentum gained through the Bank and IDB projects, and the efforts of other development
partners, might be lost).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The infrastructure rehabilitated under the project will be the responsibility of the respective implementing
agencies:

The roads and bridges financed under the project are part of the road network managed by SEOPC, and are
to be included in future O&M plans under its Road Maintenance Directorate. Likewise, the dams and
channels rehabilitated will continue under the control of the respective departments in INDRHI, which have
developed O&M plans. As noted above, however, carrying out periodic maintenance remains a challenge
in the country.

The Jimenoa Power Plant, once the testing phase is completed, will be connected to the network and will
operate according to a program to be prepared by CDE and approved by the Coordinating Agency of the
Interconnected Electrical System. Maintenance will be carried out following the recommendations of the
equipment manufacturers and existing arrangements in CDE.

In INDHRI, the telemetry network will be operated by the Hydrological Forecast Center and maintained by
the Maintenance Section of the Hydrological Network. The seismic network and the bathymetry equipment
will be operated by the Department of Dams and the communications network operated and maintained by
the Communications Unit of the Administrative Department.              The implementation of the actions
recommended in the flood control studies should be carried out by the Planning Department and the
Department of Special Programs and Projects.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance was satisfactory.       The Bank responded in a timely and effective manner to the
Government's request for emergency assistance, combining the new emergency loan with reprogramming of
investment funds from the existing portfolio. Parallel implementation of the Bank and IDB emergency
loans was ensured by processing the loan in record time to meet Board approval targets agreed with the
IDB. Good coordination with development partners during preparation resulted in a project that avoided
duplication of efforts and fostered collaboration among concerned partners.           This impressive effort
notwithstanding, given the short processing period, no adequate attention could be paid to critical issues
that subsequently affected achievement of objectives and sustainability. Nevertheless, this is something
inherent to an emergency operation and should be adequately taken into account when evaluating


                                                    - 15 -

performance.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance was satisfactory. On average, the Bank fielded three supervisions a year. At the
beginning, large multi-sectoral teams helped the various implementing agencies in getting started. These
teams helped the agencies carry out a good amount of work that is usually done during project preparation
under regular investment operations. Furthermore, the supervision team also worked with the implementing
unit in CCP and concerned stakeholders to develop terms of reference, hire the necessary consultants and
ensure that the objectives of the sub-program of disaster management were successfully achieved. As
stated by QAG after the Quality of Supervision Assessment for FY00, a lot of effort had to be put initially
into the fulfillment of fiduciary requirements, which normally would have been done during project
preparation, to the detriment of the longer-term aspects of the operation. QAG found the quality of
supervision to be fully satisfactory.

It was also noted by QAG at the time of the FY00 supervision assessment that a multi-sectoral operation of
this nature requires additional funds for supervision. Nevertheless, during FY00 and afterward, budget
constraints kept the supervision team relatively small -- basically two to three team core members,
including the Task Team Leader, who attempted to maximize the supervision budget to balance the skill
mix of the supervision team, including institutional development aspects. Partially because of this, the
Borrower expressed some times concerns that the Bank was not providing timely answers to its requests or
inquiries. On balance, however, the various sub-components were well supervised.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Considering the performance during project preparation and supervision, overall performance of the Bank
is rated satisfactory.

However, QAG noted in its assessment that, as the implementation delays became more evident, country
and sector management should have been more active in seeking to speed up project implementation. One
area where the Bank could also have performed better relates to loan closing date extension, once it was
recognized that the project would need several additional implementation months in order to achieve
development objectives. The short span of project extensions, based more on internal budgetary issues
rather than actual project needs, made it more difficult to achieve a steady project implementation pace.
These incremental extensions, ranging from 6.5 to 1.5 months, increased the uncertainty about the future of
the project, and constrained planning of activities and issuing of contracts to be fully financed by the loan.
On the other hand, it should be noted that this project was an emergency operation and Bank management
was flexible enough to consider extending it beyond its expected three-year implementation period.

Disbursement pace was highly uneven and relatively slow throughout the life of the project, but the Bank
endeavored to facilitate disbursements -- by lowering the threshold for direct disbursements, first from
US$250,000 to US$150,000 and then to US$50,000, for instance. The Bank, however, should have paid
more attention to the specific details of the financing categories of the project.         Often, there were
differences between the Bank and the Borrower regarding allocation of specific expenditures under the
various financing categories, which caused delays according to the Borrower. (A case in point is that
supervision of civil works was included under civil works in the Legal Agreement, but the Bank --
following regular practice -- often entered it under consultant services).




                                                     - 16 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory.            The Government was very active in
requesting Bank emergency assistance and supporting project preparation. The concerned agencies, at the
same time, worked closely with the Bank, IDB, and other development partners to identify emergency
assistance needs and define the overall reconstruction program. As a result, the project was prepared in
record time.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government's implementation performance was marginally satisfactory. Although relatively outside its
control, the Government could have taken a more proactive and conciliatory stance to solve the political
impasse in Congress and expedite project approval. More critically, despite its professed commitment to
the project, the Government did not take sufficient interest in ensuring that the effectiveness conditions of
the loan would be met on a timely manner. In addition, the Government did not take the necessary steps to
ensure that counterpart funds would be available when needed by the implementing agencies, did not give
enough support to CCP to ensure collaboration among implementing agencies, and did not ensure
continuity of staff within CCP ­ a critical factor to maintain and improve project implementation pace.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

On balance, performance of implementing agencies was marginally satisfactory. Performance across
agencies was, nevertheless, uneven. Performance of the Central Bank was satisfactory, ensuring efficient
implementation of the quick-disbursing component. In contrast, CCP performance was unsatisfactory. In
general, despite the lack of government support, CCP could have asserted itself more in order to increase
cooperation among implementing agencies and ensure better use of scarce counterpart funds. At the
beginning of project implementation, a financial analyst consultant had to be hired to strengthen CCP to
support IDB-IBRD liaison in processing replenishment applications, reconciliation of accounts etc.
Furthermore, CCP should have made an effort to avoid making unnecessary mistakes that reflect poorly on
its institutional performance, such as paying in advance for equipment because the project closing date was
approaching (eventually, the supplier could not deliver the equipment as it was bought out by another firm
due to financial problems); and asking the Bank to reimburse to the special account for procurement of
trucks after the Bank has paid the commercial bank holding the letter of credit for this purchase.

Assessed separately, performance of the implementing agencies of the infrastructure and mitigation
component was marginally satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Considering the ratings discussed above, overall Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory.




                                                      - 17 -

8. Lessons Learned


Bank Disaster Emergency Assistance

Bank post-disaster assistance needs to be rethought in light of the experience not only of this project, but
also of other emergency operations which had faced similar problems. Significantly, some of the most
successful emergency operations designed in a similar way to this project required several extensions and
on average a five year implementation period (against an initial three-year implementation period) to meet
its reconstruction and longer-term institutional capacity building objectives. These experiences suggest the
following:

    l ERLs require rapid preparation, smooth implementation, and project objectives that can be
        achieved in a short period of time. Although the pressure to respond rapidly to a government's
        request for post-disaster assistance is great, special attention should be paid to flexibility of project
        design and scope, realism of development objectives and monitoring and evaluation of project
        outcomes and impact. To the extent possible, emergency assistance should take advantage of
        available funds in the existing country portfolio. However, the impact of reprogramming of funds
        on the CAS and the development objectives of the affected projects should be carefully assessed.
        In general, initial assistance should be focused on repairing / rehabilitating critical social and
        economic infrastructure.

    l Medium-term objectives of reconstruction and rehabilitation to hazard-resistant standards and
        longer-term institutional capacity building objectives should, as much as possible, be dealt with
        through separate means or instruments. For instance, reconstruction efforts could be included,
        when feasible, under sector operations through supplements to existing loans, and new lending.
        Institutional capacity building could be addressed through a technical assistance loan with a longer
        preparation and implementation period. In vulnerable countries such as Dominican Republic,
        natural hazard mitigation should be mainstreamed in regular sector investment operations and
        promoted through Bank-Government dialogue, technical assistance and analytical and advisory
        work.

        The above strategy has already been successfully tried in the post-Earthquake assistance provided
        to the state of Gujarat in India.

    l Fiduciary requirements -- financial management and procurement -- should be more flexible than in
        investment operations, particularly in projects with relatively short-term rehabilitation and
        reconstruction activities.

Project Implementation and Supervision

The development effectiveness of emergency operations depends on how fast results are obtained on the
ground. To accomplish this, ERLs require experienced and properly staffed PIUs empowered to take
decisions ­ even if up to a certain level, supported by more flexible procurement and disbursement
procedures than usually applied to regular investment operations. In this respect, the Bank should pay
special attention to effectiveness and disbursement conditions since project start up may be slow down if
these prove to be too stringent.



                                                     - 18 -

  Once it is clear that project extension is needed to meet development objectives, decision on the length of
  closing date extension should be made on the basis of actual project needs. Under the circumstances
  experienced by the project, closing date extensions may be needed in order to complete project activities,
  disburse the loan resources and meet project objectives satisfactorily. On the other hand, the experience of
  this project also shows that extending a project for a shorter period than it actually needs, due to budgetary
  or other internal matters, increases the challenge of achieving a good and steady pace of project
  implementation, while diminishing the chances of having a larger project impact.

  Emergency operations that are multi-sectoral and also include mid-or-long-term institutional
  components demand a larger amount of supervision resources than investment projects and should be
  budgeted accordingly.

  Sustainability

  Provision for adequate operation and maintenance (O&M) of assets financed by the emergency
  operation should be a major concern from the beginning of project implementation. The Government
  should be aware that without proper O&M, the investments in rehabilitation and reconstruction may be lost
  again.


  9. Partner Comments

  (a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Main comments given by the implementing agencies, including CCP, are presented below. A more detailed
discussion is included in the Borrower's Project Completion Report (Annex 8).

Achievement of Project Objectives
The Borrower considered that the project had a positive impact regarding disaster risk management in the
country, and in its recovery after Hurricane Georges.

Performance of the Government and Implementing Agencies
The implementing agencies considered that in general the PIUs performed well. However, they acknowledged
that some of the project implementation delays could have been avoided through more concerted actions on
the part of the Government and themselves.          These include, inter alia, streamlining of bureaucratic
procedures (i.e, evaluation of proposals, negotiation and signing of contracts, etc.) that were not compatible
with the emergency nature of the project -- especially in CDE and INDRHI; ensuring adequate flow of
project funds and availability of counterpart funds; and improving the relationship between CCP and all
PIUs.

Bank Performance
In general, the implementing agencies expressed satisfaction with Bank performance during project
preparation and supervision. They appreciated the guidance given during project implementation. However,
the agencies felt that the Bank was somewhat constrained in dealing with the implementation needs of an
emergency operation, particularly regarding disbursement and procurement requirements. More specifically,
the implementing agencies, excepting SEOPC, felt that often the processing of routine matters (i.e., requests
for no objections, confirming opening of letters of credit, etc) took longer than necessary, and this resulted in
project implementation delays. The agencies also felt that the lack of a local Bank staff with decision making



                                                      - 19 -

capacity regarding these matters further exacerbated the problem.


 (b) Cofinanciers:
 NA

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 NA


 10. Additional Information




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Economic growth maintained in FY 1999 and GDP growth was 8.3 percent in 1999 and 7.3 GDP growth was 8.3 percent in 1999 and 7.3
FY 2000                                         in 2000                                         in 2000

Infrastructure rehabilitated / reconstructed to Most physical rehabilitation targets had been Physical rehabilitation / reconstruction targets
improved hazard-resistant standards             met by May 2003, and infrastructure has         met, although some road works were
                                                been rehabilitated utilizing improved           completed after project closing date
                                                hazard-resistant standards.

Technical capacity and knowledge to reduce It was expected that studies and technical           Studies and technical assistance related to
vulnerability of critical infrastructure        assistance related to vulnerable infrastructure vulnerable infrastructure completed
increased                                       would be completed by end of project

Early warning capacity of ONAMET and            Activities to increase capacity of ONAMET       Activities to increase capacity of ONAMET
INDHRI increased                                and INDHRI were expected to be completed        and INDHRI completed
                                                by end of project

Capacity of GSDR in SEOPC increased to          All equipment and software needed by GSDR Equipment and software is fully functional.
ensure effective implementation of the new      had been acquired by May 2003.                  Training on the building code did not take
National Building Code                                                                          place before the end of the project.




                                                                    - 21 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Reconstruction of 19 bridges damaged             All bridges to be completed by end of         17 bridges reconstructed, 2 bridges to be
/destroyed by the Hurricane                      projects                                      completed with local funds.


Rehabilitation of 242.3 kms of highways          About 205 kms of roads had been completed 209 km of roads completed applying better
affected by the Hurricane                        by May 2003. It was expected that targets     technical specs and standards than originally
                                                 would be met, but a few additional weeks      planned
                                                 were needed.


Reconstruction / rehabilitation of 17.6 kms of All targets related to reconstruction /         Targets surpassed: 29.1 km of canals, 11
canals, 11 dikes and 5.6 kms of river flood      rehabilitation of canals, dikes and flood     dikes and 6.4 km of flood protection
protection structures                            protection structures to be completed by end  structures reconstructed and/or rehabilitated
                                                 of project


Reconstruction of 11.5 kms of 69 kv              As agreed during project implementation,      Materials for the transmission line being
transmission line                                only the materials for the reconstruction of  installed with local funds
                                                 the transmission line were financed by the
                                                 project. The Government was expected to
                                                 finance the installation of the line.


Rehabilitation of Jimenoa Power Plant            Jimenoa Power Plant had been rehabilitated    Jimenoa Power Plant is functional again
including new equipment and civil works          by May 2003


Protection of agricultural lands from floods (*) Estimated figure of agricultural lands        Final data indicate that 15,000 Ha of
                                                 protected from floods by end of project       agricultural lands were made safer from
                                                 (4,400 ha)                                    floods


Protection of urban land from floods (*)         Estimated figure of urban land protected from Final data indicate that 25,000 Ha of urban
                                                 floods by end of project (315 ha)             land were made safer from floods


Population benefitting from flood protection     Estimated figure of population benefitting    Final data indicate that about 2,500 people
measures (*)                                     from flood protection measures by end of      directly benefitted from flood protection
                                                 project (at least 10,000 people directly and  measures
                                                 indirectly).


(Additional) Engineering design to reduce        Additional output agreed during project       Engineering design and preliminary
flood risk along the Quebrada Guajimia           implementation, and completed before end of environmental and social studies completed.
completed                                        project                                       Government has initiated discussions with
                                                                                               donors to carry out the project in a phased
                                                                                               manner.

1 End of project
(*) Targets for these indicators were not defined initially.




                                                                     - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Quick-disbursing Component                               60.00          60.00              100

B. Reconstruction and Mitigation Component
   B.1 Roads / Bridges                                      28.70          37.17            129.5
   B.2 Irrigation                                           13.40          11.78             87.9
   B.3 Electricity                                           8.30            7.69            92.7
   B.4 Disaster Risk Management Capacity Building            6.90            7.85           113.8

C. Project Implementation Support                            0.90            2.17           241.1


Total Baseline Cost                                        118.20         126.66
 Physical Contingencies                                      5.80
 Price Contingencies                                         1.20
                        Total Project Costs                125.20         126.66
                                        Front-end fee        1.11            1.11
                  Total Financing Required                 126.31         127.77




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            30.20        24.50         0.00         54.70
                                  (0.00)          (22.10)      (18.40)        (0.00)      (40.50)
2. Goods                           4.00             0.00         0.30         0.00          4.30
                                  (3.10)           (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (3.30)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         6.20         0.00          6.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.20)         (0.00)       (6.20)
   Total                           4.00            30.20        31.00         0.00         65.20
                                  (3.10)          (22.10)      (24.80)        (0.00)      (50.00)




                                                - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 33.63              1.97             18.03             0.00             53.63
                                           (25.55)            (1.38)           (10.27)            (0.00)           (37.20)
   2. Goods                                 0.06               0.30              2.65             0.00              3.01
                                           (0.06)             (0.30)            (2.65)            (0.00)           (3.01)
   3. Services                              4.85               0.00              5.17             0.00             10.02
                                           (4.85)             (0.00)            (4.68)            (0.00)           (9.53)
       Total                                38.54              2.27             25.85             0.00             66.66
                                           (30.46)            (1.68)           (17.60)            (0.00)           (49.74)
   Table is based on latest estimates (December 16, 2003). About US$0.26 remained undisbursed at the end of the
   project

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Quick-Disbursing             60.00        0.00                    60.00         0.00                  100.0     0.0


B. Reconstruction and
Mitigation
B.1 Roads / Bridges             22.50        9.60                    24.16         13.01                 107.4    135.5
B.2 Irrigation                  12.00        3.00                     9.72         2.06                  81.0      68.7
B.3 Electricity                 7.40         1.90                     6.33         1.36                  85.5      71.6
B.4 DRM Capacity                7.10         0.70                     7.37         0.48                  103.8     68.6
Building
C. Project Implementation       1.00         0.00                     2.16         0.01                  216.0     0.0
Support




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Roads and Bridges Component

The ex-ante economic evaluation was done using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-III), which evaluated 273 km of reconstruction works on eight unspecified road sections and yielded
a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$19.8 million and an average Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 21.4
percent.

In regular investment operations, roads are selected for financing during project preparation following
defined economic criteria. In contrast, the roads and the scope of works of the emergency operation were
defined during the implementation phase taking into consideration the damage caused by the hurricane and
the available resources. As such, the ex-ante economic evaluation included in the PAD presents 'standard'
economic returns for typical roads and road works in the country. The scope of works for some roads
changed during implementation, evolving from necessary surface distress repairs to full rehabilitation and
reconstruction based on the availability of resources and the technical needs of each road. For this reason,
the ex-post economic evaluation was done to assess if the investments were also justified from and
economic perspective.

The ex-post economic evaluation, carried out for the ICR, covers rehabilitation and reconstruction road
works (209 km) using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which is the new
version of HDM-III. The HDM-4 Model was first used to simulate an ex­ante economic evaluation for
each road project, considering: (i) contract costs, (ii) estimated traffic at the beginning of the evaluation
period, and (iii) timing and duration of the road works estimated at the signature of the contracts. The
simulated ex­ante evaluation was then compared with an ex-post evaluation, which considered: (i) actual
costs, (ii) actual traffic, and (iii) actual timing and duration of road works. On both evaluations, the
evaluation period is 20 years, the discount rate is 12 percent, and all costs are expressed in 2002 US
Dollars.

Road Works

The ex-post evaluation considered eight road projects, comprising 209 km, which required an investment of
US$24.6 million, representing about 50 percent of the civil works project costs. The table below presents
the road works evaluated at the ex-post study.



                                             Road Works Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                                                                                      Road Road Traffic
             Project Road                                        Road                Length Width 2001 Investment
            Number Section                                       Work                 (km)   (m)  (vpd) (US$ M.)
               1     Hato Mayor - El Valle - Sabana de la Mar    Reconstruction       43.9    9.0  554        5.1
               2     C/Palo alto ­ Tamayo                        Reconstruction         9.2   8.0  407        1.4
               3     San Cristóbal ­ Cambita                     Reconstruction       11.0    6.6 2250        1.5
               4     San Cristobal - Hato Damas -C/Duarte        Reconstruction       27.1    6.6  326        3.1
               5     Barahona ­Enriquillo                        Overlay              47.5  10.3   991        1.4
               6     Higuey - Nisibon ­ Miches                   Overlay              31.4  10.0   289        1.5
               7     Jarabacoa ­Manabao                          Reconstruction       20.0    8.0  881        4.3
               8     Sabana Grande de Boya - Doña Maria          Reconstruction       18.5    6.3  510        6.2
             Total                                                                    208.5                  24.6




                                                             - 25 -

The projects include either pavement reconstruction with an asphalt layer (50mm to 100mm) over a
granular base (200mm to 300mm) or asphalt concrete resurfacing. The investments represent actual
expenditures on each project, expressed on 2002 US Dollars, which were computed by first expressing the
flow of disbursements in 2002 Dominican Republic Pesos, using the Dominican Republic Consumer Price
Index, and then converting the resulting Dominican Pesos to Dollars using the average 2002 exchange rate.
The following table presents the resulting average actual unit road works costs for different work types. On
the PAD ex-ante economic evaluation of typical road works, the estimated average reconstruction unit cost
was US$127,100/km, expressed in 2002 US Dollars, which indicates that the actual costs are 1.4 times
higher than the average costs assumed in the PAD.



                                                 Average Actual Unit Road Works
                                                                                      Number       Cost      Cost
          Work Class     Work Type                     Predominant Work Activity      Projects (US$/m2)  (US$/km)
          Periodic        Asphalt Mix Resurfacing      Overlay 40 to 59 mm                  2        3.9   38,943
          Rehabilitation  Reconstruction               Reconstruction Bituminous            8      25.1   178,473
          Costs in 2002 US Dollars




The table below presents actual costs and contract costs per km, expressed in 2002 US Dollars, and the
ratio between the actual and contract costs. The average ratio, excluding the Sabana Grande de Boya ­
Doña Maria section, is 1.1 indicating that the actual costs, on average, did not increase much in real terms
above the contract costs. In the case of the Sabana Grande de Boya ­ Doña Maria section, the increase in
cost was a consequence of the relatively high standards adopted for the repair, which was in fact a total
reconstruction.



                                                Actual and Contract Unit Road Works
                                                                         Actual     Contract   Actual
                                                                          Cost       Cost       per
                                                                      (M US$/km) (M US$/km) Contract
                        Hato Mayor - El Valle - Sabana de la Mar          0.117     0.117       1.0
                        C/Palo alto ­ Tamayo                              0.149     0.175       0.8
                        San Cristóbal ­ Cambita                           0.138     0.095       1.5
                        San Cristobal - Hato Damas -C/Duarte              0.115     0.079       1.5
                        Barahona ­Enriquillo                              0.029     0.038       0.8
                        Higuey - Nisibon ­ Miches                         0.049     0.041       1.2
                        Jarabacoa ­Manabao                                0.214     0.173       1.2
                        Sabana Grande de Boya - Doña Maria                0.337     0.094       3.6
                        Average                                           0.144     0.101       1.4




The table below presents the ratio of actual execution time per expected execution time when the contract
was signed, showing that all projects exceeded the expected execution time. The average ratio is 3.20
indicating that, on average, road works took around three times the expected time to be completed. At the
signature of the contracts, it was expected that the works will be done, on average, in around 12 months but
the average actual execution time was 33 months.




                                                              - 26 -

                                                   Actual and Contract Execution Time
                                                                               Actual      Contract  Actual
                         Road                                                   Time        Time      Per
                         Section                                              (months)     (months) Contract
                         Hato Mayor - El Valle - Sabana de la Mar                37          14       2.6
                         C/Palo alto ­ Tamayo                                    36           5       7.2
                         San Cristóbal ­ Cambita                                 34          12       2.8
                         San Cristobal - Hato Damas -C/Duarte                    34          12       2.8
                         Barahona ­Enriquillo                                    33          12       2.8
                         Higuey - Nisibon ­ Miches                               13           8       1.6
                         Jarabacoa ­Manabao                                      37          10       3.7
                         Sabana Grande de Boya - Doña Maria                      37          19       1.9
                         Average                                                 33          12       3.2




Originally the scope of works planned for each road were designed to restore the passability and safety of
each road by performing necessary surface distress repairs. However, during the execution of the road
works, it was determined that there were enough project funds to perform not only basic repairs but to
perform full rehabilitation or reconstruction works on some roads that would technically need this level of
investments. Therefore, the changes on the scope of works partially explain the cost increases and the
increase on the execution times.

Traffic

The table below presents the annual average daily traffic estimated for 2001. The average daily traffic is
776 vehicles per day, with one road (San Cristóbal ­ Cambita) having 2,250 vehicles per day. The study
found that the average vehicle fleet composition is a) 30 percent cars, b) 41 percent pickups, c) 1 percent
buses, d) 9 percent light trucks, e) 12 percent medium trucks, f) 4 percent heavy trucks, and g) 3 percent
articulated trucks.

                                              Estimated Average Annual Daily Traffic in 2001
                                                      Total                                 Light  Medium  Heavy Articulated
      Road                                           Traffic   Cars    Pickups     Bus      Truck  Truck    Truck  Truck
      Section                                        (AADT) (AADT) (AADT) (AADT) (AADT) (AADT) (AADT)             (AADT)
      Hato Mayor - El Valle - Sabana de la Mar         554       71      291         7       50     102      19      13
      C/Palo alto - Tamayo                             407       99       77         8       56     115      13      38
      San Cristóbal - Cambita                         2250     1833       76         2       79     45      202      11
      San Cristobal - Hato Damas -C/Duarte             326       40      260         7        0     17       2       0
      Barahona -Enriquillo                             991      202      609         2       38     34       84      23
      Higuey - Nisibon - Miches                        289       30      152         0       75     25       4       3
      Jarabacoa -Manabao                               881      470      267         8       30     29       40      38
      Sabana Grande de Boya - Doña Maria               510      144      158         5       42     155      7       12
      Average                                          776      361      236         5       46     65       47      17




Economic Evaluation

The HDM-4 Model estimated the net benefits of each project in terms of reduction of vehicle operating
costs, passenger time costs and road maintenance expenditures, which occurs after periodic maintenance or
rehabilitation works.         The following table presents the results of the ex-ante and ex­post economic
evaluations, describing for each road project, the Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) and the corresponding ratios of the ex-post results vis-a-vis ex-ante results.




                                                                 - 27 -

                                                 Economic Evaluation Results
                                                     Net Present Value (Million US$)    Internal Rate of Return (%)
       Road                                          Ex-ante      Ex-post     Ex-post  Ex-ante     Ex-post     Ex-post
       Section                                      Evaluation   Evaluation    Ratio  Evaluation  Evaluation     Ratio
       Hato Mayor - El Valle - Sabana de la Mar       2.47          2.08        0.85    21.2         20.9        0.99
       C/Palo alto - Tamayo                           0.07          0.22        3.18    12.9         15.8        1.22
       San Cristóbal - Cambita                        6.00          4.90        0.82    85.7         56.7        0.66
       San Cristobal - Hato Damas -C/Duarte           1.10          0.30        0.27    21.3         14.2        0.67
       Barahona -Enriquillo                           7.30          6.95        0.95    63.3         87.8        1.39
       Higuey - Nisibon - Miches                      0.41          0.23        0.56    19.3         16.1        0.83
       Jarabacoa -Manabao                             1.82          0.95        0.52    21.4         16.8        0.79
       Sabana Grande de Boya - Doña Maria             3.61         -0.24       -0.07    47.5         11.0        0.23
       Average                                        2.85          1.92        0.89    36.6         29.9        0.85
       Total                                          22.78        15.40



The table shows that, with the exception of the Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña Maria section, all projects
are economically justified, under the ex-ante or ex-post scenarios, with rates of return higher than 12
percent. Due to the high actual project costs, the Sabana Grande de Boya-Doña Maria section has an
ex-post marginal economic rate of return of 11 percent . The resulting project benefits are due to the
reasonable investment costs and the deteriorated road condition found before the project due to the damage
done by Hurricane Georges. For the eight projects, the overall ex-post IRR is 29.9 percent corresponding
to a total NPV of US$ 15.4 million.




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/98                   13     1 lead eng (TL), 1 macroecon, 1
                                             lead highway eng, 1 community
                                             & social dev spec, 1 irrigation
                                             spec, 1 energy spec, 1 municipal
                                             eng & housing spec, 1 country
                                             lawyer, 1 proc spec, 1 disb spec,
                                             1 disaster management spec, 1
                                             FM spec, 1 resident rep

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/98                          Same as above
              12/98

 Supervision
              05/99                     3    1 lead eng (TL), 1 dis                 S               S
                                             management spec, 1 lead
                                             highway eng

              07/99                     8    1 lead eng (TL), 1 env spec, 1         S               S
                                             proc spec, 1 lead highway eng, 1
                                             energy spec, 1 irrigation spec, 1
                                             dis management spec, 1 FM spec
              09/99                     1    1 lead highway eng                     S               S

              12/99                     7    1 lead eng (TL), 1 env spec, 1         S               S
                                             FM spec, 1 lead highway eng, 1
                                             dis management spec, 2 early
                                             warning/meteorology spec

              03/00                     2    1 lead highway eng (TL), 1 dis         S               S
                                             management spec

              08/00                     1    1 lead highway eng (TL)                S               S

              11/00                     4    1 lead highway eng (TL), 1             S               S
                                             emergency operations coord, 1
                                             dis management spec, 1 proc
                                             spec

              2/01                      3    1 lead highway eng (TL), 1 dis         S               S
                                             management spec, 1 FM spec

              5/01                      2    1 lead highway eng (TL), 1 dis         S               S
                                             management spec




                                              - 29 -

               10/01                   2   1 lead highway eng (TL), 1 dis     S    S
                                           management spec
               01/02                   1   1 lead highway eng (TL)            S    S

               06/02                   3   1 lead highway eng (TL), 1 dis     S    S
                                           management spec, 1 energy spec

               10/02                   2   1 lead highway eng (TL), 1         S    S
                                           energy spec

               02/03                   1   1 lead highway eng (TL)            S    S

 ICR
               06/03                  1     1 lead highway eng (TL)           S    S

               10/03                  1     1 consultant                      S    S




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           32.70                         118.30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                13.60                            48.0
  Supervision                          70.74                          305.0
  ICR                                   2.27                            25.0
  Total                                73.01                          496.3




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Disaster vulnerability
reduction
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


BID. 1998. "Programa de Reconstrucción y Mejoramiento ante los Efectos del Huracán Georges --
Informe del Proyecto." Washington, D.C.: Banco-Interamericano de Desarrollo. Doc. DR-0135.

CCP. 2000. "Ajuste del Subprograma de Prevención de Desastres." Santo Domingo, D.R.: Comisión
Coordinadora del Programa (CCP), Secretaría Tecnica de la Presidencia.

ECLAC. 1999. Republica Dominicana: Evaluación de los Daños Ocasionados por el Huracán Georges,
1998. Santo Domingo, DR: Sectretaría Tecnica de la Presidencia; Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean (ECLAC).

Studies Financed under the Project

   Codigo de Edificaciones de la Republica Dominicana

   Diseño de Ingenieria para el Proyecto de Cañada Guajimia

   Estudios Ambientales Cañada Guajimia

   Estudio de Control de Inundaciones del Rio Yaque del Norte

   Estudio de Control de Inundaciones del Rio Yaque del Sur

   Estudio General de Control de Inundaciones

   Estudio de Vulnerabilidad de Presas

   Revision del Sistema de Supervision de Obras

   Programa de Cultura de Agua en Cauces Yaque del Norte, Higuamo and Yaque del Sur




                                                - 33 -

  Additional Annex 8. Informe de Cierre del Proyecto (Borrower's Project Completion
  Report)


SECCION I
SUMARIO GLOBAL, EVALUACIONES Y CONCLUSIONES

El Marco Lógico del Programa que figura en el Project Appraisal Document de fecha 3 de Diciembre del
1998 define los Objetivos generales y específicos que han de alcanzarse con la implementación de este
Programa, mediante los Componentes y Subcomponentes (proyectos) que se han de ejecutar para el logro de
esos Objetivos.

Objetivos Generales

   l Impulsar el Crecimiento Económico y la Mitigación de la Pobreza

   l Mejorar la Gestión Ambiental



Objetivos específicos

   l Ayudar para mantener la estabilidad macroeconómica, financiando costos de importación asociados
       al establecimiento de infraestructuras y niveles de producción afectados por el paso del huracán.

   l Reconstrucción y rehabilitación de la infraestructura social y económica afectada o destruida.

   l Implementación de mejoras en infraestructura afectada, mitigando posibles daños que puedan
       ocasionar futuros fenómenos naturales

   l Implementación de un programa de fortalecimiento institucional dirigido a mejorar la respuesta ante
       las situaciones de emergencia.



Componentes

    1. Financiación de importaciones criticas con fondos de rápido desembolso

    2. Obras de infraestructura para la reconstrucción en:

       2.1. Carreteras y puentes dañados
       2.2. Sistemas de irrigación dañados
       3.3. Líneas de transmisión eléctrica dañadas y Rehabilitación de la planta de generación
              hidroeléctrica de Jimenoa
       4.4. Plan de acción para la adecuación de las instituciones para el manejo de las emergencias en
              casos de desastres




                                                     - 34 -

EVALUACIONES Y CONCLUSIONES

SECCION II
COMPONENTE DE DESEMBOLSO RÁPIDO

A.1.- Con el objetivo de ayudar a mantener la estabilidad macroeconómica, el Secretariado Técnico de la
Presidencia acordó con el Banco Mundial, el financiamiento de bienes importados por un monto ascendente a
US$ 60 millones correspondientes a la Categoría A.1 del Préstamo. Este financiamiento no requería de
contrapartida.

Con relación a los tipos de bienes que pudieran importarse, se hizo constar en el Apéndice número 6 del
Contrato de Préstamo una Lista Positiva (se anexa listado) o de productos elegibles entre los cuales se
identificaron los siguientes: Granos, Aceites Comestibles, Semillas, Equipos e Insumos Agrícolas, Cemento,
Materiales de Construcción, Maquinaria Industrial, Repuestos, Materia Prima, Equipos y Suplementos
Médicos.

La unidad ejecutora de este componente, el Banco Central, presentó 3 justificaciones de importaciones
elegibles para financiamiento por un valor de US$ 61,086,004.04. Que correspondían a importaciones
realizadas entre el periodo del 23 de septiembre de 1998 y el 31 de diciembre de 1999.

Finalmente el Banco Mundial, aprobó mediante 3 desembolsos las partidas correspondientes al total del
componente A.1, es decir, US$ 60 millones (se anexa resumen de productos importados), procediendo el
Banco Mundial a desembolsarlos de la siguiente manera: Un primer desembolso de US$ 22,000,000.00,
luego un segundo desembolso por: US$ 36,913,995.96, y por último, un tercer desembolso por: US$
1,086,004.04, de esta manera se alcanzaban los objetivos de equilibrio macroeconómico fijados, al inyectarse
al sistema esa cantidad de divisas.



SECCION III
COMPONENTES REALIZADOS POR EL INDRHI

Alcance del programa
Como consecuencia de los efectos del huracán Georges se identificaron 84 obras de la infraestructura del
INDRHI que fueron seriamente averiadas en los diez Distritos de Riego que tiene esa institución en todo el
territorio Nacional. El INDRHI estableció sus prioridades y finalmente se seleccionaron 16 de las obras
dañadas para rehabilitarlas con financiamiento del Préstamo No. 4420 DO. Las obras incluyeron 11 diques
de tomas para canales de irrigación, 3 obras de defensa de riveras de ríos y rehabilitaciones de canales y
drenajes. El subprograma incluyó adquisiciones de bienes destinados a la prevención y consultorías para
diseños de obras, para supervisiones de construcción de obras y para estudios específicos.

Detalles de las actividades ejecutadas se encuentran en los cuadros del anexo "INDRHI" de este informe.

Objetivos
Los objetivos del programa consistieron, principalmente, en restaurar la estructura dañada por Georges y, de
ser posible, mejorar su no-vulnerabilidad ante la ocurrencia de eventuales fenómenos semejantes. Con el
propósito de mejorar el desempeño del INDRHI se ejecutó El Plan De Alerta Temprana Mediante el cual se
recibe información en tiempo real y permite hacer predicciones y tomar medidas oportunas ante la eventual
ocurrencia de fenómenos naturales.




                                                     - 35 -

CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS

A.- Cumplimiento de objetivos generales

Implementación del crecimiento económico y mitigación de la pobreza.
El subprograma del INDRHI cumplió este objetivo con la rehabilitación de 16 obras que fueron retornadas a
su nivel de producción existente antes del huracán Georges. El rendimiento y la no-vulnerabilidad de las
obras rehabilitadas fueron mejorados en los casos en los cuales fue posible.

Mejorar la gestión Ambiental.
La Secretaría de Estado de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARENA), de reciente creación,
sancionó los proyectos de las obras rehabilitadas. La intervención de SEMARENA garantiza el cumplimiento
de los requerimientos ambientales de esas obras.

B.- Cumplimiento de objetivos específicos

Reconstrucción y rehabilitación de la infraestructura social y económica afectada o destruida.
Es evidente que este objetivo se cumplió con la ejecución del programa de rehabilitación de las 16 obras
citadas anteriormente.

Implementación de mejoras en infraestructura afectada, mitigando posibles daños que puedan
ocasionar futuros fenómenos naturales. Los diseños efectuados para la rehabilitación de las obras fueron
concebidos para mejorar la no-vulnerabilidad de las obras a rehabilitar.

Implementación de un programa de fortalecimiento institucional dirigido a mejorar la respuesta ante
las situaciones de emergencia. Este objetivo fue ampliamente logrado por el INDRHI mediante las acciones
siguientes:

    a. El restablecimiento y ampliación de la red sísmica del INDRHI permitirá monitorear las principales
        fallas geológicas y respuesta de las presas ante este tipo de excitaciones.

    b. La modernización y ampliación de la red de comunicaciones del INDRHI permitirá una eficiente
        comunicación de informaciones hidrometeoro lógicas complementarias a las transmitidas por vía
        satélite por la red telemétrica hidrológica e informaciones de interés para la respuesta y mitigación de
        los efectos de eventos extremos.

    c. Los estudios de vulnerabilidad de presas han permitido diagnosticar la vulnerabilidad de las grandes
        presas, así como las intervenciones requeridas en varias de ellas para mejorar su seguridad.

    d. El estudio de control de inundaciones en la cuenca del río Yaque del Norte ha definido un plan de
        obras a ser ejecutadas a largo plazo, así como un plan de gestión contra inundaciones en la principal
        cuenca hidrográfica del país.

    e. El estudio de control de inundaciones en la cuenca del río Yaque del Sur ha definido las obras
        requeridas para disminuir los daños en esta importante cuenca hidrográfica.

     f. El convenio INDRHI - ONAMET es un hito importante en la coordinación interinstitucional para
        acciones conjuntas en la prevención como en la mitigación y respuesta.




                                                       - 36 -

Evaluaciones

A.- DE LA UES Y LECCIONES APRENDIDAS.
La UES del INDRHI fue creada para manejar el subprograma asignado al INDRHI dentro del Préstamo No.
4420 - DO. Dispuso de local para sus operaciones a partir de noviembre de 1999 y completó sus equipos de
oficina en marzo de 2000. Tuvo a su cargo la preparación de los documentos de licitación y/o contratación de
los diseños, de construcción de obras y de consultorías. Los procesos de licitaciones y contrataciones de
obras se ejecutaron con la colaboración del Comité de Licitaciones del INDRHI y del Departamento Legal.
La eficiencia de la UES en el desempeño de las tareas a su cargo fue satisfactoria, sin embargo hubo algunos
retrasos en los procesos de evaluación de propuestas, firmas de contratos y toma de decisiones.

B.- DEL GOBIERNO DOMINICANO
Retrasos en aportes de contrapartida y lentitud en el flujo de fondos a través de la estructura financiera del
Gobierno influyeron en la extensión de los períodos de ejecución de las obras.

Los alcances para los      estudios de las obras     construidas, particularmente el     canal Jimani    y el
encauzamiento del arroyo tenguerengue en San Juan de la Maguana, se obviaron algunos aspectos técnicos,
por lo cual podrían surgir futuros inconvenientes que afecten las obras.

C.- DEL BANCO
La UES se siente satisfecha de la oportunidad de respuesta dada por el Banco a los asuntos que le fueron
sometidos.

Situación financiera original: El monto del presupuesto original fue de US$ 14,750,000.00 de los cuales el
banco financiaba US$ 12,750,000.00 y el gobierno US$ 2,000,000.00

Situación financiera modificada: El monto del presupuesto modificado fue de US$ 15,469,335.79 de los
cuales el banco financio US$ 13,398,938.69 y el gobierno US$2,070,397.10, lo que represento un
incremento de US$ 719,335.79.



SECCION IV
COMPONENTES REALIZADOS POR CDE

Alcance del programa
Las obras que integran el Componente se refieren a la rehabilitación de una línea de transmisión eléctrica de
69 KV con facilidad para operar a 138 KV y a la rehabilitación de la Central Hidroeléctrica de Jimenoa.

Presupuesto original
Línea Palamara-Arroyo Hondo                US$ 2,098,482.27
Central Hidroeléctrica de Jimenoa          US$ 4,524,258.73
Consultoria                                US$ 1,073,297.81
Bienes adicionales para las obras          US$      52,800.00
Total                                      US$ 7,748.838.85

El presupuesto original para la CDE de US$ 7,812,500.00 fue modificado por cambios sufridos en la tasa de
cambio del EURO respecto al dólar, la adenda a la obra de Jimenoa y a las extensiones en los plazos de la
consultoria de supervisión DECON.




                                                     - 37 -

Los compromisos quedaron finalmente en US$ 7,748,838.85; Debido a que el contrato para la construcción
de la línea de transmisión Palamara - Arroyo Hondo; fue modificado motivado por problemas con la fecha
de ejecución del prestamo establecida al momento de la toma de decisión, a solo suministro de materiales.

OBJETIVOS

A.- Cumplimiento de objetivos generales.

Implementación del crecimiento económico y mitigación de la pobreza.
El Componente de la CDE cumplió este objetivo con la rehabilitación de las dos 2 obras que fueron
retornadas a su nivel de producción existente antes del huracán Georges. El rendimiento y la
no-vulnerabilidad de las obras rehabilitadas fue mejorado.

Mejorar la gestión Ambiental. La Secretaría de Estado de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
SEMARENA, de reciente creación, evaluó los proyectos de las obras rehabilitadas, lo que garantiza el
cumplimiento de los requerimientos ambientales de las obras.

B.- Cumplimiento de objetivos específicos:
Reconstrucción y rehabilitación de la infraestructura social y económica afectada o destruida. Es evidente
que este objetivo se cumplió con la ejecución del programa de rehabilitación de las dos obras citadas
anteriormente.

Implementación de mejoras en la infraestructura afectada, mitigando los posibles daños que puedan ocasionar
futuros fenómenos naturales.

Evaluaciones

A.- De la UES y lecciones aprendidas

Consultora de apoyo a las licitaciones:
Para la CDE, el problema principal se derivo del proceso de capitalización que se llevo a cabo en la empresa.
La reducción de personal en la UES disminuyó el número de técnicos y de personal administrativo,
habiéndose presentado la situación de que en los cuatro primeros meses de ejecución fueron tres los
coordinadores de la UES que se sucedieron, lo que lógicamente representó lentitud en la ejecución. Los
atrasos se debieron a los numerosos trámites que tienen que seguir los documentos dentro de la institución.
La participación de una empresa consultora para la elaboración de diseños y de la Cogerencia en procesos
licitatorios y de seguimiento han sido factores de importancia para lograr la culminación de las obras.

Equipos informáticos:
Con la adquisición de equipos modernos de informática se logro obtener mejor control de las actividades y
mejorar la gestión de los proyectos

Sistema de control contable ¨SAF¨
Este sorfware permitió un mejor manejo y control de los recursos externos y facilito la preparación de los
estados financieros del programa.

B.- DEL GOBIERNO DOMINICANO
Los fondos de contrapartida fueron suministrados desde el principio, por lo cual no existió atraso en el
paripasu


                                                     - 38 -

C.- DEL BANCO
Los procedimientos de aprobación de actividades, las no objeciones y la confirmación de aperturas de carta
de crédito, tomaron mucho tiempo, lo cual afectó la celeridad del proceso de ejecución. La falta de un
funcionario local del Banco, con capacidad para decidir con relación a los trámites de rutina y él tener que
depender de una relación a distancia con la sede en Washington, restaron eficiencia al proceso y la perdida de
una relación más estrecha y eficaz entre el Banco y las UES en conjunto con la CCP.

OBRAS DEL COMPONENTE ELÉCTRICO

Rehabilitación Central Hidroeléctrica de Jimenoa
Se prevé que con la rehabilitación de la Central de Jimenoa, se podrá disminuir el déficit en el suministro de
energía eléctrica, mejorando la calidad del servicio en las zonas aledañas.

Línea de Transmisión 138 kv, Palamara-Arroyo Hondo:
Obra ubicada en la zona norte del Distrito Nacional, parte urbana y parte rural 6 Km, en postes tubulares y
5.5 Km, en torres, respectivamente; incluyo el desmontaje de las líneas existentes en 69 kv en una longitud de
17 KM aproximadamente que corresponden a tramos paralelos.

Consultora de Supervisión
El monto original previsto para los servicios de consultoria por US$ 509,259.00; fueron incrementados
hasta un valor de US$ 1,104,084.35, motivado por cuatro extensiones en el contrato debido básicamente a:

    1. - Preparación de los términos de referencia de los documentos para la licitación de la central de
    Jimenoa,

    2. - Demora en los tramites de aprobación de documentos,

    3. - Declaración de desierta la primera licitación

    4. - Evaluaciones, firmas de contratos, pago de anticipos y emisión de cartas de crédito.



SECCION V
COMPONENTES REALIZADOS POR PMR

Alcances del Componente
El Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia STP, por medio de la Unidad Ejecutora Sectorial de Prevención,
Mitigación y Respuesta UES de PMR, fue el responsable de ejecutar un conjunto de acciones destinadas a
alcanzar una capacidad de PMR fortalecida en la República Dominicana, según el documento de "ajuste del
Subprograma de Prevención de Desastres", con acciones e inversiones en los siguientes componentes:

    i. Mejora de la capacidad de la ciudadanía para enfrentar desastres;

    ii. Implantación de instrumentos de gestión territorial y de recursos naturales;

   iii. Mejora del sistema de control de la vulnerabilidad de obras;




                                                      - 39 -

    iv. Dotación de instrumentos modernos y efectivos a las Instituciones de PMR.

El costo total original del Subprograma de US$ 11.4 millones, se financio con cargos a los recursos del
préstamo BID 1152/OC-DR para los componentes i, ii y iv; y con cargo a los recursos del préstamo BIRF
4420-DO para el componente iii, El Gobierno de la República Dominicana GRD, aporto la contrapartida de
acuerdo con lo establecido en los respectivos contratos de préstamo.

OBJETIVOS

A.- Cumplimiento del objetivo general
Alcanzar una capacidad de prevención, mitigación y respuesta ante desastres fortalecidos en la República
Dominicana. Para alcanzar este propósito en lo que respecta al componente iii, financiado con recursos
provenientes del préstamo BIRF 4420-DO, se emprendieron acciones destinadas a lograr un "Sistema de
Control de Vulnerabilidad de Obras Mejorado en el País", siendo la Dirección General de Reglamentos y
Sistemas DGRS de la Secretaría de Obras Públicas y Comunicaciones SEOPC, el principal coejecutor con el
apoyo de la firma consultora CEP-GE2-INTEC. En lo concerniente a la Vulnerabilidad de las Grandes
Presas, el co-ejecutor lo fue el Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidráulicos INDRHI, con el apoyo de la firma
consultora Sir John Halcrow y asociados.

B.- Cumplimiento de objetivos específicos
Elaboración del "Código de Edificaciones". Esta actividad estuvo a            cargo de la firma consultora
CEP-GE2-INTEC y la supervisión de la DGRS-SEOPC y Sodosísmica, con la colaboración de diferentes
consultores contratados para las áreas temáticas específicas del Código. Fueron realizados            talleres
participativos "para consensuar" la propuesta del nuevo código de edificaciones en la primera fase.

Por la tardanza en la entrega de los estudios por parte de La firma consultora, a la DGRS-SEOPC, a esta
dirección le resulto imposible proceder con la implementación del código, por lo cual queda pendiente.

Revisión del "Sistema de Supervisión de Obras". Actividad desarrollada y completada por contrato, a cargo
del Dr. Manuel Gómez Achecar y la supervisión de la DGRS de la SEOPC.

Apoyo a la implantación de recomendaciones de la revisión del Sistema de Supervisión de Obras. Pendiente
la puesta en marcha

Diagnóstico de obras de infraestructura y su vulnerabilidad. Actividad a cargo de la firma consultora
CEP-GE2-INTEC con la supervisión de DGRS-SEOPC y Sodosísmica. Incluyendo estructuras hospitalarias;
Hospital Cabral y Báez en Santiago), escolares, edificios de gobierno y del cuerpo de bomberos.
En el caso de la Vulnerabilidad de las Grandes Presas, el trabajo estuvo a cargo de la firma consultora Sir
John Halcrow y Asociados, con la supervisión del INDRHI y el apoyo de dos consultores internacionales y
uno nacional.

Estudio de control de inundaciones en las cuencas hidrográficas. Actividades a cargo del INDRHI con la
participación de diferentes consultores, incluyendo aspectos de "cultura del agua" con fines preventivos. Esta
última actividad ha sido una de las más significativas por su efecto multiplicador al incorporar y capacitar a
las comunidades de ciertas cuencas críticas como, Yaque del Norte, Yaque del Sur e Higuamo, en el control
de la calidad del agua y su entorno ambiental en relación con la cuenca.

Una actividad adicional que resultó exitosa lo fue "El Diseño para el encauzamiento pluvial y sanitario de la
Cañada Guajimía" a cargo de la firma Auding Latinoamerican Ingenieros Sanitarios, con la supervisión de


                                                       - 40 -

la Corporación de Acueductos y Alcantarillados de Santo Domingo CAASD.
Con la venia del Banco, recibió un Addendun más para realizar el estudio de "impacto ambiental y
reasentamientos" con cargo a la partida sin asignación específica del BIRF 4420-DO.

Otra de las actividades cruciales para el país, fue el "sistema nacional de alerta meteorológica", a cargo de la
Oficina Nacional de Meteorología ONAMET, con la asesoría general de la Organización Meteorológica
Mundial OMM y el apoyo de las firmas consultoras: ELIOVAC para la instrumentación de la red de
estaciones meteorológicas; RPG para el sistema de divulgación audiovisual y de CODETEL para la red de
telecomunicaciones LAN-WAN con la supervisión y asesoría de Blanca Pérez y Alan Byrne /DELCAN
Canadá.

Como parte del fortalecimiento institucional de la Dirección General de Reglamentos y Sistemas DGRS de la
SEOPC, está la actividad de "adquisiciones" que incluye equipos de cómputo, periférico más software,
audiovisuales, vehículo, "red de acelerómetros y acelerógrafos para movimientos débiles y fuertes
contratados a SPRENGNETHER Instruments", así como documentos, libros y actualización bibliográfica.

Avances físicos y financieros
Los fondos del componente ascendieron a US$ 4,279,471.22, los cuales fueron financiados al 100%, por el
BANCO.

Evaluaciones
Evaluación de la UES de PMR y lecciones aprendidas (componente iii: Elaboración de códigos y
vulnerabilidad de obras, fondos BIRF4420-DO.

Actividades bajo responsabilidad de la UES de PMR pero a cargo de otro ejecutor. Tal ha sido el caso de las
actividades de "elaboración de códigos y vulnerabilidad de Obras" a cargo de la DGRS en SEOPC, en donde
la iniciativa se ha cedido al eventual ejecutor, con la pérdida del "know how" desarrollado por la UES de
PMR y las limitaciones en la gestión ejecutiva, el control y el seguimiento.

La UES de PMR cumplió satisfactoriamente con              el procedimiento de selección del personal, bajo las
normas establecidas para estos fines por el banco.

El BIRF no aceptó un coordinador de componente como sí existía en los otros tres a cargo del BID, esto sin
duda alguna afectó al componente iii, que fue recargado al Coordinador Ejecutivo, quién tenía que manejar
una UES "sombrilla", con más de 40 actividades diferentes en las que participaban otras Secretarías de
Estado y más de 10 Instituciones Autónomas o Semiautónomas, incluyendo actividades compartidas con
otras UES pero bajo la responsabilidad de la UES de PMR.

B.- DEL GOBIERNO DE LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA GRD
En lo que respecta al componente iii con fondos del BIRF, la UES de PMR recibió el apoyo de la CCP y del
STP cuando fue requerido y con esta finalidad. El GRD dispuso de un fondo para facilitar la gestión de la
UES la UES de PMR, ascendente a RD$ 3,158,698.50 equivalentes a US$ 89,597.75.

C.- DEL BANCO
Los procedimientos de aprobación de actividades, las no objeciones y la confirmación de aperturas de cartas
de crédito, tomaron mucho tiempo, lo cual afectó la celeridad del proceso de ejecución.




                                                       - 41 -

SECCION VI
COMPONENTES REALIZADOS POR SEOPC

Alcances originales: Originalmente se tenia previsto reconstruir 23 puentes 16 en una primera fase y 7 en
una segunda fase; Además de evaluar y rehabilitar 242.30 Km, de Carreteras contempladas en 7 tramos y
distribuidos en 5 grupos. Luego de una evaluación detallada de los daños ocasionados por el Huracán
Georges, se determino que los puentes a construir serian 16; 13 en una primera fase y 3 en una segunda fase.

Alcances modificados: Al momento iniciar el plan de emergencia para restituir él trafico a las comunidades
que quedaron aisladas, no había disponibilidad de fondos, porque el préstamo 4420 - DO no estaba ratificado
por el Congreso Nacional y al no estar en vigencia, no se podía realizar ningún desembolso, por lo que la
SEOPC, solicito al banco de un préstamo de los fondos disponibles del préstamo 4127-DO, que estaba
siendo ejecutado por la SEOPC, para proceder con el inicio de las actividades de emergencia y el banco
autorizo que se realizaran dichas contrataciones con contratistas que estaban realizando obras para la
SEOPC y que dichos contratos fuesen consignados como addendum de los contratos en ejecución (obviando
las licitaciones) en virtud de solventar la emergencia.

Al momento de entrar en vigencia el préstamo y disponer de fondos propios se trato de devolver los fondos
tomados al 4127 D -O, pero el banco señala que los reglamentos no permiten realizar transferencia de un
préstamo a otro, por lo que el banco recomendó que los 13 puentes de la primera fase quedaran bajo el
financiamiento del préstamo 4127-DO y que como compensación el préstamo 4420-DO pasara a financiar la
reconstrucción de la Carretera Sabana Grande de Boya Doña Maria, con una longitud de 18.51 Km.

El componente de carreteras y puentes concluyo con variaciones en las metas originales, pues la longitud
total de carreteras se redujo de 242.30 km, a 160.36 km, contemplados en 7 tramos.
La longitud final de los puentes fue de 276.88 ml, incluyendo los (52.00 ml) de los 2 puentes, (Arroyo
Carpintero y Santiago) contemplados en el préstamo 4127 D-O, que pasaron a ser financiados por el
préstamo 4420 D-O, pues por problemas con la ejecución de los puentes Las Placetas y Benito Moncion, los
cuales solo dispusieron de recursos parciales del préstamo y estos dos puentes serán concluidos con fondos
de contrapartida.

Cumplimiento de objetivos: Actualmente el cumplimiento no será satisfactorio, pues algunas de las obras
no serán concluidas al 100% dentro de la fecha de vigencia del préstamo como fueron programadas, ya que
en el proceso de ejecución se determino que los alcances planteados originalmente para determinadas obras
debían ser modificados, produciéndose un incremento en los costos que excedían el monto del préstamo, por
lo que la SEOPC se vio en la necesidad de reducir los alcances para mantenerse dentro de los limites
presupuestarios, realizando la menor adición de recursos fuera del financiamiento para continuar con la
ejecución de las obras inconclusas (ver cuadro situación obras)

Situación financiera original: El monto consignado en el préstamo para la Rehabilitación del componente
Puentes y Carreteras dañados ascendía a US$ 28,285,700.00, de los cuales el 70%, o sea US$19,800,000.00
serian    financiados por el BIRF. Por la categoría B.1 del préstamo y el GOB. el 30%; o sea
US$8,485,700.00 como aporte de contrapartida.

Situación financiera modificada: El monto consignado en el préstamo            para la   Rehabilitación del
Componente Puentes y Carreteras dañados fue modificado para suplir los incrementos en los insumos,
partidas adicionales y los costos que se produjeron por las múltiples extensiones de los servicios de las
firmas supervisoras durante el periodo de ejecución del proyecto, ascendió a US$ 37,236,805.23, lo que



                                                      - 42 -

represento un incremento de US$ 8,951,105.23; de los cuales US$ 24,132,948.15 fueron financiados por el
BIRF. y US$ 13,103,857.08 como contrapartida.

Evaluación de la UES: La Unidad Ejecutora Sectorial UES establecida en la Secretaria de Estado de Obras
Publicas y Comunicaciones SEOPC para dar seguimiento durante el desarrollo del proyecto, esta bajo la
responsabilidad de un Asesor del Secretario de Estado, a quien responde directamente. Este Asesor es
también el responsable de todos los Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo, el cual cuenta con dos equipos de
apoyo; un equipo Técnico que tiene la responsabilidad de realizar las actividades concernientes a licitaciones,
las cuales fueron realizadas dentro de las fechas establecidas, al igual que las contrataciones de las obras, lo
cual se cumplió satisfactoriamente según los objetivos trazados respecto a dichos procesos; Los cuales se
llevaron a cabo según los lineamientos establecidos por el banco para este tipo de proyecto, por lo cual los
fondos asignados a esta UES fueron comprometidos acorde con la programación, lo que permitió a la UES
acceder a parte de los fondos consignados en el renglón si asignación especifica, los cuales debían ser
comprometidos para una fecha determinada y también tiene bajo su responsabilidad la de supervisar en
coordinación con las consultoras privadas contratadas para dar seguimiento a los procesos de ejecución de
todas las obras; además cuentan con una unidad financiera DARE Dirección de Administración de Recursos
Externos, la cual tiene por encomienda todos los aspectos relacionados con el manejo de los recursos
externos.

B.- DEL GOBIERNO DE LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA GRD
La unidad ejecutora de la SEOPC se manejo dentro de los limites que le impuso la falta periódica de
recursos de contrapartida, durante la ejecución del proyecto.

C.- DEL BANCO
Las relaciones de la UES con el Banco en el manejo de los procedimientos para las licitaciones de las obras y
los  tramites para las no objeciones estuvieron enmarcadas dentro de los parámetros establecidos; al igual
que en los procesos de ejecución de las obras.



SECCION VII
COMPONENTES REALIZADOS POR CCP

Financiación de los servicios de consultoría incluidos los costos de las firmas para el manejo del programa.

Comisión Coordinadora del Programa CCP
Con el objetivo de apoyar la implementación del proyecto se creó una unidad dentro del Secretariado Técnico
de la Presidencia con equipo, personal y otra estructura y organización a satisfacción del Banco que
coordinaría la implementación del proyecto

Dentro de las atribuciones asignadas a esta Comisión Coordinadora del Programa se le designó para
contratar los servicios de gerencia del Proyecto para que la apoye en la administración financiera, en el
monitoreo de las adquisiciones y en el apoyo de las entidades sectoriales. Por esta razón se le asignó
originalmente de financiamiento del Banco:

    US$ 1,500,000.00 a la CCP; US$ 891,603.00 para la firma Cogerenciadora y US$ 262,400.00 para las
    Auditorias, para un monto total de US$ 2,654,003.00. Este financiamiento no requería de contrapartida.




                                                      - 43 -

El proyecto originalmente tenia fecha de cierre el 31 de enero del 2002, pero se han producido 4 extensiones.
La primera extensión fue hasta el 31 de julio del 2002, y la segunda extensión o adenddum el 15 de enero del
2003, una tercera extensión o hasta el 15 de mayo de del 2003 y la ultima extensión hasta el 30 de junio del
2003

La unidad ejecutora de este componente, la CCP, ha comprometido en contratos para: Coordinación general,
enlace, analista financiero, diseño de software para el control financiero del proyecto, manual de
procedimientos y equipos para el monitoreo físico del proyecto US$ 473,405.73; con la firma Cogerenciadora
Typsa, US$ 1,617,979.80; y con la firma auditora, PKF, US$ 257,503.00, para un total de US$
2,348,388.53.

La CCP - STP, realizo la gestión para dotar de los fondos de contrapartida requeridos por las UES de CDE,
INDRHI, PMR y en el caso particular de la SEOPC, los recursos obtenidos en determinado momento no
llegaron a ser aplicados acorde con las necesidades del préstamo, por haber sido consignados de manera
global a la institución y no por partidas como debió ser en este caso.

A.- DE LA CCP:
La CCP debió contar con un fondo rotativo que le permitiera hacer frente a los requerimientos a tiempo de
los recursos de contrapartida, lo que hubiese facilitado la gestión y evitado la prolongación del periodo de
ejecución de las obras.

B.- DEL GOBIERNO DE LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA GRD
La CCP - STP, realizo la gestión para dotar de los fondos de contrapartida requeridos por las UES de CDE,
INDRHI, PMR y en el caso particular de la SEOPC, los recursos obtenidos en determinado momento no
llegaron a ser aplicados acorde con las necesidades del préstamo, por haber sido consignados de manera
global a la institución y no por partidas como debió ser en este caso.

La existencia temporal de la CCP, no permitirá continuar con el seguimiento de continuidad en las
operaciones de los proyectos concluidos, lo que podría presentar un impasse en el caso de la realización de
una evaluación ex post.

C.- DEL BANCO
La falta de un funcionario local del Banco, con poder de decisión respecto a los tramites de rutina y el tener
que depender de una relación a distancia con la sede en Washington, restaron eficiencia al proceso y la
perdida de     una relación mas estrecha      entre la CCP y las UES, lo que contribuyo a retrasar los
procedimientos de aprobación, las no objeciones y la confirmación de cartas de crédito, lo cual afecto la
celeridad del proceso de ejecución

Durante la gestión no se siguió un procedimiento estandarizado en el manejo de las relaciones Banco, UES y
CCP, donde la CCP, mantuviera su papel como unidad coordinadora.

El Banco fue receptivo al bajar el monto de las solicitudes de desembolsos, de ÚS$ 100 mil, a US$ 50 mil, lo
que facilito el proceso de pago para los contratistas, vía las UES responsables.

El Banco procedió a retener los fondos de todas las UES como medida de presión, en vista de los atrasos en
los pagos de los fondos de contrapartida correspondientes a la SEOPC, lo que afecto significativamente el
proceso de pago y la ejecución de las obras en un periodo de tres meses.




                                                       - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) -- Hurricane Georges
Emergency Program


The IDB-financed Hurricane Georges Emergency Program was approved on December 2, 1998. Total
project cost was estimated at US$117 million, of which IDB was expected to finance close to 90 percent, or
a total of US$105 million. The overall project development objective was to assist the Dominican Republic
in the reconstruction of the infrastructure damaged or destroyed by Hurricane Georges, and in the
sustainable recovery of the national economy, emphasizing support to the most vulnerable population and
disaster mitigation with adequate civil society participation. Project components accordingly included:

     a. Reconstruction and rehabilitation of social and productive infrastructure, including energy, water
         supply, resettlement of high risk population at el Cayucal, and designs to repair the Sabana Yegua
         Dam.

    b. Assistance to low income communities most affected by the disaster through financing of small
         works identified through a participatory process;

     c. Support to recurrent social expenditures, complementing the fast-disbursing component included
         in the World Bank-financed project; and

    d. Preparation and implementation of a Disaster Risk Management Sub-program in coordination
         with the World Bank emergency operation.

Project Implementation.       The project also suffered a significant delay in obtaining congressional
approval. The latter was only given on June 24, 1999, almost seven months after approval by the IDB, and
over a month after it had been given to the Bank-financed emergency operation. The project became
effective two months later. Despite initial delays, 95 percent of the loan had been disbursed and 95 percent
of physical targets had been completed by June 2003. To reach these levels, however, the original loan
closing date was extended several times. Current closing date is June 2004.

The component to support recurrent social expenditures, for which US$30 million (28.6 percent of total
loan amount) had been allocated, was fully disbursed in 1999.

Overall, the IDB supervision team considers that the project has helped the Government effectively to
rebuild and rehabilitate the infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Georges; to increase national capacity for
disaster risk management, environmental management, and regional planning; and to promote public
awareness and participation as well as institutional development.

Specifically under the Disaster Risk Management Sub-Program, as agreed between the IDB, the World
Bank and the Government, the project has financed three of its four components. These components were:

   l Increasing public awareness and education on disaster risk.               Its main activities included
         implementing a national educational campaign on disaster risk, improving the course on safety at
         schools (Curso de Seguridad Escolar, or CUSE in Spanish), establishing a management system
         for emergency relief supplies and donations, and carrying out yearly disaster emergency
         simulations.




                                                     - 45 -

l Improving spatial / regional planning and environmental and natural resources management,
  including activities such as an assessment of spatial / regional planning capacity in the country,
  development and implementation of action plans to establish regional planning incorporating
  environmental and disaster risk management issues, and development of environmental assessment
  capacity at the national and local level through training of trainers and training on environmental
  and natural resource management, and conducting community-driven environmental assessments.

l Establishing the national system for disaster risk management, which included activities such as
  design of disaster risk management training modules; conducting training of trainers and delivering
  training to staff of concerned agencies; establishing a national system for effective emergency
  information dissemination, establishing an Emergency Operations Center (Centro de Operaciones
  de Emergencia, or CODE in Spanish), designing and creating a National System for Disaster Risk
  Management; developing a national plan for early warning of emergencies, and establishing a
  system to assess disaster impacts.




                                             - 46 -

- 47 -

