Report No. PID11180
Project Name             Algeria Urban Natural Hazard Vulnerability (@)
Reduction Project
Region                   Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
Sector                   Urban vulnerability Reduction; Drainage;
Reforestation; Urban Housing; Other Environment
Project ID:              ALPE67605
Borrower                 Democratic People's Republic of Algeria
(Republique Algerienne Democratique et Populaire)
Executing Agency         Ministry of Interior
Implementing Agencies    Wilaya of Algiers, DGPC (Direction
Generale de la Protection Civile),
ONM (Office National de la Meteorologie), ANRH
(Agence Nationale de Ressource Hydrauliques),
Contact address:
Mr. Mohamed Smail
Directeur de Cellule de Coordination
et Suivi du Projet (CCSP)
Le projet de reduction de la
vulnerabilite urbaine
de la Wilaya d'Alger aux catastrophes
naturelles
Wilaya of Algiers
Boulevard Zirout Youcef
Tel: (213) 21 72 54 60
Fax: (213) 21 73 62 29
Email: casbah-alger-m.smail@caramail.com
Environmental Category B
Date PID Prepared        August 6, 2002
Tentative Projected
Appraisal / Negotiations Date:
June 15-23, 2002
Projected Board Date     August 8, 2002
I.      Country and Sector Background:
With over 30 million people, the Democratic People's Republic of
Algeria is the largest country in the Maghreb region. Rich deposits of
oil, gas and minerals make it also one of the leaders in natural
wealth. Up to the 1980s, Algeria boasted one of the best social and
physical infrastructure in the region, extensive social protection,
health, education and other services, and a large middle class.
Economic decline and political instability, accompanied by civil strife
in the past decade have eroded much of the existing infrastructure, and
created new set of problems for the Government. The country's



significant exposure to recurring natural hazards (e.g., floods,
earthquake, drought) emphasize the vulnerability of the population,
especially the poor, and of the built environment to repeated social,
financial and economic losses. By diverting financial resources from
regular development to recovery and reconstruction, natural disasters
are a serious threat to Government's effort to stabilize the country's
economic and social situation.
Sources of Vulnerability: Algerian urban environment, especially that
of the capital Algiers, is characterized by rapid urbanization and
environmental degradation. High urban densities, overcrowding in
dwellings, inadequate housing finance markets and a system of social
housing production, are all factors that influence the fast
deterioration rate of the building stock. With the lack of, or
inadequate maintenance of aged buildings in low-income neighborhoods
(such as the disaster-affected Bab El Oued in Algiers) and social
housing complexes, conditions are set in Algiers as well as other
Algerian cities for inherent urban vulnerability. Poor or non-existent
drainage, water supply, sanitation, sewer and solid waste disposal
systems, further enhance the deterioration and destabilization of
buildings and infrastructure. Deforestation, the elimination of
vegetation cover due to uncontrolled and often illegal development has
contributed to further erosion, thus increasing hazard exposure.
Current urban planning system, particularly its land-use aspects needs
to be improved. In addition, integration with environmental planning
and enforcement of building codes and zoning regulation need to be
strengthened.
Algeria's urbanization rate grew from 31 percent in 1966, to reach a
mark of 50 in 1993 and in 2000 approach 60 percent. Reportedly, the
cities attracted rural population due to country-wide economic
difficulties and on-going social strife. With over three million
inhabitants residing in the Capital's three Wilayas, Algiers is the
focal point of country's income revenue, and its social, cultural and
political center. In addition to flash flooding, land-and mud-sliding,
Algiers is also seismically-prone. If the anomalies of its urban
development continue unchecked, the vulnerability of Algiers will
continue to grow, jeopardizing the economic, social and cultural
development of the whole of the country.
Impacts of the Flood: On November 10, 2001, severe rains accompanied by
floods and mud-flows affected fourteen Wilayas in the northern part of
Algeria.   The disaster caused the loss of about 800 lives,
approximately 95 percent of which occurred in the capital of Algiers
(specifically in the Oued Koriche catchment area).    Damage and loss of
property were considerable across sectors, amounting to about US$400
million (according to the Government sources). In addition to the
unprecedented rains that in a short period of time pummeled a narrow
gorge leading to the sea, the main factors that aggravated the damage
of this disaster include massive (and often illegal) urban development,
often coupled with sub-standard constructions. Huge masses of land got
destabilized with the torrential rain, causing massive land slides.
Carrying everything in their path, these voluminous deposits of mud and
debris ended in the heavily built urban areas such as Bab El Oued of
Algiers - a natural mouth of a creek into the sea.
-2 -



The most seriously affected economic sector is housing, accounting for
about 33 percent (or more than US$133 million) of total damage,
followed by losses to the rain water sewage system, other public
infrastructure such as roads, bridges, ports, social infrastructure
(especially in the education sector) and agricultural facilities.
Environmental impacts of the disaster are also significant, as they
emphasized the ongoing process of barely checked environmental
degradation (including deforestation and denuding the hillocks of their
protective vegetation cover for urbanization purposes). As evidenced
by the losses to the housing sector, social cost of the disaster is
tremendous and cannot be fully calculated in financial terms, as it
includes (in addition to the loss of shelter) loss of livelihoods.
Especially affected are the low-income and informal participants in the
urban economy, fragile families and extended support networks,
resulting in the loss of productivity due to physical disability and
importantly, loss of the traditional urban, commercial and social
space.
In December 2001, Algerian Government formulated an official request to
the World Bank for assistance on rehabilitation and prevention works.
Bank missions of December 2001 and in February 2002, visited most of
the damaged sites in the Capital, and interacted both with the affected
population and the government representatives. Jointly with the
Algerian Government, the World Bank Team formulated an approach to the
proposed operation. This includes strengthening the national capacity
for overall disaster management, urban multi-hazardvulnerability in the
Wilaya of Algiers (including re-housing of population occupying
hazardous sites and buildings), and project management. Negotiations
were held between June 15 and 23, 2002, in Algiers.
II.     Objectives: The main objectives of the proposed operation
correspond to those expressed in the Government of Algeria's official
request for Bank assistance and include: (a) reduction of urban
vulnerability to natural hazards, including housing reconstruction in
the priority areas, such as the Massif Bouzareah in the Wilaya of
Algiers; and (b) strengthening of the national capacity for disaster
management (including both short term preparedness and response, and
the long-term hazard reduction measures).
III.    Rationale for Bank's Involvement:   The operation that would be
supported under the proposed project contributes directly to the
present Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which is being developed in
an interactive and participatory manner. An interim CAS note, which is
included as Schedule B of the Memorandum of the President (MOP) of this
project 9see p. 14, MOP), indicates that the key issues that Algeria
expects to be addressed by the program include urban low-income housing
and the problem of substandard, illegal residential construction, water
and unemployment. The social, economic and political consequences of
the November 2001 disaster and the high vulnerability of main cities
highlight the need to develop a strategic approach for urban hazard
reduction. The rationale for Bank's involvement should be viewed in the
context of Algeria's natural hazard vulnerability, its request to the
Bank for assistance, as well as the Bank's international experience in
this area. In the context of the volume of Bank's lending of
approximately US$8 billion for post-disaster reconstruction in the last
-3 -



20 years, and its focus on both reconstruction and disaster prevention
activities to minimize the likelihood of occurrence, wherever possible,
of natural and man-made disasters, the Bank is in an exceptional
position to assist the Government of Algeria to support the proposed
reconstruction and urban natural hazard vulnerability reduction
program.
IV.     Project Description and Costs:   The project would include the
following components: (1) Disaster management capacity building; (2)
Emergency physical works in the Wilaya of Algiers, and (3) Project
management.
COMPONENT 1: DISASTER MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING. This component is
developed on the foundations of and is complementary to, the ongoing
activities of the Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
and its efforts to reinforce the national capacity for hazard response.
It will finance (i) studies, (ii) training and (iii) the equipment.
Studies. This sub-component will fund several studies that have been
identified as essential for strengthening the approach to early warning
and emergency response, and long-term vulnerability reduction: (1) The
study of the integrated system for monitoring and early warning to
floods in the Wilaya of Algier; (2) Scientific study of the phenomenon
that led to the disaster of November 9/10, 2001; (3) Integrated study
of vulnerability reduction strategies of the Massif Bouzareah. (4) The
study of vulnerability to natural hazards in the Wilaya of Algiers
(outside of Bouzareah Massif);
Training. This sub-component will finance short- to medium-term
training of the personnel in the National Directorate for Civil
Protection (DGPC), National Meteorological Office (ONM) and the
National Agency for Water Resources (ANRH) to strengthen their capacity
to prepare for and manage future disasters. The Bank will do its utmost
to mobilize international trust funds for this activity. All long-term
training (aiming to attain higher degrees in a given field of study)
will be covered through the regular Government programs; and
Equipment. This project will also support the acquisition of equipment
necessary for capacity building of the institutions mentioned above,
including Doppler radar installations, accompanying instruments, as
well as computer hardware, software and modeling / simulation software
for ONM; and heavy equipment for search and rescue operations, as well
as computer hardware and software for DGPC and ANRH.
COMPONENT 2: EMERGENCY PHYSICAL WORKS. This component will finance the
emergency vulnerability reduction works, including: (a) storm water
management of the Oueds [wadi], construction of ten retention basins,
drainage and sewerage infrastructure; (b) reforestation; and (c) the
construction of 5,000 units of social housing for the families who lost
their dwellings in the disaster or occupy sites prone to natural
disasters. Best practice approaches in social assessment, resettlement
and rehabilitation, social inclusion and transparency, as agreed by the
Algerian Government and the Bank in the Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) will be followed.
-4-



i.      Infrastructure. Water works in the watershed of Oued Koriche will
include: (i) the construction of ten flood retention basins to reduce
the water levels; and (ii) storm water management in the Massif
Bouzareah, designed to control the floods.
ii.     Reforestation. The project will finance on-going campaign of
reforestation on public land and planting of fruit trees on private
land, to reduce water circulation, promote soil water retention
capacity, stabilize the soil and impede erosion.
iii.    Housing. This sub-component will finance the construction of
5,000 rental units in public housing complexes in Algiers, housing-
related infrastructure and the facilities for social and commercial
service provision. This new housing is intended for the people who were
lost their homes to the floods and mud-flows of November 9/10, 2001, or
those who live in project areas.
COMPONENT 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT. This component will finance the
implementation of the project, including the support to the Project
Coordinating Unit already established in the Wilaya of Algiers, and the
capacity of the implementing agencies. This component covers the cost
of technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles that will be
made available to the PCU. The Wilaya has appointed an experienced
Director for the PCU and will assign staff and provide the logistical
support (i.e., office space, staff salaries, equipment, vehicles and
recurrent costs) to the PCU. Expenditures for staff salaries and
recurrent incremental operating costs would be financed by the
Government with its own funds. In compliance with the environmental
Management Framework, appropriate resources fro training, technical
assistance and equipment are included in this component's budget to
ensure sound environmental management of the project.
V.      Financing:   The total cost of the proposed project is about
US$125 million, out of which US$88.45 million will be IBRD financing.
A four-year-long Emergency Recovery Loan would include the following
components: (a) Capacity building for hazard reduction; (b) Emergency
physical works; and (d) Project management.
VI.     Implementation:   The proposed project is processed according to
the Emergency Recovery Loan procedures, and will be implemented over a
period of four, rather that the usual three, years. This duration of
project implementation was obtained in order to: (a) start project
implementation as a matter of priority because of high vulnerability of
the urban watersheds in the Wilaya of Algiers to natural hazards; (b)
initiate and complete essential urban hazard reduction studies, as well
as the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure and housing; and (c)
attain project development objectives in the given implementation
period.
The Ministry of the Interior (MoI) will provide general policy guidance
and coordination among the several agencies charged with implementing
this project. MoI has already established an Inter-ministerial
Committee (IMC), chaired by the Minister of the Interior or his
alternate, which will include the representatives of the ministries of
finance, housing and urban development, agriculture and forests, public
- 5 -



works, water resources ad transport, as well as those of the Wilaya of
Algiers and the ANRH. IMC's main function is to ensure strategic
guidance, coordination of work different implementing agencies and to
facilitate the work of implementing agencies. Given the nature of the
project and vulnerability reduction that will take place through
resettlement, an Ad Hoc Committee on Resettlement will also be
established.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), was established within the Wilaya of
Algiers to provide the necessary technical assistance to implementing
agencies, specifically the Wilaya of Algiers, ANRH, DGPC, and ONM.
Additionally, principal duties of the PMU will be to ensure that the
project is being implemented according to the Bank guidelines,
especially its financial monitoring reporting, procurement, as well as
environmental and social development requirements; financial and
quality audit; and to maintain the reporting arrangement with the World
Bank. In addition to the PMU Director, who will report directly to the
Wali, the staff of the PMU will include at a minimum specialists in
social development and environmental management, procurement, financial
management and accounting, as well as urban planning / architecture and
engineering. The PMU capacity necessary for project coordination and
monitoring will be strengthened through staff training, as well as
through strengthening the technical (e.g., information technology with
and emphasis on database management and geographic information systems)
capacity of the Unit.
A committee to be chaired by the Wali of Algiers or his representative
will be established in the Wilaya of Algiers to coordinate, monitor and
control the implementation of project components for which the Wilaya
is the implementation agency.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was prepared by the Borrower to
include, inter alia, institutional arrangements for project
implementation; rules and procedures for preparation, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the project; environmental, social and
resettlement guidelines; Project Implementation Plan; Procurement plan,
rules and procedures; performance indicators for all components;
reporting modalities; and TORs for all major activities to be financed
by the project.
VII.    Sustainability: The purpose of the proposed project is to
establish sustainable capacity to reduce natural hazard exposure in the
capital city of Algiers and strengthen the national capacity to prevent
and manage disasters such as flood, land- and mud-slide, earthquake and
drought when they do happen. One of the main principles of the proposed
project is to reduce the inherent vulnerability of hazardous
neighborhoods in the areas of, or similar to, Massif Bouzareah, by
sensitizing the residents and building the capacity of local government
bodies to enforce land-use and building code application, and
strengthen risk-based urban development planning process.
VIII.   Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector:    In
the past decade, the Bank supported recovery efforts following two
deadly earthquakes in Algeria, the 1994 Mascara and the 1999 Ain
Temouchent. In both cases, the Government and the Bank worked jointly
- 6 -



to respond to the immediate reconstruction and recovery needs,
especially in restoring housing and public infrastructure assets. The
lessons learned from these two projects and other international
experience indicate the need to simplify the procedures and to
accelerate implementation within the parameters of the project period.
IX.     Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI):   Not applicable.
X.      Environment Aspects (including any public consultation):    Within
the context of the proposed project environmental aspects =will be
addressed by developing an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) to
provide general guidance to address the environmental issues. Resources
fro capacity strengthening will be provided to the Environment
Inspection Agency (EIA) and the Conservation des forets. The
performance of the EIA will be regularly monitored and reviewed during
the mid-term Review. EMF was disclosed to the InfoShop and within the
country.
In respect to social aspects, providing new housing for those who lost
their homes is one of the objectives of the project. All involuntary
resettlement will comply with the Resettlement policy Framework ( RFP -
which in turn complies with the OP4.12) and has been prepared by the
Borrower. RFP adheres to all relevant Algerian laws while ensuring
compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies 9OP/BP4.12). The RFP
includes; (a) the carrying out of social assessment and public
consultations; (b) the preparation of resettlement action plan (RAP);
and (c) the implementation of the RAP and the disclosure of beneficiary
lists. The process will follow Algerian Executive Decree 92-48 on the
allocation of social housing. Initial surveys and estimates of
potential beneficiaries have already been conducted by the Wilaya of
Algiers and will be confirmed by an extensive social assessment. The
RFP states that no demolition will occur before new housing is ready
for those who qualify for re-housing in new units.
Regarding information disclosure and transparency, the Wilaya of
Algiers agreed to ensure information dissemination through its
Information and Documentation Center. The Wilaya plans to further the
communication efforts through wider information dissemination campaigns
(e.g., web-sites, community consultations, media). Any complaints will
be handled by "Listening Units" set up by the Wilaya immediately after
the floods.
XI.     Contact Point:
Task Team Leader:
Jelena Pantelic
Telephone 202 473 9377
jepantelic@worldbank.org
XII.     For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:              (202) 458-5454
-7 -



Fax:                    (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Alger, Tipaza, Chlef, Tiaret, Boumerdes, Oran, Tizi-Ouzou, Tlemcen, Ain Temouchent,
Saida, Ain Defla, Mostaganem, Mascara and Relizane.
Including over 100 people unaccounted for and presumed dead.
The expected Board date to present the final document is the end of calendar year 2002.
Its functions are described in detail in the attached Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF) developed and adopted by the Algerian Government.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 16, 2002.
-8-



