RP1 05
Volume I
People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
Urban Natural Hazard
Vulnerability Reduction Project
Financed with the support of the World Bank
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
FOR PEOPLE AFFECTED BY THE NOVEMBER 10TH, 2001 FLOODS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
DATE: June 2002
FILE COPY
1



Description of the Project
1.    Under the proposed Project the Bank will assist the Borrower to (i) strengthen its
national capacity for disaster management, and (ii) reduce urban vulnerability to natural
hazards. In order to achieve these objectives, the Project shall have the following
components:
Component 1: Strengthening the national capacity for disaster management
through:
(a) Developing an integrated early warning system;
(b) Carrying out a study of the events leading to the floods;
(c) Carrying out a study of vulnerability reduction in the Bouzareah
catchment area;
(d) Carrying out a study of urban vulnerability of the Wilaya of Algiers;
and,
(e) Instituional strengthening the Borrower's Implementing Agencies
through the provision of goods, equipment, services and training to
support improved disaster management.
Component 2: Emergency physical works through:
(a) Building flood storage and conveyance structures in the Oued Koriche
catchment;
(b) Reconstruction of flood embankments and soil protection in the Massif
of Bouzareah catchment;
(c) Reforestation in the Massif Bouzareah catchment area ; and
(d) Construction of 5000 social rental housing units and ancillary facilities
to relocate families presently living in hazardous and vulnerable areas.
Component 3: Project Management
a) Short term consultancies and technical assistance to the Implementing
Agencies.
2



Resettlement Policy Framework
2.    Re-housing of affected people in the November 2001 floods and people currently
living under hazardous buildings, vulnerable to mud-flows, floods and earthquakes is one
of the main objectives of the Project. As re-housing also means resettlement, Bank's
safeguard policy on Involuntary Resettlement ( OP/BP 4.12) applies.
3.    To comply with the Bank's safeguard policies on involuntary resettlement
(OP/BP 4.12) in an emergency nature of this Project appraisal, the Algerian Gouvernment
has prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) to define all rules and procedures
related to the re-housing of affected people. The RPF defines relevant policies, Algerian
laws in effect and implementation arrangements, and presents the outlines of Resettiment
Action Plan (RAP) that would be needed during Projet implementation..
4.    RPF defines following steps for the preparation of the RAP;
STEP I Identification and minimization of the impacts: this step has mostly
been taken right after the floods in order to define the needs for re-housing and
assistance to the affected households;
STEP II Social assessement and public consultation: the Algerian authorities
need to conduct a social survey on the basis of transparent, equitable and efficient rules to
define the beneficiaries of the re-housing. Terms of Reference and the schedule will be
defined before January 2003; and,
STEP III Definition of the re-housing sites: Criteria for re-housing sites will be
established based on the assessment of: (i) terms and conditions of the resettlement; (ii)
the distance from the actual site and affected peoples work location; and, (iii) means of
transport and communal infrastructure ("equipements collectives"). A public consultation
will be conducted in order to define the preferences of affected peoples.
STEP IV Preparation and implementation of Resettlement Action Plans
(RAP): this includes; (i) A preleminary version of the RAP shall be available in July
2003 in accordance with the terms of reference established with the assistance of the
3



Bank; (ii) The RAP implementation process shall include the disclosure of the lists of the
beneficiaries of the 5,000 housing units to be financed under the Project. The process will
follow the Algerian Executive Decree 92-48 on allocation of social housing; (iii) an
implementation plan shall provide for the preparation and finalization of the RAP. This
implementation plan will be completed after the required technical studies of the selected
areas. The RPF also clarifies that no demolition of houses or facilities will occur before
new housing facilities are ready for the people who qualify for re-housing .
Eligibility Criteria and Prevention of Illegal Resettlement
5.    Eligibility criteria , procedures and modalities of the allocation of social rental
housing are defined in the Executive Decree 92-48.. Issues of particular concern
associated with re-housing include the mechanisms to prevent illegal new settlement on
the sites covered by the Project. Non-eligible people are those who moved to the sites
after the cut-off date of November 10th, 2001. Initial survey of the potential beneficiary
households has been already conducted by Wilaya of Algiers. This survey shall be
confirmed through an extensive social assessment and consultation. This will be done
through; (i) cross-checks between census data, water, power, gas, phone bills, school
registers and electoral registers ; (ii) teams of inspectors shall control eligibility and
addresses (according to the 98-42 decree) ; (iii) mobilization and sensitization of
neighborhood associations on the risks related to illegal opportunistic new housing
candidates ; and (iv) public disclosure of beneficiary lists, with recourse, appeal and
monitoring procedures.
Mechanisms of Consultation
6.    The local authorities shall conduct public consultations to enable affected people
to communicate their needs and expectations. Any complaint will be dealt with, inter alia,
by the «< Listening Units >> ( Cellules d'ecoute de la Wilaya) set up by the Wilaya
immediately after the floods, as a mech-anisms to communicate information, provide
services and other assistance to affected people.
4



