Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7139-AL
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Urban Natural Hazard Vulnerability Reduction  
in The Wilaya of Algiers Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 29, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7139-AL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 29, 2002, between the PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).  
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Peoples” means the peoples affected by the Floods; 
 
(b) 
“ANRH” and “Agence
Nationale
des
Ressources
Hydrauliques
”
mean 
the Borrower’s agency in charge of water works, established by Decree 81-167 of 
July 25 1981 as amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
“Banque d’Algérie” means the Borrower’s central bank, operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law 90-10 of April 14, 1990, and any successor thereto; 
 
(d) 
“BAD” and “Banque
Algérienne
de
Développement
”
mean the 
Borrower’s Algerian Development Bank established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Ordinance No 71-47, dated June 30, 1971, and any successor thereto;  
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“CCSP” and “Cellule
de
Coordination
et
de
Suivi
du
Projet
”
mean the 
Project coordination unit to be established and therafter maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“DGPC” and “Direction
Générale
de
la
Protection
Civile
”
mean the 
Directorate of Civil Protection within the Ministry of Interior and Local Collectivities and 
any successor thereto;  
 
(g) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest period; 
 
(h) 
“EMF” and “Environmental Management Framework” mean the 
environmental management framework, referred to in paragraph 1 (h) of Schedule 4 
defining the set of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, 
adopted by the Borrower on 26 May 2002, and to be taken during Project implementation 
to eliminate, offset or reduce to acceptable levels any adverse environmental impacts or 
enhance positive impacts of the Project activities, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior approval; 
 
(i) 
“Floods” means the floods that took place in November 2001 in the 
Wilaya (as this term is hereinafter defined) of Algiers; 
 
(j) 
“FMR” means the Financial Monitoring Report to be prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(k) 
“Implementing Agency” means any of DGPC, ANRH, NMO and the 
Wilaya of Algiers, and “Implementing Agencies” means more than one Implementing 
Agency; 
 
(l) 
“Inspectorate of the Environment” means the inspectorate in charge of 
environmental protection in the territory of the Wilaya of Algiers and established by the 
Ministry of Environment and Land Planning and referred to in Schedule 4 paragraph 1 (j) 
to this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“ISC” means the Interministerial Steering Committee established by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule of said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“NMO” means the Borrower’s National Meteorological Office 
established by the Decree 98-258 of August 25, 1998 and any successor thereto;  
 
(p) 
“Office of Conservation of Forests” means an office in charge of the 
management and conservation of the forests in the territory of the Wilaya of Algiers and 
established by the Ministry of Agriculture and any successor thereto, and referred to in 
Schedule 4 paragraph 1 (j) to this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Project Area” means the Flood-affected areas of the Wilaya of Algiers; 
 
(r) 
“PIM” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Manual, a manual 
referred to in Schedule 4 Para 1 (d) to this Agreement as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the Borrower and the Bank’s prior approval; 
 
(s) 
“RPF” and “Resettlement Policy Framework” mean the Borrower’s 
policy framework referred to in Para 1 (f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement defining 
resettlement principles and objectives, institutional arrangements, and design criteria to 
be applied to resettlement of any Project Affected Peoples under the Project, dated 
May 26, 2002, and as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
approval; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(u) 
“Wali” means the governor of a Wilaya as this term is hereinafter 
defined; and 
 
(v) 
“Wilaya” means a local collectivity, organized as administrative unit of 
the Borrower’s Government pursuant to the Borrower’s Law 90-09 dated April 7, 1990 
related to the Wilaya, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty eight 
million four hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($88,450,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, services and training required for the Project and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d’Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end-fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said front-end-fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at the rate of: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85) per annum from the date on which such 
charges commence to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions, to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. Interest, commitments and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.  
 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installment 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the 
eleventh (11
t
h
)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty fourth (24
th
)
Interest Payable Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment, except the last one shall be equal to one fourteenth (1/14
th
)
of said 
Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding 
amount of said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after April 15, 2018, the Borrower shall also 
pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occuring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change in the interest 
rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the loan from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any Conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions of the Conversion Guidelines 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;  
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) 
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the effective date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Immeuble Maurétania 
Place de Pérou 
Algiers 16000 
 
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria  
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINPLAN 
 67073 
 
  (213) 
21 
736440 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI); or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
64145 
(MCI) 
    
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Algiers, Algeria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
 
By /s/ Abdelhak Bedjaoui 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures  
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
 
6,300,000 
100% of foreign 
 expenditures, 
100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); and 
70% of expenditures for 
 
other locally procured  
goods 
 
(2) Works: 
 
 
 
(a)  Housing 
 
 
60,500,000 
80% of expenditures 
 
(b)  other works 
 
 
14,500,000 
60% of expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultant’s Services 
3,756,000
 
80% of local expenditures 
 
for services of consultants 
 
domiciled within the 
 
territory of the Borrower 
 
and 62% of foreign 
 
expenditures for services 
 
of
consultants not 
 
domiciled within the 
 
territory of the Borrower 
 
(4) 
Training 
 
210,000 
80%  for training in  
 
local expenditures and 
 
100%
of  foreign 
 
expenditures for training 
 
abroad. 
 
(5) 
Front-end-fee 
884,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
Page  13
-
12
-
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures  
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(6) Unallocated 
2,299,500
TOTAL  
88,450,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: 
 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods, services and works supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for 
goods, works and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding three million 
($3,000,000), may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after June 1, 2002; 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for expenditures under: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $500,000; (c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (d) services provided by individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
per contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
1. 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to respond to the Floods by: 
(i) strengthening its national capacity for disaster management; and (ii) reducing urban 
vulnerability to natural hazards. 
 
2. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Disaster Management Capacity Building
(a) 
strengthening the capacities of NMO, ANRH, and NDCP in the area of 
disaster management through the provision of goods, consultants’ services and training; 
 
(b) 
developing an integrated early warning system; 
 
(c) 
carrying out a study of the meteorological events that have led to the 
Floods; 
 
(d) 
carrying out an integrated study of vulnerability reduction strategy of the 
Bouzareah massif; and 
 
(e) 
carrying out a study of urban vulnerability reduction of the Wilaya of 
Algiers outside the Massif of Bouzareah. 
 
Part B
:
Emergency Physical Works
(a) 
building flood storage basins and drainage structures in the Oued 
Koriche watershed; 
 
(b) 
reconstruction of embankments and slopes protection in the Bouzareah 
massif ; 
 
(c) 
reforestation in the Massif of Bouzareah; and 
 
(d) 
construction of housing and other social and cultural facilities for the 
resettlement of Affected Peoples. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part C
:
Project Management
Facilitating the implementation and management of Project activities by CCSP 
and Implementing Agencies through the provision of technical advisory services, training 
and the acquisition of goods.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2006. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph (c) below. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded 
Page  17
-
16
-
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and 
paragraph (c) below. 
 
(c)
 
contracts of goods and works procured under the National Competitive 
Bidding procedure shall comply with the following: 
 
(i) 
Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the 
Guidelines who propose to provide goods produced in or 
services supplied from any such country shall be eligible to bid 
for such contracts. 
 
(ii) 
Tenders will be advertised with no less that thirty (30) days for 
bid preparation. 
 
(iii) 
Government owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they 
are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not selected or hired by the supervising 
or reporting authority, and will be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iv) 
Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail. 
 
(v) 
Bids shall be opened in public. The time for the bid opening 
shall be the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or 
promptly thereafter. 
 
(vi) 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed to submit two envelopes 
provided the two envelopes are opened at the same time. 
 
(vii) 
Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria 
disclosed in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms, 
and no provision for preferential treatment for national 
companies shall be applied. 
 
(viii) 
The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated responsive bid, and no negotiation shall take 
place.
 
2. International/National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
Page  18
-
17
-
3. Small 
Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for the procurement of goods and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; (ii) each contract for the procurement of works and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (iii) the first two contracts for the 
procurement of works under Part C.1 of this Section, and estimated to cost less than 
$500,000; (iv) the first two contracts procured under Part C.2 of this Section, and (v) the 
first two contracts procured under Part C.3 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
Page  19
-
18
-
revised in September 1997 and in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, con
sultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Quality-Based 
Selection
Services for the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be procured under contract awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of a routine nature, including audits and engineering design of simple 
works the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,500,000 may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
 
Page  20
-
19
-
2. Prior 
Review
(
a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part D.2 (a) and (b) of this Section, 
prior review and approval by the Bank of terms of reference shall be required to award 
any contract for consultant services.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Schedule
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, all in accordance with the conditions, terms, procedures and 
timetable set forth in the Project Implementation Manual: 
 
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain during the life of the Project an Inter-
ministerial Steering Committee, under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Interior and 
Local Collectivities, and including representatives of: (i) the Ministry of Finance; (ii) the 
Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning; (iii) the Ministry of Water Resources; (iv) the 
Ministry of Environment and Planning; (v) the Ministry of Agriculture; (vi) the Ministry 
of Transportation; and (vii) Wilaya of Algiers to oversee the implementation of the 
Project and advise the CCSP on Project implementation issues; 
 
(b) 
establish and thereafter maintain within the Wilaya of Algiers a CCSP 
with staffing, organization and adequate resources, headed by a Coordinator with rank, 
qualifications, authority and responsibilities, all under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, to: (i) coordinate the implementation of Project activities by all Implementing 
Agencies, (ii) assist Implementing Agencies through technical advices on matters related 
to Project implementation, including procurement and disbursement; and (iii) report on 
the financial and technical aspects of Project implementation. 
 
(c) 
without limitations or restrictions upon paragraph 1 (a) above, the 
Borrower shall cause: (i) the NMO, DGPC and ANRH to carry out all activities under 
Part A (a) of the Project; (ii) the NMO to carry out all activities under Part A (b) and (c) 
of the Project; and (iii) the Wilaya of Algiers to carry out activities under Part A (d) and 
(e), Part B of the Project and Part C of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual which shall, inter alia, describe the following: (i) Project 
description and activities; (ii) institutional arrangements for Project implementation, 
including description of the status of Implementing Agencies, their roles, responsibilities 
and functions with respect to Project implementation and monitoring; (iii) procurement 
procedures including the Borrower’s model bidding documents prepared in accordance 
with the Guidelines and submitted to prior review and non-objection of the Bank; such 
model documents shall be used for all procurement of goods and works; 
(iv) disbursement procedures, (v) financial management mechanisms and procedures; 
(vi) social, environmental, resettlement and re-housing guidelines applicable to Project 
activities consistent with the EMF and the RPF; (vii) Project Implementation Plan 
detailing timeline of key activities and procurement plans; (viii) performance indicators 
for all components; (ix) information disclosure; and (x) outline terms of reference for all 
major activities to be financed under the Project. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
(e) 
The Borrower shall not amend or waive, except as otherwise agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank, any provision of the PIM. 
 
(f) 
The Borrower shall, with respect to Part B (d) of the Project, ensure: 
 
(i) 
that all land required for the implementation of Part B (d) of the 
Project will be acquired in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions set forth in the RPF, and all peoples affected by the 
acquisition of such land will be resettled in accordance with the 
provisions of the RPF satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
that activities of such resettlement shall be prepared by 
incorporating the principles, rules and procedures set forth in the 
RPF, including those on information disclosure; and 
 
(iii) 
that such resettlement activities shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval on a timely manner in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the RPF. 
 
(g) 
The Borrower shall , with respect to Part B (a), (b) and (c) of the Project, 
ensure that no works will be commenced unless and until a resettlement plan has been so 
approved by the Bank in accordance with the terms, conditions and procedures set forth 
in the RPF; and 
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions and guidelines described in the Environmental Management Framework and, 
without any limitation thereto, shall take timely action to ensure that any adverse 
environmental impact of the Project is effectively mitigated in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, including information disclosure and consultation as appropriate. 
 
(i) 
The Borrower shall not amend, modify or otherwise waive any provision 
of the EMF unless the Bank so agrees. 
 
(j) 
Without limitations or restrictions upon Paragraph (h) above, the 
Borrower shall cause: (i) the CCSP to provide the Inspectorate of the Environment and 
the Office of Conservation of Forests with equipment under Part C of the Project to allow 
them to carry out their activities as described in the EMF; and (ii) the Wilaya of Algiers 
to provide training and technical assistance to the Inspectorate of the Environment and 
the Office of Conservation of Forests under Part A (d) of the Project to allow them to 
carry out their activities as described in the EMF. 
 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank and 
Page  23
-
22
-
the terms of the PIM, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievements 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) 
and (4), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  25
-
24
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  26
-
25
-
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
