Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6220 
Operation Name 
Urban Transport Sector DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General transportation sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P115659 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Morocco 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry of Interior 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat 
Morocco 
Tel: (212-537) 677-266    Fax: (212-537) 677-530 
Ministry of Interior 
Rabat 
Morocco 
Tel: (212 537) 76 16 90  Fax: (212537) 76 06 67 
Date PID Prepared 
December 1, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 13, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
March 3, 2011 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In recent years, Morocco has carried out sound macroeconomic policies and continued to sustain the 
momentum of structural reforms.
 As a result, economic growth has been high averaging 5.1 percent over 
2001-09, almost twice the average rate of the 1990s (2.8 percent). The good growth performance has 
allowed GDP per capita to almost double over the last decade to reach US$2,890 in 2009. Furthermore, 
sound fiscal policies has led to the consolidation of public finances, allowing the budget to run surpluses 
in 2007 and 2008 (averaging 0.3 percent of GDP) and to withstand well in 2009 the impact of the global 
crisis, with a manageable budget deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP. The Government has also adopted a 
prudent debt strategy and central government debt has steadily declined to 46.9 percent of GDP in 2009 
from 62 percent in 2005.  In addition, the monetary authorities have pursued appropriate monetary policy 
geared toward maintaining low and stable inflation (an average of 2.2 percent since 2005) and enhanced 
financial sector supervision.  Furthermore, the country has sought to deepen its integration into the world 
economy through the signing of many Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) and with the recent “Advanced 
Status” awarded by the EU. Overall, these efforts have led to a stable macroeconomic stance, stronger 
public finances, and a sound financial sector. 
 
The growth of cities and the accompanying social and economic changes are essential features of 
Morocco’s current development process. 
The urban population is 17.7 million today (about 55% of the 
total population) and it is projected to grow to 27 million in 2025 (70%). At the same time, the spatial 
structure of the cities is changing much. With the relocation of many economic activities outside the city 
centers, t
he population’s legitimate demand for lower density residential areas, and the greater autonomy 
of younger households, Moroccan cities are spreading rapidly. This, together with the increase in 
motorization and societal changes such as women’s growing participation in labor markets, has had 
drastic consequences on the demand for urban transport. For example, trip rates have increased from 
about 1.6 per person and per day to 2.9 in Casablanca between 1975 and 2004 (a total of 10.5 million 
Page  2
2
daily trips in 2004 compared to 3.3 million in 1975). Trips have also become much longer. This has put 
enormous pressure on the urban transport systems of Morocco’s main cities. 
 
Existing systems are not well suited, however, to handle rapidly increasing demand.
 Morocco’s urban 
transport sector is characterized by major institutional, regulatory, and operational weaknesses, a shortage 
of human resources, and a lack of long term strategic vision at the local level. As a result, public transport 
systems perform poorly and are not responsive to the changing demands of the population. The road 
infrastructure and the management of traffic are also lagging behind, and congestion is increasing fast, 
particularly in Casablanca, the economic capital, where it is now perceived as a threat to the city’s 
competitiveness and economic growth prospects. Air quality has deteriorated sharply, in great part due to 
transport, and some key social needs are not adequately addressed. 
 
Improving urban transport has become a key priority for Morocco’s central and local governments.
 
The Central Government has thus embarked on a broad program of reforms aimed at systematically 
addressing sector issues, particularly the structural issues that are at the core of the current inefficiencies. 
This program foc
uses on three main goals: (i) improving the sector’s governance; (ii) enhancing the 
efficiency and increasing the supply of urban transport services and infrastructure; and (iii) improving the 
sector’s environmental and social sustainability. This program was designed with support from the Bank, 
which, at Government’s request, has been involved in the sector since 2006 through an in-depth 
relationship focused on technical support, assistance in capacity building, and transferring best practices 
and lessons of experience from other middle income countries. In this context, the Government has 
requested the Bank to provide a Development Policy Loan (DPL) to support the implementation of the 
reforms program. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed DPL has been designed to provide budget and technical support for the implementation 
of the Government’s program for the reform of the urban transport sector. 
Its higher-level objective is 
to improve the efficiency of urban transport in large cities, ultimately promoting economic growth, social 
development, and quality of life in a sustainable way for Morocco’s urban citizens. The proposed DPL 
has been developed with the Government in close coordination with its comprehensive reform program so 
as to provide full ownership of process, actions and outcomes, and ensure that it is anchored in a 
satisfactory medium term change framework. It is focused on (i) actions which address essential structural 
weaknesses in the sector particularly in its institutional framework, (ii) key implementation measures, 
particularly in the country’s two largest urban areas, Casablanca and Rabat-Sale-Temara, and (iii) the 
clarification and adoption of strategies in a key new subject, the accessibility of persons with reduced 
mobility. 
 
The prior actions envisaged for the DPL are summarized below
:
Improving the governance of the urban transport sector
·
Operationalization of the Casablanca urban transport planning and management agency. 
·
Establishment of the National Commission on Urban Transport (CNDU). 
·
Operationalization of the Urban Transport Division of the Ministry of Interior’s General 
Directorate of Local Governments (DGCL). 
·
Implementation of a training program for a core group of managers in the urban transport field. 
Improving the efficiency and increasing the supply of urban transport services and infrastructure
Page  3
3
·
Restructuring of bus services for the agglomeration of Rabat-Sale-Temara. 
·
Restructuring of bus services for the agglomeration of Casablanca. 
·
Issue of a regulation defining the selection process for public service concessionaires in 
accordance with Law 54.05, and the main stipulations of the concession contracts. 
·
Adoption of eligibility criteria for State funding of urban transport investment projects. 
Improving the environmental and social sustainability of urban transport
·
Completion of the restructuring of vehicle inspection centers. 
 
·
Adoption of an action plan to improve the accessibility to urban transport of persons with limited 
mobility and organization of a national seminar to raise awareness and disseminate the action 
plan. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed DPL is outlined in the FY10-13 CPS discussed by the Board in January 2010.
 
The CPS 
is designed to help the Government achieve its medium term priority objectives in a flexible and 
responsive way. It is organized around three main pillars. The 
first
 concentrates on activities that 
encourage growth, competitiveness and employment, including fostering macro-economic stability and 
promoting private sector development as engine of growth. The 
second
 pillar supports the improvement 
in access to, and quality of, public services, including the development of institutions and management 
systems. The 
third
 pillar aims at ensuring that Morocco’s development can be sustainable and addresses 
natural resources and climate change challenges. In addition, the CPS places a strong emphasis on the 
governance agenda which is to be mainstreamed across the Bank program. The CPS refers to the 
proposed Urban Transport DPL and indicates that it would contribute to these three strategic pillars by: (i) 
reducing transport costs and improving the mobility of people and goods, therefore improving 
competitiveness, and creating the proper framework for employment and growth stimulating investments; 
(ii) improving the quality and efficiency of urban transport services, particularly through more effective 
institutions; and (iii) improving sustainable development and mitigating GHG emissions. The proposed 
DPL would also contribute to important cross cutting reforms such as local governments’ development, 
governance, and public private partnerships. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source
:
($million) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (preliminary) 
130 
Total 130 
 
Page  4
4
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
As the ministerial department in charge of monitoring and supporting the activities of the local 
governments in Morocco, the Ministry of Interior has the overall leadership for the formulation of the 
Government program for urban transport and follow-up of its implementation.
 It has been and will 
continue to be the focal point for this DPL and will have the responsibility for monitoring progress. 
Within this overall context, the newly created CNDU will play an important role to help coordinate the 
strategies and activities of the various ministries involved in the urban transport sector and to provide a 
high level technical forum where the progress of the reform program will be assessed and corrective 
actions will be reviewed. The CNDU includes representatives from the key concerned ministries. The 
detailed technical implementation of the reforms and follow up of the actions already undertaken as part 
of this DPL will be done by the units who have the related expertise such as the Directorates of the 
Ministry of Interior in charge of State-owned companies and Concessions, and Training. The newly 
created urban transport division within the Ministry of Interior will provide for the day-to-day 
coordination and the overall monitoring of the reforms. This division will also act as the technical 
secretariat of the CNDU. 
 
Supervision missions will allow the Bank to continue providing policy advice and technical support to 
the departments and units involved in
 the implementation of the sector’s reform program
.
Bank staff 
will focus on the impact outcomes of the DPL program and the adjustments that may be needed to 
enhance the Government program.
 
6. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
A
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis was carried out to assess the potential social impacts of this 
operation. The PSIA concluded that the reforms supported by the DPL are largely positive for 
marginalized population of urban centers. In particular, low revenue groups in peri-urban areas in need of 
efficient and cost contained public transport services, as well as individuals with accessibility needs stand 
to benefit from the reforms. 
 
The key negative impact of the reform concern job losses deriving from restructuring of bus systems in 
Rabat and Casablanca, which entails the discontinuation of private bus operators’ services following 
the transfer of bus operations to a single operator in each city. 
The problem was more acute in Rabat, 
where roughly 630 people were concerned, due to limited job opportunities within and outside the sector, 
as well as a relatively hasty restructuring process which offered little adjustment time to potentially 
affected individuals. In Casablanca, the problem was less acute due to a strong labor market and more job 
opportunities, as well as a more gradual restructuring process. 
 
Morocco has systems in place to address job losses due to restructuring processes similar to the one at 
hand. 
According to Morocco’s legislation, open ended labor contracts can be terminated by the employer 
against retrenchments payments (indemnités), calculated based on the workers’ years of service (art. 52 of 
the labor code). In cases of undue or unjustified job termination (art 41), workers are entitled to 
compensatory payments (article 55). Workers have the right to sue and seek compensation in the courts 
when their rights are infringed. Additionally, Morocco has active employment dedicated agencies 
delivering professional re-training and re-skilling programs to jobless workers subject to retrenchments 
following sector restructuring. Both the National Agency for the Employment and Skills Promotion 
(ANAPEC) and the Office for Professional Training and Labor Promotion (OFPPT) deliver reconversion 
and re-insertion training programs with the goal of facilitating the match between supply and demand in 
the job market. 
Page  5
5
For both cities, the Bank has explored, together with the Government, local authorities, and labor market 
agencies, potential mitigation options. In Rabat, the authorities have resorted to a gamut of measures 
ranging from including staff re-hiring clauses in the contract of the new operator, to a Social Aid package 
targeting those not benefiting from rehiring. In Casablanca, local authorities, together with the ANAPEC 
are devising a training program which will provide re-skilling and labor demand-offer matching services 
to job seekers. 
 
Environment Aspects 
 
Over the last decade, Morocco has achieved significant progress in developing its institutional and 
legal framework in the area of environmental protection.
 The State Secretariat (in charge of Water and 
Environment), within the Ministry of Mines, Energy, Water and Environment (MMEWE), has become a 
full-fledged environmental administration.  Morocco has also developed a comprehensive environmental 
strategy in 2005, the National Environmental and Sustainable Development Strategy, with four main 
priorities: water protection, waste reduction and its management, water quality improvement and soil 
protection. In addition, the Government has enacted in 2003 Law No
 
12-03 defining the requirements for 
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and creating a national committee within the MMEWE for the 
review and oversight of EIAs. Furthermore, the Government Council recently enacted two decrees related 
to the establishment of the national and regional EIA committees as well as a decree for public 
consultation and disclosure. Additional measures are also being taken to support the strengthening of the 
Moroccan environmental institutions and legal systems, with the support of various donors and 
international development agencies, notably GTZ. All these developments contribute to reinforcing the 
environmental protection framework in Morocco, both at national and local level, and installing the 
necessary legal and institutional capacity to manage the environmental impacts of the proposed urban 
transport reforms. 
 
An assessment of the potential environmental impacts of the reforms under the proposed DPL was 
conducted in early 2010 and concluded that these reforms will have significant positive effects on the 
environment and very little negative effects. By nature, the reforms will mainly have positive impacts on 
the environment and health as a result of the development of the necessary institutional and regulatory 
framework for the proper management of urban transport, which will enhance the efficiency of urban 
transport services and infrastructure, reduce congestion, and therefore improve air quality in major cities. 
These positive impacts, moderate to high, include a reduction in GHG emissions, and an improvement of 
air quality as a result of the decrease of those pollutants’ emissions with negative health impacts (sulfur 
dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, total hydrocarbons and ozone). 
 
It is estimated that the DPL measures would reduce GHG emissions by about 400,000 Tons/year.
 These 
reductions will primarily result from the implementation of the vehicle inspection centers’ reforms (GHG 
emissions reduction of about 350,000 Tons/year) and the restructuring of bus operations in Rabat and 
Casablanca (GHG emissions reduction of about 50,000 Tons/year). Vehicle inspection centers’ reforms 
will improve the quality and regularity of vehicle inspections, which will in turn lead to an improved 
maintenance and operations of the existing vehicle fleet in Morocco, and an improved quality of imported 
vehicles. Meanwhile, the restructuring of bus services will improve buses’ quality and operations, and 
therefore improve their energy efficiency. 
 
While the reforms will have some negative environmental impacts, these are likely to be moderate to 
low, and are mostly associated with those indirect activities that would complement the DPL measures, 
such as urban infrastructure investments and works.
 Nevertheless, the existing legal and institutional 
framework for environmental protection, both at national and local level, provides enough assurance that 
potential negative impacts will be properly mitigated. Moreover, the Government has shown its 
Page  6
6
commitment to reinforce environmental protection, and its urban transport strategy includes actions to 
further improve the management of environmental impacts through the strengthening of local and 
national capacities to undertake EIAs and implement EMPs in the sector. 
 
7. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jean-Charles Crochet 
Title: Senior Transport Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1159 
Fax: (202) 477-1981 
Email: Jcrochet@worldbank.org 
 
8. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
