                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2187




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-80200)



                                      ON A

                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 100 MILLION
                      (US$ 136.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                           KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                IN SUPPORT OF

                      THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR



                                  June 27, 2012



Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2011)
           Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                   MAD 1.00 = US$0.1163
                    US$1.00 = MAD 8.598

         MOROCCO GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 – December 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD    Agence Française de Développement
AODU   Agence Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains
BRT    Bus Rapid Transit
CNDU   Commission Nationale des Déplacements Urbains
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CSO    Civil Society Organization
DDUT   Division des Déplacements Urbains et du Transport
DGCL   Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales
DPE    Division de la Planification et de l’Equipement
DPL    Development Policy Loan
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GHG    Greenhouse Gas
IFC    International Finance Corporation
PDO    Policy Development Objective




               Vice President:   Inger Andersen
             Country Director:   Simon Gray
              Sector Manager:    Patricia Veevers-Carter
            Task Team Leader:    Jean-Charles Crochet
             ICR Team Leader     Ziad Nakat
                                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                        Urban Transport Sector DPL


                                                      CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 27
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 28
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 30
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
Map ............................................................................................................................... 50
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Urban Transport Sector
Country:                Morocco                  Program Name:
                                                                           DPL
Program ID:             P115659                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-80200
ICR Date:               06/05/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           MOROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 136.70M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 140.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 136.70M
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Interior
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: No co-financiers

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/02/2009      Effectiveness:            08/18/2011         08/18/2011
Appraisal:            12/13/2010      Restructuring(s):             N/A                N/A
Approval:             03/15/2011      Mid-term Review:              N/A                N/A
                                      Closing:                  12/31/2011         12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem                                Quality at Entry
                         No                                               None
Program at any time                              (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                     100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               10                  10
Other social development                                              10                  10
Other urban development                                               50                  50
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      30                  30
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                      Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:          Simon Gray                          Simon Gray
Sector Manager:            Patricia Veevers-Carter             Patricia Veevers-Carter
Program Team Leader:       Ziad Nakat                          Jean-Charles Crochet
ICR Team Leader:           Ziad Nakat                          n.a.
ICR Primary Author:        Ziad Nakat                          n.a.


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the DPL was to improve the efficiency of urban transport in
Morocco’s large cities through: (i) better governance of the sector; (ii) increased performance and
supply of urban transport services and infrastructure; and (iii) higher environmental and social
sector sustainability.


Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
The program objectives remained unchanged throughout the loan.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target          Completion or
                                               documents)           Values           Target Years
Indicator 1: There is a clear plan shared by all stakeholders for the restructuring of the bus route
network of the agglomeration and this plan is well coordinated with the development of all other
modes of transport.
Value
                                                Substantial                           Substantial
(Quantitative or           No plan                                    n.a.
                                                completion                            completion
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            01/31/2011             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 2: The CNDU meets at least twice a year to coordinate, monitor and evaluate
government actions in the urban transport sector.
Value
(Quantitative or            None                    Two               n.a.                  0
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            01/31/2011             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 3: Conventions have been signed by the Ministry of Interior and local governments to
assist them, including with funding, for the preparation of municipal urban strategies and priority
investment plans
Value
(Quantitative or            None            Three Large Cities        n.a.         Four Large Cities
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            01/31/2011             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 4: Number of trained experts and number of cities which benefited from the training
program
Value
                                             32 experts and 9                      32 experts and 9
(Quantitative or            None                                      n.a.
                                                    cities                                cities
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            03/31/2010             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 5: Number of passenger seat-km supplied by Stareo.
Value
(Quantitative or               0                 2.0 billion          n.a.            2.26 billion
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            10/29/2009             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 6: Number of passenger seat-km supplied by M’dina Bus.
Value
(Quantitative or          1.9 billion            2.6 billion          n.a.             2.4 billion
Qualitative)
Date Achieved            12/31/2009             12/31/2011        12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Indicator 7: The selection of future public transport operators in large cities is fully competitive
and transparent.
Value
(Quantitative or               n.a.                 all              n.a.              all
Qualitative)
Date Achieved              01/31/2011          12/31/2011        12/31/2011       12/31/2011
Indicator 8: Percentage of the number of projects accepted for State funding which comply with
the adopted eligibility criteria.
Value
(Quantitative or                 0                 75%               n.a.             75%
Qualitative)
Date Achieved              10/31/2010          12/31/2011        12/31/2011       12/31/2011
Indicator 9: number of visits for vehicle inspection, the report of which has been issued through
the automated electronic process
Value
(Quantitative or            1,100,000           1,700,000            n.a.          1,606,013
Qualitative)
Date Achieved              12/31/2010          12/31/2011        12/31/2011       12/31/2011
Indicator 10: number of cities which have included an accessibility component in their
rehabilitation or improvement urban transport infrastructure projects.
Value
(Quantitative or                 0                   2               n.a.               3
Qualitative)
Date Achieved              01/31/2011          12/31/2011        12/31/2011       12/31/2011


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Not Applicable.

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     12/22/2011     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                140.20


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Macroeconomic background.
1.      At the time of appraisal of the Urban Transport Development Policy Loan
(DPL), Morocco featured robust macroeconomic performance. The Government had
carried out sound macroeconomic policies and reforms that allowed the country’s growth
pattern to shift toward a higher level averaging 5.1% between 2001 and 2009. As a result,
the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita almost doubled over the same period and
reached US $2,890 in 2009. In addition, the consolidation of public finances had led to
budget surpluses in 2007/2008 and allowed the country to withstand the global crisis of
2008/2009, with a budget deficit that remained manageable at 2.2% of GDP. Similarly,
the prudent debt strategy that had been adopted by the Government led to a decline in
Treasury debt from 62% of GDP in 2005 to 46.9% in 2009, thus providing leeway to
withstand the external shocks during the global crisis. On the monetary front, authorities
had pursued policies geared toward maintaining low and stable inflation (an average of
2.2% between 2005 and 2009) and enhanced financial sector supervision. Overall, these
efforts had led to a stable macroeconomic stance, stronger public finances, and a sound
financial sector, something that had been acknowledged by rating agencies: Morocco
gained an investment grade rate from both Fitch and Standard & Poor in 2007 and 2010,
leading to a reinforced confidence of domestic and foreign investors.
1.1.2 Sector background.
2.      During the DPL preparation, there was a broad consensus that Morocco’s
urban transport sector did not serve its population and economy as well as it should
have. The supply of public transport services in the main cities was inadequate and only
equivalent to a third of the supply in most middle-income countries in Latin America and
East Asia. While many structural and interrelated weaknesses explained this situation, the
urban transport sector mainly suffered from (i) institutional weaknesses, (ii) inefficiencies
in the provision of urban transport services and infrastructure, and (iii) the lack of
environmental and social sustainability.
       (i) Institutional weaknesses
3.      The urban transport sector suffered from the widespread absence of effective
institutions for developing and implementing government actions. Although many
actors were involved, including at the local level (municipalities, local governments, de-
concentrated services of the central government etc.), responsibilities were fragmented
and there were many gaps and overlaps. While municipalities were in charge of urban
transport, they had limited human and institutional capability and financial resources.
Provinces and Regions were in principle responsible for filling some of this vacuum,
especially for infrastructure development, but they had neither the capability nor the
resources to do so. At the central government level, there was also limited capability to
monitor progress in the sector and design and implement financial and technical support
programs for the local authorities.


                                             1
4.      The sector’s institutional shortcomings were compounded by the near
absence of comprehensive multimodal planning and the lack of financing. Only a
few large urban areas had well developed urban transport master plans and knowledge
through which decision makers could elaborate strategies and take economically sensible
decisions. Besides Casablanca, there was no consensus in most cities on the sector’s
development strategy, while factual knowledge of sector issues and investment needs was
limited. Furthermore, the lack of financing for the sector had been a problem for many
years primarily due to the limited fiscal resources of local governments and the absence
of a structured process for funding urban transport investments out of the national budget.
5.     Finally, the shortage of human resources was underlying most weaknesses in
the sector. The number of Moroccan experts in urban transport was extremely small
given the size and sophistication of the country. Opportunities for education and
continuous learning were few and there was no system for collecting and disseminating
national or international knowledge in the sector, sharing experiences, and building a
common approach to the sector.
       (ii) Inefficiencies in the provision of urban transport services and
infrastructure.
6.       Public transport supply was low and poorly regulated. At the time of
appraisal, public transport in Morocco consisted only of buses and taxis. The supply
of buses was limited and the quality of services was not satisfactory when compared to
other middle-income countries. Furthermore, contracts used to provide bus services were
net cost contracts that shifted all commercial risks to private operators and limited their
willingness to invest, particularly in the absence of a level playing field in the
competition between buses and collective taxis. Due to these deficiencies in the bus
system, about half of public transport was provided by taxis in most large Moroccan
cities, often on high density routes where bus services could have been more efficient.
7.      The layout of the urban road network and the management of traffic and
parking were inadequate. The urban road networks were usually not well
structured and there was no functional classification of the urban roads. There were
no proper urban infrastructure asset management tools to prioritize maintenance
interventions on the urban road network. Meanwhile traffic flows were not well
organized and the operation of intersections, whether signalized or not, was often
inefficient. Priority in general had been given to car traffic and thus the facilities for
pedestrians and bicyclists were lacking. Finally, parking was not managed to optimize the
use of public space nor to provide a pricing disincentive to the use of private cars.
       (iii) Lack of environmental and social sustainability.
8.      The rapid motorization, aging vehicle fleet, and growing transport demand
were undermining the environmentally sustainable growth of the sector. Morocco’s
motorization rate had been growing at the rate of 4 to 5% yearly, a rate that had already
created significant congestion in major cities and led to energy inefficiencies and poor air
quality. An aging and poorly maintained vehicle fleet averaging 15 years old further
exacerbated the problem. It was clear that the existing model for urban transport
development raised serious sustainability concerns and alternative modes of public
transport needed to be encouraged.


                                             2
9.     The urban transport sector in Morocco also suffered from an insufficient
attention to social issues, particularly accessibility, in the planning and
implementation of policies. The design and construction of urban infrastructure - such
as sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, or bus stops - as well as the provision of public
transport services, lacked basic accessibility features. Existing urbanism and construction
codes seldom included provisions on the accessibility of persons with disabilities, and in
the event few provisions existed, they were rarely understood or implemented.
1.1.3. Rationale for Bank Assistance.
10.      The World Bank had been significantly involved in Morocco’s urban
transport sector and was therefore well positioned to accompany the government in
its sector reform program. Since 2006, the Bank had contributed significantly to the
vigorous debate that had taken place in Morocco on the root causes of the poor
performance of the country’s urban transport sector. The Bank had successfully focused
its assistance on capacity building, the provision of technical support and the transfer of
best practices and lessons of experiences from other middle-income countries. The strong
policy and analytical support had allowed the Bank to assist the government of Morocco
in designing its urban transport strategy. As such, the government request for an urban
transport DPL to support it in the implementation of the sector strategy was a logical
extension of the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank had been playing in the
sector for a few years.
11.     The strong Government interest in Bank continuous support in the urban
transport sector was expressed in the FY10-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).
The CPS identified an urban transport DPL and highlighted its capacity to contribute to
three main CPS strategic pillars: (1) encouraging growth, competitiveness and
employment, (2) improving the access to, and the quality of, public services, and (3)
addressing climate change challenges. In addition, the DPL contributed to important
cross cutting reforms such as local governments’ development, governance, and public
private partnerships.
12.     Multiple circumstances favored the choice of a single tranche DPL as the
lending instrument for this operation. First, some of the key weaknesses in the sector,
as highlighted in Section 1.1.2 above, were of a structural nature and required building a
consensus among various government entities on critical actions that did not have
specific investment implications. This concerned especially tackling the gaps in the
sector’s institutional structure and capacity, and removing existing weaknesses in urban
transport coordination and planning. Second, the government was reluctant to borrow for
a Sector Investment Loan as recent experience had showed that World Bank funded
infrastructure projects in Morocco often took a long time to prepare and implement. The
2008 global crisis also reinforced the government’s preference for budget financing
through series of sectoral DPLs. These reasons explained the choice of a DPL as an
instrument during project preparation. The choice of a single tranche operation resulted
from the fact that while the government had a vision for the medium to long term policy
in the sector, there was confidence in only very short term actions. Therefore a single
tranche DPL, focused on such actions, appeared as the most realistic option. The
difficulties faced, and eventual failure, in preparing a second DPL in programmatic series



                                            3
of DPLs undertaken in the water and energy sectors in Morocco, has reinforced the
choice for a single tranche DPL.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
13.      The development objective of the DPL program was to support the
government in improving the efficiency of urban transport in Morocco’s large cities.
To do so, the DPL focused on (i) improving the governance of the urban transport sector,
(ii) increasing the performance and supply of urban transport services and infrastructure
and (iii) achieving higher environmental and social sector sustainability.
14.    The specific benefits expected from the implementation of the reform program
supported by this DPL were:
15.     Improved governance: (i) efficient planning and management of the urban
transport sector in the Casablanca agglomeration, (ii) effective coordination of policies
and programs among the main government departments involved in the urban transport
sector, (iii) effective central government support provided to local authorities on urban
transport issues, and (iv) increased urban transport expertise in the cities that had carried
out or launched the preparation of municipal urban strategies and priority investment
plans.
16.    Higher efficiency of urban transport services and infrastructure: (v)
improved quality and quantity of bus services in the agglomerations of Rabat-Salé-
Témara and Casablanca, (vi) alignment of the procurement process for outsourcing public
transport services with international best practice, (vii) improved allocation of
government financial support to those urban transport investment projects with superior
economic and social returns.
17.     Improved environmental and social sustainability: (viii) effective vehicle
inspection and monitoring systems in place and (ix) the accessibility of persons with
limited mobility mainstreamed in urban transport projects and awareness increased.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
18.     The program objectives and key indicators remained unchanged throughout the
loan.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
19.     The government of Morocco put together an urban transport sector development
strategy that focused on three policy areas. The DPL supported the program through ten
priority actions.
Policy Area 1: Improving the Governance of the Urban Transport Sector:
20.    Urban transport issue. Morocco suffered from a very limited institutional
capacity in the urban transport sector, whether in central or local governments, for
policymaking or implementation, and in the fields of planning, public transport or traffic
management.


                                             4
21.     Governmental Sector Strategy. To tackle governance issues, the Government’s
strategy supported the establishment of urban transport planning and management
agencies in each large Moroccan urban area to prepare and monitor the cities’ multimodal
urban transport strategies, select investment priorities, and organize and manage traffic,
public transport and parking. In addition, the strategy focused on setting up an
appropriate institutional framework at the national level to initiate, coordinate, implement
and monitor central and local Government action in urban transport. Lastly, an emphasis
was put on the widespread and multi-level development of national expertise in the urban
transport sector through the carrying out of training programs and the setting up of an
action plan to disseminate international best practices and establish a continuous learning
process for urban transport staff.
22.    DPL support through priority actions. The DPL supported the governance agenda
of the Moroccan urban transport strategy through (1) the strengthening of Casablanca’s
urban transport planning and management agency, (2) the establishment of the National
Commission for Urban Transport (Commission Nationale des Déplacements Urbains –
CNDU), (3) the reinforcing of the Urban Transport Division (Division des Déplacements
Urbains et du Transport – DDUT) at the Ministry of Interior and (4) the training of a core
group of managers in the urban transport Sector.
Policy Area 2: Improving the efficiency and increasing the supply of urban
transport services and infrastructure
23.    Urban transport issue. Moroccan cities suffered from the lack of an efficient bus
network, the absence of a proper framework for private provision of public transport
services and the weaknesses of urban transport infrastructure management.
24.      Governmental Sector Strategy. To address these problems, the government
strategy supported technical, organizational and regulatory measures as well as
investments in public transport aimed at developing the capacity and efficiency of
services. In particular, the focus was put on enhancing the performance of bus systems
and helping municipalities restructure bus services and operators’ contracts when deemed
necessary. The government strategy also focused on improving the regulatory and
institutional framework of public partnerships through the clarification of concession
contract stipulations and the selection procedures of private service providers.
Furthermore, Moroccan authorities strived to improve the funding mechanisms for urban
transport systems through the rationalization of the allocation of funding to municipalities
and the definition of eligibility criteria of investments that can benefit from central
government financing.
25.    DPL support through priority actions. The DPL helped in the implementation of
the government strategy through (5) implementation of a new bus organization in Rabat-
Salé-Témara with a new single bus service operator, (6) the restructuring of the provision
of bus services in the agglomeration of Casablanca, (7) the adoption of adequate rules
and regulations for selecting and contracting public services concessionaires and (8) the
adoption of eligibility criteria for the state funding of urban transport investment projects.




                                              5
Policy Area 3: Improving the Environmental and Social Sustainability of Urban
Transport
26.     Urban transport issue. The environmental sustainability of the urban transport
sector was undermined by the rapid motorization, the aging vehicle fleet and the growing
transport demand in Morocco, while the planning and implementation of urban transport
policies suffered from the insufficient attention to social issues such as accessibility.
27.     Governmental Sector Strategy. In order to tackle these issues, Moroccan
authorities supported the supply increase of “green? transportation, such as Bus Rapid
Transit systems, light rail transit lines and/or suburban railways in Casablanca and Rabat-
Salé. Furthermore, they targeted the improvement of air quality through the reform of
vehicle inspection centers, the revision of vehicle emission thresholds, and the definition
of emission norms for vehicle types. The government strategy also aims to improve social
integration, particularly of vulnerable groups such as persons with disabilities, through
the reinforcement of the sector’s institutional and regulatory framework to deal with
accessibility issues, the reinforcement of technical capacity at local and municipal level,
and increasing the awareness of all relevant parties.
28.     DPL support through priority actions. The DPL supported the government’s
program through (9) the restructuring of the vehicle inspection centers and (10) the
adoption and dissemination of an action plan to improve the accessibility of people with
limited mobility.
29.     It should be noted that while the financing of the sector is an important issue,
authorities were not yet ready to address it in a sustainable manner: at the time of the
DPL preparation, authorities were concerned about the financing of the capital
investments in the public transport system, and the central government had accepted to
support some of these investments granted they are justified on solid economic and social
ground. This explains prior action 8 of the DPL on eligibility criteria, which is aimed at
rationalizing central government financing of urban transport investments. The
discussion on the financing of operating and maintenance costs was not then matured
since no mass transit system was yet in place during the DPL preparation.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
30.    There were no revised policy areas.

1.6 Other significant changes
31.    There were no other significant changes

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
32.     The urban transport DPL was a single tranche operation that disbursed on
effectiveness. The strong government commitment to the reform program and measures
supported by the DPL program, combined with the timely completion of the specific




                                             6
    measures negotiated as prior actions have resulted in the disbursement of the operation as
    foreseen.
                                          Expected Release   Actual Release
        Tranche #        Amount                                                   Release
                                               Date              Date
      Single Tranche    Euro 100 M          11/30/2011        09/08/2011        (1) Regular

    33.     The Ministry of Interior was the designated implementing agency given that
    urban transport falls under its responsibilities, and given its direct involvement in the
    execution of 8 out of 10 of the program’s prior actions described in table 1 below, except
    for prior action 9 (executed by the ministry of Transport) and prior action 10 (executed
    by the ministry of Social Development). Several other ministries were substantially
    consulted during the program preparation and implementation (Housing, Energy and
    Environment, Finance, and General Affairs) in addition to local authorities in the major
    agglomerations.
    34.   The table below presents the prior action by operation. The causal link to
    outcomes is discussed in section 3.2.
    Table 1: Prior actions by operation

                                                DPL
                                                                               Status
                     Policy Area 1: Governance of the urban transport sector
Prior Action 1. The Casablanca urban transport management and planning agency Completed
(Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains du Grand Casablanca – AODU)
became fully operational.
Prior Action 2. The Minister of Interior issued a Circular (Circulaire) dated October Completed
14, 2010 establishing the National Commission for Urban Transport (Commission
Nationale des Déplacements Urbains - CNDU).
Prior Action 3. The Urban Transport Division (Division des Déplacements Urbains et Completed
du Transport - DDUT) of the General Directorate of Local Governments of the
Ministry of Interior became operational.
Prior Action 4. The Ministry of Interior carried out a training program for a core Completed
group of managers in the urban transport sector.
         Policy Area 2: Efficiency and supply of urban transport services and infrastructure
Prior Action 5. The contract between the concerned municipalities of the Completed
agglomeration of Rabat-Salé-Témara and the operator of bus services Stareo became
effective in 2009.
Prior Action 6. Key measures were taken to restructure the provision of bus services Completed
in the agglomeration of Casablanca.
Prior Action 7. The Minister of Interior issued an order (Arrêté) on August 25, 2010, Completed
setting forth the selection process for public services concessionaires in accordance
with Law 54.05 dated February 16, 2006, and the main stipulations of the concession
contracts.
Prior Action 8. The Ministry of Interior issued a Circular (Circulaire) dated Completed


                                                  7
November 4, 2010, defining the eligibility criteria for state funding of urban transport
investment projects.
             Policy Area 3: Environmental and social sustainability of urban transport
Prior Action 9. The Ministry of Equipment and Transport completed the Completed
restructuring of the vehicle inspection centers.
Prior Action 10. The Ministry of Social Development, Family and Solidarity in Completed
consultation with relevant ministries, adopted an action plan to improve the
accessibility of people with limited mobility and organized a national seminar to
raise awareness and disseminate the action plan.

    2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
    Positive factors affecting implementation:
    35.    Soundness of the background analysis. The Urban Transport DPL was designed
    and undertaken based on significant consultations and previous analytical work
    conducted by the World Bank that allowed for a thorough understanding of the
    challenges facing the sector in Morocco. Bank teams prepared a number of sectoral notes
    on urban transport in Morocco, including five thematic diagnostic reports on urban
    transport (2006), a study on urban transport financing systems (2007), a review of
    investment options for Casablanca (2008) and a strategy note on Morocco’s Urban
    Transport (2008). In addition, several workshops and high-level seminars were conducted
    and technical visits for Moroccan experts and decision makers were organized to Tunisia
    (2007), France (2008), and Brazil (2008). Combined with the consultations that took
    place with Moroccan counterparts, the long-term engagement of the Bank in urban
    transport in Morocco and its good understanding of the sector positively impacted the
    implementation of the DPL.
    36.     Adequacy of government’s commitment. The DPL included ten prior actions
    that had to be executed by different government agencies. The long-standing relationship
    of the Bank with Moroccan authorities helped assuage the difficulties that arose as a
    result of having multiple implementing agencies. A good dialogue was maintained with
    these agencies and they proved to be generally quite responsive, thus positively
    impacting the preparation and implementation of the DPL.
    37.     Pragmatic design of the operation. The prior actions included in the DPL were
    selected following significant consultations and discussions with the Moroccan
    counterparts. The design of the DPL was thus pragmatic and ensured that all prior actions
    were realistically feasible in the time frame of the operation.
    Negative Factors affecting implementation:
    38.    Lack of effective inter-agency coordination. The main factor that negatively
    impacted the DPL was the insufficient local coordination of implementing agencies. At
    the beginning of the DPL preparation, joint meetings were held with all agencies
    involved to define actions. This however did not continue due to difficulty of
    continuously holding large meetings with involvement of all parties concerned, and the
    implementing agency did not have the appropriate resources for continuous and extensive
    follow ups. Agencies had therefore to each implement its actions separately, and the only



                                                 8
effective coordination had to be ensured by the Bank team through numerous and
separate visits, and continuous transfer of information between all involved.
39.     Limited resources on the Government side for program preparation. Staffing
of the unit in charge of leading and coordinating program preparation was insufficient
especially given the broad range of potential actions in the program and the relative
novelty of Government involvement in the urban transport sector. There was also very
limited funding from either the Government or donors for technical assistance and policy
studies. This constrained the scope of what could be achieved and affected the speed of
program preparation while placing much responsibility on the Bank team.
40.     Weak local capacity and limited impact of the DPL instrument at the local
level. The implementations of some of the program reforms required the involvement of
local authorities. While local authorities have been generally willing to collaborate, they
lacked the necessary capacity to do so. In addition, and while an adequate instrument to
enhance central government policies, the DPL could not have direct impact at local level.
Fostering local authorities’ commitment to the reforms therefore required a continuous
dialogue and technical support from the Bank team.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
41.     Design. The design of the DPL’s indicators was good. The indicators were chosen
in consultation with the implementation agency, their number was small and they were
simple, yet specific, relevant and measurable. Overall, the design of these indicators
struck a good balance between quantitative and qualitative measurements.
42.     Implementation. The implementation was based on supervision missions by the
Bank that allowed for a close monitoring of the program’s execution. Each ministerial
department was in charge of data collection as well as of the execution and the
monitoring of the relevant sections of the DPL. Both data collection methods and data
quality were appropriate.
43.      Utilization. The Bank’s missions prepared detailed aides-mémoires highlighting
progress on each action and allowing for the coordination of the DPL. In the absence of
institutionalized and effective inter-ministerial collaboration, the agencies in charge of
different sections of the DPL were made aware of the progress of the project through the
aides-mémoires, which ensured an indirect cooperation and knowledge transfer between
these agencies to meet the reform objectives. World Bank missions and involvement
provided implementing agencies with data and independent international expert opinion
that informed their decision-making and resource allocation.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:
44.    A second single-tranche DPL was referred to in the CPS and the government of
Morocco has expressed its interest for it. A new government heads the country since
January 2012 and its new priorities have yet to be discussed. It is apparent however that
the urban transport sector will remain an important priority for Moroccan authorities as
expressed by a recent government request for a second urban transport operation.




                                            9
45.     The second DPL will focus on continuing and deepening all of the three reform
axes of the first urban transport DPL: (i) improving the sector’s governance; (ii)
improving the efficiency and increasing the supply of urban transport services and
infrastructure; and (iii) improving the sector’s environmental and social sustainability. In
addition, the second DPL will introduce a new area of focus: (iv) improving the financial
sustainability of the urban transport sector. Indeed, during the first DPL, Morocco was in
the process of building new mass transit systems in the agglomerations of Rabat-Salé and
Casablanca. Today, the tramway in Rabat is in place, while construction is well underway
in Casablanca. As a result, the issues of financing operating and maintenance costs and
ensuring a proper coordination between different public transport modes (bus, taxi and
tramway) have become increasingly important and need to be included in the second
DPL.
46.     In terms of timing, the second DPL is expected to be prepared by July 2013. The
future monitoring of this second DPL will be three-fold: (1) each ministerial department
will continue executing and monitoring relevant components of the DPL, (2) the World
Bank will continue providing some degree of monitoring and coordination through
missions and aides-memoires and (3) the World Bank will further push for the activation
of the CNDU in its important role of monitoring the urban transport sector in Morocco.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
47.     The long and successful history of policy dialogue in the sector between the
Bank and the Moroccan government helped make the objectives, design and
implementation of this operation relevant to Morocco’s development priorities and
well aligned with its sector reform strategy. As earlier discussed, the Bank had
contributed in shaping the government sector strategy following significant analytical
work and consultations. Relevant government entities have generally come to share the
Bank assessment of the sector issues and priorities. The DPL objectives were therefore,
to a large extent, those of the government strategy, and the definition of the three policy
areas of the DPL copied the pillars of the government strategy. The design of the DPL as
a single tranche operation also allowed the needed flexibility to support those reform
actions that were most ripe within the government overall sector strategy. The
implementation of the DPL required the execution of 10 prior actions by 3 ministries as
well as substantial consultations with additional ministries, government agencies, and
local authorities, therefore concretizing a broad government ownership and support to
the reform agenda.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
48.    The key policy achievements that were achieved under Urban Transport DPL
operations are discussed below. The outcomes by actions are listed in table 2.
Overall Outcomes of the Urban Transport DPL.
49.    Overall, the DPL program has been relatively successful in meeting its
development objectives.


                                            10
Policy Area 1: Governance of the urban transport sector
50.      The institutions that were supported through the DPL have been generally
successful. The reinforced DDUT is now effectively supervising the technical aspects of
the sector at the national level and providing support to local authorities. Similarly, the
Casablanca AODU has been strengthened and it currently plays a key role in planning
and coordinating urban transport in Casablanca. Training programs are also being
provided and continued and they have succeeded in creating and reinforcing a core of
experts on urban transport in Morocco. The main shortcoming stems from the fact that
the CNDU has to yet effectively start its work. The commission will have to play a key
role in the sector and its effectiveness was an important objective of the reform program.
Policy Area 2: Efficiency and supply of urban transport infrastructure and services
51.     The reforms supporting the efficiency of urban transport services and
infrastructure however, while advancing, remain overall less successful. The essence
of these reforms consisted in increasing the efficiency of public transport in Morocco,
notably buses, and improving the financing of urban transport projects. In Casablanca,
M’dina bus saw its performances improve, but only after substantial government support
to achieve these results. In Rabat, the reform succeeded in having a single bus operator in
the city, something that contributed to improving the efficiency of the system, but the
private sector concession eventually failed and the government had to step in to maintain
bus services. Lastly, the eligibility criteria for state funding of urban transport projects
have been defined, thus increasing the due diligence required from local authority to
receive central government financing, but the adherence and effectiveness of these
criteria are yet to be tested by new requests for state financing of urban transport
investment projects.
Policy Area 3: Environmental and social sustainability of urban transports
52.     Meanwhile, the program’s reforms targeting environmental and social
sustainability have been successful in meeting the desired objectives. The overall
vehicle inspection centers’ reform program is almost complete, and inspection methods
modernized. The information on the quality and composition of the vehicle fleet is
automatically transmitted to the Ministry of Transport. To complement the program
reforms, authorities have taken significant measures to reduce vehicle emissions by
adopting Euro 4 norms and tightening emission thresholds. Similar advances were noted
regarding the improvement of the accessibility of persons with limited mobility as an
inter-ministerial action plan was developed and adopted and several of its important
actions already undertaken. There is also increased national awareness to this subject and
several cities are embarking on the improvement of the accessibility of their urban
infrastructure.
Outcome Indicators:
53.     As indicated by the table below, 7 of the 10 outcome indicators were fully met
and 2 were partially met. The indicators that were partially met achieved results very
close to the assigned targets, and have achieved the desired development impacts that
were expected from the corresponding reform action. Only one outcome was not
achieved by the project end target date: the CNDU has only held its first meeting on May



                                            11
23, 2012. No distinction was made in the program documents between PDO indicators
and intermediate indicators


Table 2: Project outcome indicators
                                                                                        Indicators:              Indicators:
      Policy Area                 Action                     Outcome
                                                                                  End Target 12/31/2011         Final Results
A. IMPROVING THE GOVERNANCE OF THE URBAN SECTOR
A.1 Establishment of                                  Efficient planning,
                         Prior Action 1:
an appropriate                                        coordination and
                         Casablanca Urban                                        Substantial Completion of
institutional                                         management of the
                         Transport Planning and                                  bus route network           End target met
framework in each                                     urban transport sector
                         Management Agency has                                   restructuring plan
large Moroccan                                        in the Casablanca
                         become fully operational
agglomeration                                         agglomeration
                                                      Effective Coordination
                                                      of policies and
                         Prior Action 2:
                                                      programs among the                                     End target not met.
                         Establishment of the                                    Two meetings of the
A.2 Establishment of                                  main Government                                        No meetings have
                         National Commission on                                  CNDU have taken place
an appropriate                                        departments involved in                                taken place
                         Urban Transport
national institutional                                the urban transport
framework to initiate                                 sector
and coordinate           Prior Action 3: The
Government actions in    Urban Transport              Effective Central
the urban transport                                                              Three conventions have
                         Division of the General      Government support                                     End target met.
sector                                                                           been signed between the
                         Directorate of Local         provided to local
                                                                                 Ministry of Interior and    4 conventions signed
                         Governments of the           authorities on urban
                                                                                 local governments
                         Ministry of Interior is      transport issues
                         operational
                                                      Sufficient urban
                                                      transport expertise is
A.3 Widespread and                                    available in the cities
                         Prior Action 4: The          that have carried out or
multi-level                                                                                                  End target met.
                         Ministry of Interior         launched the               32 experts from 9 cities
development of
                         carried out a training       preparation of their       have benefited from the     32 experts from 11
national expertise in
                         program for managers in      urban transport            training program            cities trained
the urban transport
                         the urban transport sector   strategies and priority
sector
                                                      investment plans


B. IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY AND INCREASING THE SUPPLY OF URBAN TRANSPORT
                         Prior Action 5: The
                         contract of the new          Improved quality and
                                                                                                             End target met.
                         operator of bus services     quantity of bus services   2.0 billion seat-km for
                                                                                                             2.26 billion seat-km
                         in Rabat-Salé-Témara         in the agglomeration of    2011
                                                                                                             for 2011
B.1 Restructuring of     agglomeration became         Rabat-Salé-Témara
bus services and         effective
operators contracts      Prior Action 6: The
                                                      Improved quality and                                   End target partially
                         provision of bus service                                                            met.
                                                      quantity of bus services   2.6 billion seat-km
                         in the agglomeration of
                                                      in the agglomeration of    supplied in 2011            2.4 billion seat-km
                         Casablanca has been
                                                      Casablanca                                             for 2011
                         restructured
                         Prior Action 7: The
                         Ministry of Interior
                                                      The procurement
B.2 Improvement of       launched the selection
                                                      process for                All new concessions have
the regulatory and       process for public
                                                      concessioning public       been procured in
institutional            services concessionaires                                                            End target met
                                                      transport services is in   accordance with new
framework for public     in accordance with law
                                                      line with international    regulation
private partnerships     54.05 and the main
                                                      best practice
                         stipulations of the
                         concession contracts




                                                              12
                         Prior Action 8: The         Government financial
                         eligibility criteria for    support is allocated to
B.3 Funding of urban                                                           75% of all new projects
                         state funding of urban      those urban transport
transport services and                                                         comply with eligibility        End target met
                         transport investment        investment projects
infrastructure                                                                 criteria
                         project have been           with superior economic
                         defined                     and social returns
C. IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF URBAN TRANSPORT
                                                                               1.7 million car inspection     End target partially
                         Prior Action 9: The         Effective vehicle
C.1 Improving air                                                              visits have had their report   met
                         vehicle inspections         inspection and
quality in large                                                               issued through the
                         centers have been           monitoring systems are                                   1,606,013 visits
agglomerations                                                                 automated electronic
                         restructured                in place                                                 reported for 2011
                                                                               process
                         Prior Action 10: An         Accessibility for
                         action plan to improve      persons with limited
C.2 Improving
                         accessibility to urban      mobility has been         Two cities with
accessibility for
                         transports of persons       mainstreamed in urban     accessibility project          End target met
persons with limited
                         with limited mobility has   transport projects and    component
mobility
                         been adopted and            awareness has
                         disseminated                increased



Outcomes by Policy Area
Policy Area 1: Improving the governance of the urban transport sector
Component A.1: Establishment of an appropriate institutional framework in each large
Moroccan agglomeration
54.    Prior Action 1. The Casablanca urban transport management and planning agency
(Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains du Grand Casablanca – AODU)
became fully operational.
55.     Description of Prior Action 1. The AODU was created in July 2008 but was not
endowed with the necessary resources to undertake its tasks. In 2010 however, the
agency became fully operational through the adoption of a priority work plan and an
adequate budget by its board of directors, the recruitment of a core group of technical
experts and the launching of comprehensive studies of bus network restructuring and
traffic management.
56.      Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 1. The AODU became fully
operational and benefitted from competent technical assistance. The agency plays today a
key role in the planning and coordination of the urban transport sector in the
agglomeration of Casablanca, by far the largest in the country. It provides vital support to
public actions undertaken in the urban transport sector through its analytical and technical
expertise, and the two studies it has launched (in October 2010 and January 2011) on the
restructuring of the bus network and the management of traffic are showing progress in
spite of initial delays in the reviewing and validation process. Nevertheless, the AODU’s
capacity to plan and manage urban transport in Casablanca could still be improved by
giving it the oversight of public transport operators and by endowing it with an
observatory of urban transport in charge of following and monitoring overall sector
performance and the execution of all projects in the sector. More importantly, the AODU
still needs to achieve a greater financial and institutional independence to become a full-
fledged planning, coordinating, and regulatory authority.




                                                            13
57.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The bus route network restructuring plan has
substantially progressed and is expected to be completed by the end of June 2012. The
study is the subject of lots of consultations, which explains that the plan was not
completely finalized by December 2011 despite substantial progress. The end target of
this prior action’s indicator, being the substantial completion of the restructuring plan,
however is met.
Component A.2: Establishment of an appropriate national institutional framework to
initiate and coordinate government actions in the urban transport sector
58.    Component A.2 included two prior actions each measured by a separate indicator.
These are summarized below:
59.   Prior Action 2. The Minister of Interior issued a Circular (Circulaire) dated
October 14, 2010 establishing the National Commission for Urban Transport (CNDU).
60.     Description of Prior Action 2. The CNDU is an institution with membership at
department director’s level. It has several functions that are important for the sound
development of the urban transport sector in Morocco. The role of the CNDU is to ensure
that the strategies of the main ministries involved in the sector are consistent and
complementary. It also provides a technical forum to rapidly review in a uniform and
collegial manner investment projects proposed by local governments for national budget
financing. Lastly, the commission is tasked with the monitoring of the development of
the sector over time. The CNDU therefore ensures that the central government plays an
effective role in supporting local authorities in their day-to-day activities in the sector.
61.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 2. The CNDU first meeting
finally occurred in May 23, 2012, 5 month after the closing date of the project. This first
meeting was nevertheless important as the working mechanism of the CNDU had to be
discussed and established. The primary objective the CNDU has to focus on is the
steering and follow up on the government urban transport strategy. The CNDU also needs
to discuss important sector governance issues, such as the creation of the urban transport
authority in Rabat and the study of investment projects proposed by local authorities.
Despite delays in convening the CNDU, the fact that it has eventually met and started its
operations is very important for the continuation of the reforms in the sector and for
ensuring inter-ministerial coordination.
62.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s required the
CNDU to meet at least twice before the closing date of the project. Despite holding a
later meeting in May 2012, no meetings were held by the end of December 2011, and the
end target is therefore not met.
63.    Prior Action 3. The Urban Transport Division (Division des Déplacements
Urbains et du Transport - DDUT) of the General Directorate of Local Governments of
the Ministry of Interior became operational.
64.     Description of Prior Action 3. The DDUT plays an important role in supervising
the technical management of the sector at a national level and in supporting local
authorities in planning, organizing and managing urban transports. Staff have been
nominated to the division’s main management positions and a priority work plan has



                                            14
been adopted which adequately covers all the subject matters in which the division
should be involved.
65.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 3. The urban transport
division of the general directorate of local governments of the Ministry of Interior has
now become the technical focal point for central government action in the sector and the
complement of the CNDU, which it is meant to support at a technical level. It has
demonstrated its usefulness in the recent past by managing government programs in the
sector, particularly the fund dedicated for the preparation of urban transport master plans,
by reviewing large investment proposals in Casablanca and Rabat-Salé-Témara, by
launching a coordinated action plan for improving traffic management, and by being the
central point for collection and dissemination of information in the sector. The
agreements signed between the DDUT and local governments constitute a first step
toward structuring state support and defining priority actions for local authorities. They
clearly underline the commitment of local governments to developing and implementing
efficient urban transport strategies and they include aspects pertaining to the
improvement of the governance of the sector at the local level.
66.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
met. Four conventions on urban transport issues have been signed between the Ministry
of Interior and the cities of Agadir, Kenitra, Oujda and Settat.
Component A.3: Widespread and multi-level development of national expertise in the
urban transport sector
67.    Prior Action 4. The Ministry of Interior carried out a training program for a core
group of managers in the urban transport sector.
68.     Description of Prior Action 4. The training program took place from February to
October 2010 and included about thirty people from 11 cities. It consisted of five sessions
of three to four days each and was organized by one of Morocco’s leading engineering
university (Ecole Hassania des Travaux Publics) under funding and management from
the Ministry of Interior’s Training Directorate. The content of the training was elaborated
together with practitioners in order to fulfill priority needs. It covered the following five
themes: (i) urban transport planning and strategy formulation; (ii) organization and
financing of public transport (including public-private partnerships); (iii) operational
aspects of urban transport strategy implementation; (iv) organization and financing of
parking; and (v) traffic management. The sessions were delivered by balanced teams of
local and international experts. A key objective was to pass on to Moroccans experts the
lessons of experience from successful cities in middle-income countries. The evaluations
carried out after the sessions showed highly positive feedback from the participants.
69.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 4. People trained through
the training program now share a basic competence in the sector and follow a common
approach to sector issues and activities. This result of the program is important as it helps
ensure the quality of the urban transport master plans to be produced in many large cities
as well as the stability and consistency of actions taken in the sector. Feedbacks on the
program are positive and it is being continued in 2012. In addition to continuing the
program, and following interest from participants, in depth training on select urban
transport management topics will be also organized by the Ministry of Interior. Finally, it


                                             15
should be noted that the training has allowed for the exchange of experiences in various
Moroccan cities on urban transport activities, and that an informal network of urban
transport experts is being created to share the relative experiences and mutually assist
each other on urban transport issues.
70.    Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
met. 32 experts from 11 cities benefited from the urban transport training program, which
will be continued in 2012. Together with a similar program carried out by the World
Bank with French Aid in 2008, around 55 persons have been trained in total, forming a
core group of manager who share basic competences in the sector, and common approach
and a pool of information.
Policy Area 2: Improving the efficiency and increasing the supply of urban
transport services and infrastructure
Component B.1: Restructuring of bus services and operators contracts
71.    Component B.1 included two actions, each measured by a separate indicator.
These are summarized below:
72.     Prior Action 5. The contract between the concerned municipalities of the
agglomeration of Rabat-Salé-Témara and the operator of bus services Stareo became
effective.
73.    Description of Prior Action 5. Services by the previous informal operators were
discontinued and the new operator Stareo started to provide bus service immediately.
74.      Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 5. Performance of the
reform supported by Prior Action 5. Prior to the arrival of Stareo, urban bus services
were provided in the Rabat-Salé- Témara metropolitan area by about ten small to medium
size bus operators, each with about twenty to fifty buses of diverse manufacturers and
sizes. Although these operators were established companies, they functioned in a very
weak legal and institutional environment: their service contracts with local authorities
had not been renewed for several years, they did not have any service standards, and the
route network which they served was often obsolete. Moreover, they had a monopoly
situation on their routes and were not accountable to any authority. As a result, bus
services were overall which prompted the authorities to launch a competitive bidding to
select a single private operator. Stareo was selected and started services under difficult
circumstances due the strong opposition of some of the previous operators. However it
renewed the bus fleet, rationalized the route network, absorbed many of the staff and
buses of the previous operators, and considerably increased service on some previously
neglected routes like those linking Rabat to the fast developing western part of the
agglomeration. Yet, mainly because it had far overestimated the potential growth in
demand, and offered a very low tariff in the competitive bidding process through which it
was selected, Stareo’s revenues could not meet its operating costs. In view of the local
governments’ refusal to consider a renegotiation of its contract, including especially a
tariff increase, Stareo abruptly filed for bankruptcy and was shortly thereafter taken over
by the municipalities of Rabat, Salé, and Témara, with their financial support and a
stronger management. The authorities are now drawing the lessons of this experience and
searching for a long-term solution that will ensure the sustainable provision of bus



                                            16
services under a renewed public-private partnership arrangement in the agglomeration of
Rabat-Salé-Témara. The potential creation of a single agency in charge of organizing and
managing both the bus and the tramway network in the agglomeration is also being
discussed.
75.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
met. The number of seat-km provided in 2011 amounted to 2.26 billion, which is above
the end target set at 2.0 billion. However while the quantitative objective of this prior
action has been met, primarily due to the purchase of new buses by Stareo, the transition
to a new organization has proven to be difficult and was not successfully achieved with a
private concessionnaire as anticipated.
76.    Prior Action 6. Key measures were taken to restructure the provision of bus
services in the agglomeration of Casablanca.
77.     Description of Prior Action 6. The restructuring plan of Casablanca’s bus services
included (i) the signature of a convention between the municipality of Casablanca and the
new operator of bus services, M’dina bus for a US $25 million grant for bus fleet renewal
and staff reduction in M’dina Bus, (ii) the approval of a change in the capital structure of
M’dina bus with a major role being taken by the National Investment Bank (Caisse de
Dépôts et de Gestion – CDG), (iii) the approval of an investment convention between the
state and M’dina bus for the purchase of a large number of new buses, and (iv) the
issuance to the previous bus operators of a notice to terminate their contracts.
78.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 6. Changes induced by this
reform ensured that all bus services in the Casablanca agglomeration would be placed
under only one management and supervisory structure, and provided by a strengthened
operator with appropriate financial capability. Despite the achievement of significant
progress, two key actions from the restructuring plan of M’dina bus have yet to be
undertaken. The first one is the phasing out of those concessionaires that have stayed
partially active since the end of their contract in 2009. These concessionaires were
expected to stay active until M’dina bus reached full capacity butthe phasing out of these
concessions has not taken place yet despite M’dina bus having largely met its capacity
targets. It is important that authorities assess the need for maintaining additional
concessionaires in Casablanca while keeping in mind the necessity to balance out both
the interests of M’dina bus and the importance of having an adequate supply of public
transportation. The second one is the restructuring of the bus network, which will be
possible when the study currently undertaken by AODU is finished, which will also allow
for an efficient coordination between the operations of M’dina bus and those of the
tramway and address urgent issues such as tariff integration between the bus and the
tramway systems. Additional institutional measures are required to allow for this, in
particular, the AODU should be strengthened in order to be able to play a more active
role as a regulatory authority for all public transportation in Casablanca.
79.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
partially met: Despite an increase in supply of M’dina bus service from 1.9 billion seat-
km in 2009 to close to 2.4 billion seat-km in 2011, this remained below the end target
value of 2.6 billion seat-km.




                                            17
Component B.2: Improvement of the regulatory and institutional framework for public
private partnerships
80.    Prior Action 7. The Minister of Interior issued an order (Arrêté) on August 25,
2010, setting forth the selection process for public services concessionaires in accordance
with Law 54.05 dated February 16, 2006, and the main stipulations of the concession
contracts.
81.    Description of Prior Action 7. The order specified the procedures for bidding, bid
evaluation, contract award and the main clauses of concession contracts.
82.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 7. The order has been
published in the Official Journal of Local Authorities (Journal des Collectivités Locales)
and is therefore applicable. The preparation of this regulation necessitated a long
coordination process between all ministerial departments involved. The quality of the
final text reflected the strong experience and understanding of public private partnerships
in Morocco. The impact, which will be evidenced mostly on the long term, will be fair,
fully competitive, and transparent selection of private providers of public transport
services. It should be noted that while this reform action focused on improving the
transparency of the concessioning process in the sector and improving competition,
additional reforms should be considered to address commercial risk attributions in public
transport contracts to limit the risk of future situations such as the bankruptcy of Stareo.
83.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
met. The August 25, 2010 Arrêté is in place and enforceable. However, no concessions
have been issued this year, and the compliance with this regulation could therefore not be
tested yet.
Component B.3: Funding of urban transport services and infrastructure
84.    Prior Action 8. The Ministry of Interior issued a Circular (Circulaire) dated
November 4, 2010, defining the eligibility criteria for state funding of urban transport
investment projects.
85.     Description of Prior Action 8. The criteria reflect the key institutional points of
the government’s reform program for the sector and ensure that government financial
assistance is focused on the most effective projects.
86.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 8. The eligibility criteria
provide a strong incentive to municipalities to develop their institutional capacity, to put
in place multimodal sector strategies and priority investment programs, and to conceive
their investments within the context of the strategies. This ensures that local authorities
are well prepared to undertake urban transport investments and provide the government
with the necessary information to properly assess and prioritize these investments.
87.      Outcome of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is met. The
eligibility criteria have been defined but no project came forward for central government
financing this past year in order to test whether the eligibility criteria were properly
implemented.




                                            18
Policy Area 3: Improving the environmental and social sustainability of urban
transport
Component C.1: Improving air quality in large agglomerations
88.     Prior Action 9. The Ministry of Equipment and Transport completed the
restructuring of the vehicle inspection centers.
89.     Description of Prior Action 9. The restructuring comprised the establishment of
an automated electronic process for preparing the vehicle technical inspection reports and
the selection of a firm for technical and financial audit of the vehicle inspection centers.
90.     Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 9. The reforms
implemented inspection procedures that substantially reduce the likelihood of fraud by (i)
directly and automatically reporting the recorded measures from inspection equipment to
secured and standardized electronic sheets, and (ii) directly and electronically
communicating the results of the inspections from the various centers to the Ministry of
Transport where the bar-coded electronic sheets are issued. As a result, the quality of
vehicle inspections improved drastically and the Ministry of Equipment and Transport
was able to properly monitor the roadworthiness of vehicles and their emissions of
pollutants. The renovated system of vehicle inspection is functioning well, with all
vehicle inspection centers working in network with three certified operators: Decra, SGS
and Salama. In addition, the company in charge of auditing both the inspection centers
and the certified operators has started operations. To complement the reform of the
inspection centers, additional measures to improve air quality are also being taken: (i)
Euro 4 norms have been adopted for all imported vehicles and should be adopted
progressively for all vehicles produced or assembled in Morocco, (ii) all imported
vehicles have to be less than five years old and, (iii) the definition of tighter emission
thresholds by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment is currently
underway.
91.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
partially met. The number of car inspection visits that have had their report issued
through the automated electronic process in 2010 (1,686,007 visits reported) is very close
to the indicator’s end target(1.7 million). Furthermore, the slight drop in the car
inspection visits in 2011 (1,606,013 visits reported) is also a result of the success of the
prior action undertaken. Indeed, the drop can be explained by the fact that the number of
cars having to undergo re-inspection has gone down: car owners, aware of the stringency
of car inspections, tend to repair their vehicles before taking them for inspection. The
desired outcome of this reform action was therefore achieved.
Component C.2: Improving the accessibility of persons with limited mobility
92.    Prior Action 10. The Ministry of Social Development, Family and Solidarity in
consultation with relevant ministries, adopted an action plan to improve the accessibility
of people with limited mobility and organized a national seminar to raise awareness and
disseminate the action plan.
93.    Description of Prior Action 10. The action plan focused on reinforcing the
regulatory, institutional, technical, and awareness framework regarding the accessibility
of persons with limited mobility and required actions from the four ministries of Interior,


                                            19
Transport, Housing, and Social Development. The ministry of Finance was also
associated.
Performance of the reform supported by Prior Action 10.
94.    The draft action plan was presented and discussed in April 2010 at a national
conference on accessibility in Marrakesh. The conference was attended by senior
government officials, civil society representatives, as well as the Bank project team.
Following the action plan’ finalization and adoption, the government is currently quite
active on implementing its actions: the government has approved the draft execution
decree of the law 10-03 on accessibility, the Ministry of Housing is studying the
accessibility requirements that need to be included in the new construction code, the
Ministry of Interior is demanding additional attention to accessibility in urban transport
master plans and the Ministry of Transport is developing detailed action plan for all
agencies and departments it oversees.
95.    The efforts that took place in the context of the preparation of the DPL have
created a positive dynamic and raised the awareness on the issue of the accessibility of
both at the national and at the local level. In additional to the ministries’ actions on
accessibility, cities like Marrakech, Rabat, and Oujda have started addressing
accessibility in the design and construction of their urban infrastructure.
96.     Outcome indicator of the reform. The end target of this prior action’s indicator is
met. The city of Marrakech has a US $2 million pilot accessibility project underway
financed by grant from the government of Japan. The grant will finance infrastructure-
upgrading work in the city to improve the accessibility of selected infrastructure. To a
lesser extent, other cities like Rabat and Oujda have also started undertaking accessibility
infrastructure-upgrading work.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
97.     The high continued relevance of objectives, design and implementation and Bank
support to urban transport sector through the DPL instrument, combined with the
achievement of the main indicators with shortcomings on three expected outcomes justify
a rating of Moderately Satisfactory. The fact that the CNDU, which will have to play an
important role in the urban transport sector, has not effectively started its activities is an
important shortcoming that impacts the rating.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Climate change mitigation and energy efficiency.
98.    The impact of DPL measures in terms of reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
emissions was estimated by the DPL preparation team at about 400,000 Tons/year. These
reductions result primarily from the implementation of the vehicle inspection centers’
reforms (GHG emissions reduction of about 350,000 Tons/year) and the restructuring of
bus operations in Rabat and Casablanca (GHG emissions reduction conservatively
estimated at about 50,000 Tons/year): The reform of vehicle inspection centers has
improved the quality and regularity of vehicle inspections, which in turn leads to an


                                             20
improved maintenance and operations of the existing vehicle fleet in Morocco, and an
improved quality of imported second- hand vehicles. Meanwhile, the restructuring of bus
services improves buses’ technical quality and efficiency of operations. Both measures
have a large effect on fuel efficiency and GHG emissions. The introduction of Euro 4
norms and tighter vehicle emissions thresholds will likely induce additional reduction in
GHG emissions.
(b) Social development impact.
99.     Accessibility of people with limited mobility. The efforts that took place
through the DPL have created a positive dynamic and raised the awareness on the issue
of the accessibility of people with limited mobility, both at the national and at the local
level. The result is that several public and private agencies have been taking measures to
address accessibility: the railway company is including accessibility in its station
upgrading plans, bus operators are increasingly aware of the needs of persons with
disabilities, and select cities are attempting to improve the accessibility of sidewalks and
pedestrian environment. In addition, the Bank assisted in mobilizing a US $3 million
PHRD grant to finance a pilot accessibly project in Morocco for persons with limited
mobility. The grant will primarily finance infrastructure-upgrading work in the city of
Marrakesh (about US $2 million) to improve the accessibility of sidewalks, pedestrian
crossings, public spaces/gardens and select public buildings in the city. The remaining
US $1 million will fund a technical assistance program that will support the four
ministries involved in the implementation of the government action plan on accessibility
through revising and producing the necessary regulations, technical guidelines, norms
and standards for physical accessibility, and launching awareness campaigns on
accessibility in Morocco.
100. Gender issues. A study on gender and transport was completed for the city of
Casablanca as part of the dialogue on urban transport, the results of which were presented
in a workshop. The Casablanca workshop, which was a success, included municipalities,
civil society organizations and the press, and it helped put the issue of gender and urban
transport in the limelight in Morocco.
(c) Capacity building and human resources development in the sector
101. Participants to the training program provided a positive feedback on the program
and there are indications that they constitute now a core group of managers that function
as a network and as a professional practice. Additional important actions are also
currently being envisaged by the government and academic institutions, such as the
training of elected officials, the creation of a specialized master degree in urban transport,
and the organization of yearly events to strengthen the emerging urban transport network.
As it is, the training component of the DPL has contributed to the emergence of a broader
human resource development strategy in the urban transport sector in Morocco,
something that was called for by the national strategy for urban transport.
(d) Increased technical assistance for urban transport investment projects.
102. A broad policy dialogue on the urban transport sector took place within the
context of the DPL, involving both central and local governments. This dialogue allowed
the World Bank to engage government agencies on specific investment projects and to



                                             21
bring a small and yet important technical assistance to planned investments in select
Moroccan cities, such as the tramway and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) projects in
Casablanca and the BRT project in Marrakech. Besides providing support to policy
reforms, the DPL thus helped increase the technical assistance for transport investment
projects in Morocco.


(e) Increased governments support to urban transport project investments
103. The DPL and the preparation of the country’s national urban transport program
provided the opportunity for central and local authorities to engage in a broad policy
dialogue on the urban transport sector. In the course of this, the Moroccan Government
became more aware of the limited capacity of local authorities to finance urban transport
projects. Indeed, large undertakings such as BRT and tramway projects cannot be
achieved by municipalities without state financing and support. The DPL helped put in
place a governance structure at the local level to facilitate the management of urban
transport in Morocco, such as with the ramping up of Casablanca’s AODU. The
strengthening of governance and the setting up of central government financing eligibility
criteria encouraged municipalities to heighten their financial discipline and to put in place
a stronger sector planning. As a result, central authorities in Morocco have a greater
confidence in the quality of projects proposed for state financing as they are based on
sounder economic assessments and thorough studies. Consequently the Government of
Morocco has been increasing its financing of investments in the sector, which had started
with the Rabat and Casablanca’s tramways. As such, the DPL contributed indirectly to
increasing central government support to urban transport projects in Morocco.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
104. Commitments to the reform and interagency cooperation risk. Urban
transport is usually a complicated issue which requires continuous and significant
coordination between the various relevant ministries at the central level, and the
coordination between the central and local authorities. Despite measures taken to address
these issues in Morocco, inter-ministerial cooperation is appearing difficult and is not yet
fully institutionalized, and this is witnessed by the fact that the meeting of the CNDU has
been substantially delayed, despite the important role it is expected to assume in
following up on the sector strategy and reinforcing inter-ministerial cooperation.
105. The potential risk is mitigated by the fact that despite initial delays, the CNDU
has finally met on May 23, 2012 and started its operations. Delays were explained on a
pure administrative basis and there do not seem to be major hindrances for the CNDU to
assume its role properly. In the meantime, and while awaiting for an institutionalized
collaboration on urban transport, government agencies have been increasingly taking
measures, separately or through informal cooperation, to tackle urban transport issues,
each within their own competency. This of course is less efficient or preferred to a
properly coordinated approach; nevertheless it has been important in addressing some of
the sector challenges and highlights the government commitment to reforming the sector.



                                             22
106. The risk that a modest performance of the sector’s institutions might
diminish the authorities’ interest in continuing the reform program as planned.
Institutional building is a lengthy process that requires sustained efforts. The institutions
created or supported through this reform program need to benefit from continuous
monitoring and assistance from relevant authorities to ensure their success in meeting
their objectives. This is particularly important for Casablanca’s AODU given that it is the
first metropolitan transport agency in Morocco of some sort. The relative success of
Casablanca’s AODU will have substantial impact on the decision of other Moroccan
agglomerations to adopt a similar governance structure for the management of the urban
transport sector.
107. This potential risk is mitigated by the following: as discussed in section 3 of this
report, while Casablanca’s AODU has not yet become a full fledged urban transport
authority, with financial and institutional independence, it nevertheless already assumes
an important role in transportation planning and coordination and enjoys the authorities
support. The ICR team has learned that the further reinforcement of the AODU role will
be among the important reform actions to be supported in the planned second urban
transport DPL. In addition, the government seems keen in having metropolitan authorities
in other large agglomerations, and such an authority, with role and functions to be yet
defined, is already being discussed for Rabat.
108. Risk of financial sustainability of the sector and efficient allocation of
resources: The capacity of local authorities to provide co-financing for their planned
mass transit systems, and notably to cover the expected operation and maintenance
deficits of these systems is currently limited.1 The DPL has supported the definition of
eligibility criteria to rationalize urban transport investments. Nevertheless, local
authorities still find it challenging to mobilize co-financing for the capital investments,
and most importantly to find the necessary resources to cover the operating and
maintenance costs of these systems. With the Rabat tramway now operational, and
Casablanca’s tramway soon to follow, the financial sustainability of the sector, partially
addressed by the eligibility criteria, might become at risk and needs to be properly
assessed.
109. This potential risk is mitigated by the fact that authorities were initially primarily
concerned in ensuring proper mechanisms for financing and launching important urban
transport investments in Morocco. With the tramways now operational, the O&M costs
have become real and the ICR team has found authorities quite aware of this additional
challenge. There are ongoing discussions between authorities on ways to systematically
address this, including possibly allowing additional tax revenues to municipalities to
cover such expenses.




1
  In many cities around the world, fares on mass transit systems are set at low levels, below that required to cover
O&M costs, in order to meet socio-economic objectives. This usually results in recurrent deficits which are covered
from subsidies (usually from local authorities) and/or additional revenue generating mechanisms (vehicle registration
taxes, parking charges….).




                                                        23
110. Private sector participation in the financing and operations of public
transport remain fragile. As discussed in section 1.1.2, bus service contracts are
currently net cost contracts that shift all commercial risks to operators. While the failure
of Stareo in Rabat could be attributed to multiple reasons, it could be argued that some
reasons behind this failure resulted from the contract conditions.
111. The Rabat recent bus concession experience has brought the issue of contract
conditions for transport operators to the attention of the authorities, and resulted in a
dialogue on ways to better address these issues in the future, including possibly a revision
to contract conditions. In addition, it should be noted that while this model has recently
failed in Rabat, private sector bus concessions have been relatively successful for a long
time in other cities in Morocco, notably Marrakesh and Tangier.
112. Overall, and following the above analysis, it is not very likely that any single risk
stemming from the institutional complexity of the sector, combined with financial, and
economic risks will materialize. Further, mitigation measures are in place going forward
and the government remains fully committed to the program justifying an overall risk
rating of moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
113. The DPL reform areas were very well aligned with the main themes of the
government strategy for the sector. The design choice of a single tranche DPL, to be later
followed by other single tranches to further support the reforms, has permitted to advance
the more matured reform actions in the overall government program, thus ensuring
flexibility and realism while meeting the government reform program’s objectives. The
Bank played an important catalytic role in facilitating inter-agency dialogue on
contentious issues, as well as transferring knowledge based on international experience.
The design of the DPL program benefited greatly from a base of analytical work done in
a highly participatory way and the project team has allocated the necessary effort and
time for project preparation to ensure that the reform program had matured.
(b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements)
Ratings: Satisfactory
114. Despite being a single tranch DPL with a short supervision time (of almost 5
month only), the DPL program implementation has been supervised thoroughly by the
Bank task team. Two missions were carried out during implementation with detailed
supervision reports and aide memoires. The supervision included a detailed follow up on
the progress of the different components with all agencies involved, with each agency
responsible for the collection of the M&E indicator relevant to its respective actions. The
findings were discussed with the government and corrective measures taken when
needed. The careful supervision helped to build strong relation between the client and the
Bank, as confirmed by government counterparts during the ICR mission.


                                            24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Ratings: Satisfactory
115. A satisfactory Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision justifies
an overall satisfactory Bank performance which underlines a well-designed and
implemented operation.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Ratings: Satisfactory
116. The implementation of the reform program required the execution of the prior
actions by multiple ministries, namely the ministries of Interior, Transport, and Social
Development. Several other ministries were substantially consulted during the program
preparation and implementation (Housing, Energy and Environment, Finance, and
General Affairs) in addition to local authorities in the major agglomerations. M&E data
was collected by the relevant departments and discussed during supervision missions.
The substantial efforts undertaken by all involved in the program to implement prior
actions and follow up on shortcomings in implementation highlighted the government
commitment to the program and to achieving its development objectives, overall resulting
in a satisfactory rating of government performance.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Ratings: Moderately Satisfactory
117. The implementation of the program involved multiple ministries as discussed
above, nevertheless the Ministry of Interior was the designated implementing agency
given that urban transport falls under its responsibilities. The Ministry of Interior played
an important role in coordinating the actions of this program and in facilitating the
dialogue with several agencies, notably at local level. The Ministry of Interior was also
responsible in directly implementing a large number of prior actions, some of which were
very important to the reform of the sector and notably to its governance, and it was
generally successful in doing so.
118. Nevertheless, and despite its efforts, inter-ministerial coordination during the
project preparation and implementation was only partially achieved and the Bank team
had sometimes to follow up directly with other relevant ministries. There were also some
delays in the execution of some of the reform actions, notably regarding the issuance of
the Circular establishing the CNDU, and in following up on the implementation of the
reforms, such as calling a meeting for the CNDU.
119. The above analysis justifies a moderately successfully rating for the implementing
agency.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Ratings: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            25
120. The government and implementing agency have made important efforts for
implementing this reform program for a relatively complex sector. The ratings of (a) and
(b) above justify an overall borrower performance rating of moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
121. Given its important policy implications, the timely and successful
implementation of the DPL reform program requires continuous support from
senior government counterparts. Moroccan authorities generally have the know-how to
prepare and carry out large investments, whereas it is more difficult for them to improve
policy and regulatory frameworks with the required institutional and capacity building.
The success of DPL thus hinges on ensuring ownership at the highest levels of
government as well as at the technical levels as it increases commitment to the project
development objectives and facilitates implementation. Experience with past projects
shows that successful DPLs ensured counterparts commitment and ownership from the
onset of the project, something confirmed by the DPL under review. Indeed, the risks
associated with the multiplicity of implementing agencies, and the sometimes divergent
views regarding the respective roles of the various existing and newly created agencies
(such as the role and composition of the CNDU, the role and governance structure of the
AODU…) were assuaged by the strong involvement of senior Moroccan counterparts on
key issues, thus ensuring the progress on reforms during the implementation of the DPL.
122. While awaiting the development of the required institutions to fully assume
their intended functions, the Bank has to initially play an important role as a
catalyst in fostering program coordination. A main lesson from this urban transport
DPL is that reforms requiring inter-ministerial coordination have moved more slowly
than others. The DPL involved various stakeholders in different ministries and
government agencies, both nationally and locally. In order to achieve a successful
implementation of the proposed reforms, it was essential to build consensus among the
different stakeholders and ensure smooth cooperation. The World Bank, as is the case
with other past DPLs, played the role of catalyst to foster such coordination among
implementation agencies. The CNDU, which is the newly created commission in charge
of initiating and coordination Government action in Morocco’s urban transport sector,
was not yet fully operational by the closing date of the DPL. In the case of future urban
transport DPLs, this commission should take on an important monitoring and
coordination role. The potential second urban transport DPL currently under
consideration should thus make sure that the CNDU has become fully operational. It
should also consider all possible actions to strengthen coordination of DPL stakeholders
during the implementation phase.
123. Future urban transport DPLs should be accompanied by investment lending
and technical assistance operations. The DPL is an appropriate instrument for
supporting urban transport sector institutional and legal reforms in Morocco, as the
country is proceeding step by step in a medium term program. However, while the DPL
was a well designed and implemented operation which was clearly aligned with both the
Bank and the borrower’s objectives, by its nature, it could not affect decision making at
the local level since this depends on many factors, mainly political, which were beyond
the DPL. Since urban transport strategies and projects are conceived and implemented by


                                           26
local authorities, building capacity there and handholding/incentivizing their decision
making process is therefore essential. This can be done by accompanying urban transport
DPLs with investment lending and technical assistance projects. Indeed, this type of
operations can help ensure that there is acquisition of technical expertise by local
stakeholders, thus allowing for the successful achievement of the DPL’s reform
objective. The accessibility component of the DPL under review is a good example of
such parallel operations. The mobilization of a grant to finance a pilot accessibility and
technical assistance project in Marrakech markedly contributes to the successful
implementation of the social development reform of the DPL and by allowing local
implementing agencies to gain financial and technical capacity.
124. Single tranche DPLs are an adequate instrument to undertake urban
transport sector reform in Morocco, provided they are allowed a longer
implementation period to properly measure the impacts of the reforms. Morocco is a
good case of using successive single tranche adjustment loans as an effective way to
assist structural reform, provided there is a link to an agreed medium-term reform
program with well broadly defined milestones and transparent triggers per subsequent
operation. In a complex sector such as urban transport, series of single tranche DPLs
allow for flexibility in pushing reforms that are implemented at different speeds.
Furthermore, they make it easier to adapt and accompany reforms when priorities shift
with time. Given their short implementation period however, it is difficult to assess the
full success of single tranche DPLs. In the case of the DPL under review the
implementation period of the program was only about 5 month, and the improvement of
the regulatory and institutional framework for public private partnerships could not be
tested as no new concessions were issued before the DPL’s closing date. Similarly, no
new project came forward for central government financing this past year and it was not
possible to measure the improvement of the funding of urban transport services and
infrastructure following the implementation of the actions planned by the DPL. On this
specific aspect, programmatic DPLs provide additional insurance for the sustainability of
reform as they build more directly on previous reforms. The definition of indicators and
end target when preparing a single tranche DPL has thus to be done while bearing in
mind the short monitoring time frame allowed by this type of lending instrument.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
125. The draft ICR was discussed and shared with the borrower and implementation
agency during its preparation. Counterparts share the overall assessment of the Bank. The
borrower own assessment of the project is attached in annex 4.




                                           27
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
          Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Fatiha Amar              Program Assistant                 MNSSD
Gael Gregoire            Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTEN
                         Senior Financial Management
Anas Abou El Mikias                                        MNAFM
                         Specialist
Jean-Charles Crochet     Senior Transport Economist        AFTTR TTL
Jean-Charles De Daruvar Senior Counsel                     LEGEM
Maryvonne Dejeammes Consultant                             MNSSD
Ziad Salim EL Nakat      Transport Specialist              MNSTR
Khalid El Massnaoui      Senior Economist                  MNSED
Andrea Liverani          Senior Social Development Spec    MNSSO
Paul Noumba Um           Sector Manager                    AFTFW
Stefano Paternostro      Lead Economist                    MNSED
Gilles Georges Jean Leon
                         Consultant                        MNSSD
Pipien
Khadija Sebbata          Program Assistant                 MNCMA

Supervision
Yassine Cherkaoui         Consultant                       MNSEG
Jean-Charles Crochet      Senior Transport Economist       AFTTR
Paolo Custodio            Consultant                       MNSSD
Ziad Salim EL Nakat       Transport Specialist             MNSTR TTL
Olivier Le Ber            Lead Transport Specialist        MNSTR
Angeline Mani             Program Assistant                MNSSD
Khadija Sebbata           Program Assistant                MNCMA

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
            Stage
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending

                          Total:                                   423
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                                   141




                                        28
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                   30
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    31
                    ROYAUME DU MAROC
            PROGRAMME D’ACTIONS PRIORITAIRES
         POUR LE SECTEUR DES DEPLACEMENTS URBAINS
             RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PREMIER PPD



INTRODUCTION
Le Maroc a entamé, depuis quelques décennies, un processus de développement
économique et social accompagné d’une dynamique urbaine et d’une croissance rapide
des villes. Désormais la population urbaine représente près de 60% de la population total,
soit 18 millions de citadins sur une population globale de 30 millions d’habitants.
L’accroissement de la population urbaine de 2,85% par an, le développement des
activités et les mutations économiques et sociales contribuent fortement à la croissance de
la mobilité des individus et des besoins en déplacements. Cependant, l’offre du service de
transport public ne permet pas d’accompagner ces mutations et de répondre au mieux aux
attentes des citoyens.
De ce fait, le Maroc est appelé à faire face à de grands défis dans les années à venir pour
satisfaire les besoins grandissants des citoyens en transports publics et améliorer les
conditions de la mobilité dans les villes.
C’est pourquoi l’Etat a élaboré avec l’appui de la Banque Mondiale et en concertation
avec les différents acteurs concernés, une Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains
pour la réforme du secteur du transport public et l’amélioration de la mobilité urbaine
dans les grandes villes.
Pour l’accompagnement de la mise en œuvre de cette stratégie, le Gouvernement a
introduit une requête auprès de la Banque Mondiale en vue de bénéficier des Prêts de
Politique de Développement (PPD). Suite à cette requête et aux chantiers engagés sur la
voie de la réforme, un premier PPD de 100 M€ a été accordée au Maroc, en juin 2011,
sur une série de 3 prêts de 100 M€ qui seront débloqués sur 2 à 3 tranches, étalées sur une
période de 3 à 5 ans.
Le déblocage du 1er PPD a été sur la base de l’engagement d’un ensemble de mesures de
réformes retenues dans le Programme d’Actions Prioritaires.
Le présent rapport a pour objet d’évaluer l’état d’avancement de ces différentes mesures
de réformes, à travers des indicateurs de suivi adoptés en 2010 à l’occasion de la
préparation du PPD.

   I-      CONTEXTE ET OBJECTIFS DE LA STRATEGIE
           NATIONALE DES DEPLACEMENTS URBAINS
   1- Contexte de la mobilité urbaine
Le service du transport public urbain souffre depuis plusieurs décennies de nombreuses
insuffisances qui se manifestent par la faiblesse de l’offre et son incapacité à satisfaire les


                                              32
besoins des citoyens en déplacements. A titre d’illustration, le mode autobus n’assure
aujourd’hui que 14 % des déplacements à Rabat, 13% à Casablanca et seulement 4% à
Marrakech. La marche-à-pied reste le mode prépondérant, avec respectivement 66%,
54% et 60% de l’ensemble des déplacements.
La faiblesse de l’offre en transport collectif se conjugue avec une mauvaise gestion de la
voirie et de la circulation pour aboutir à un dysfonctionnement global de la mobilité
urbaine.
A l’origine de ce dysfonctionnement, la fragilité du cadre institutionnel, organisationnel,
de planification et surtout de financement.
   2- Objectifs et axes des réformes
Compte tenu de l’importance des transports urbains dans la cohésion sociale,
l’amélioration de la qualité de vie des citoyens et le développement de la compétitivité
des villes et dans le cadre de l’accompagnement de l’Etat aux Collectivités Territoriales
pour la mise à niveau du secteur, le Ministère de l’Intérieur a élaboré une Stratégie
Nationale des Déplacements Urbains à l’issue d’une étude réalisée en 2006 avec l’appui
technique de la Banque Mondiale.
La Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains, largement concertée et validée en
2008 par tous les partenaires, fixe les orientations et les principaux axes de la réforme du
secteur, déclinés en un plan d’action qui vise :
          1- le renforcement du cadre institutionnel, législatif et réglementaire ;
          2- l’ancrage de la planification ;
          3- la priorité au transport public ;
          4- l’amélioration de la gestion de la voirie et de l’utilisation de l’espace ;
          5- la mise en place de mécanismes durables de financement.
   3- Les premières réalisations
D’importantes avancées sont déjà enregistrées dans le processus de mise en œuvre de
cette stratégie, suite à l’engagement de plusieurs actions, dont on peut citer :
- La réforme du cadre institutionnel, législatif et réglementaire
Les premières réformes initiées ont visé le renforcement du cadre institutionnelle et de
gouvernance. L’amendement de la charte communale (Loi 17-08 du 18 Février 2009) a
été l’occasion pour introduire un nouveau instrument institutionnel permettant aux
Collectivités Territoriales de se constituer en Groupements d’Agglomérations pour la
réalisation et la gestion de services d'intérêt commun. L’objectif est l’amélioration des
mécanismes de gestion des services publics en réseau, notamment les transports publics,
ainsi que la mutualisation des moyens et l’optimisation de l’emploi des ressources.
La nouvelle charte communale a également accordé aux Collectivités Territoriales le
droit de créer des Sociétés de Développement Locale (SDL) et de participer à leur capital
et ce, pour l’exécution d’une activité à caractère commercial et industriel.
Un projet de Loi spécifique aux déplacements urbains a été élaboré. Il prévoit l’ancrage
de la planification à travers la généralisation des plans de déplacements urbains (PDU), la


                                                 33
définition et l’organisation des transports publics et le renforcement de la gouvernance du
secteur au niveau local.
Une autorité organisatrice des déplacements urbains et des transports à Casablanca
(AODU) à été créée à Casablanca en juillet 2008, dans un cadre conventionnel, comme
action pilote.
- L’appui financier
L’Etat a crée en 2007 un fonds de soutien au transport public de 400 MDH, dont 200
MDH pour le transport rurbain (150 MDH pour la compensation du manque à gagner
scolaire et universitaire et 50 MDH pour la réforme du secteur des taxis).
Pour le développement et la modernisation de l’offre en transports public, l’Etat apporte
un soutien financier aux projets de transport de masse en site propres, notamment aux
projets de tramway de Casablanca et de Rabat-Salé. Le montant d’investissement du
projet de tramway de Casablanca est de 6,4 Mds DH et celui de Rabat-Salé, est de 3,8
Mds de DH.
- L’appui à la planification
L’objectif de la planification est de remédier aux divers dysfonctionnements dans le système
de mobilité urbaine et de satisfaire les besoins en transport public dus à la croissance rapide
de la demande
De ce fait, les Plans de Déplacements Urbains (PDU) sont des documents incontournables
de planification en matière de mobilité urbaine et dont la mie en œuvre contribue
substantiellement à l’amélioration des conditions de la mobilité et au développement d’une
offre en transport public moderne et compétitive.
En vue d’inciter les villes à élaborer leurs PDU, le Ministère de l’Intérieur s’est engagé à les
appuyer aussi bien sur le plan financier que sur le plan technique et méthodologique :
      Soutien Financier à la planification
Dès 2008, le Ministère de l’Intérieur a adopté une démarche qui consiste à contribuer au
financement des études PDU à hauteur de 50% du coût de l’étude et dans la limite de 10
Millions de DH. Une circulaire d’information et de sensibilisation des Collectivités
Territoriales sur la démarche PDU a été transmise, le 15 juillet 2008, aux Walis de 6
Régions : Fès-Boulemane, Meknès-Tafilalt, Sous-Massa-Draa, Doukkala-Abda, Gharb-
Chrarda-Ben Hssein et l’Oriental.
Suite à cette circulaire, le feed-back a été positif et traduit l’adhésion des Collectivités
Territoriales à cette logique PDU.
      Appui technique
Dans la perspective de la généralisation des PDU dans toutes les grandes villes du
Royaume, un premier lot de 7 villes a été sélectionné pour bénéficier du soutien du
Ministère de l’Intérieur : Settat- Kénitra - El Jadida- Safi - Fès- Oujda- Nador.




                                             34
Sur le plan méthodologique, le FEC s’est associé à la DGCL pour mettre en place une
démarche qui consiste à élaborer les PDU en deux étapes :
   o Etape 1 : phase de pré-diagnostic
         Mettre à la disposition des villes concernées un consultant chargé de l’élaboration
         d’un pré-diagnostic, la préparation d’un dossier d’appel d’offres pour l’étude PDU
         (CPS et règlement de consultation).
   o Etape 2 : lancement des marchés des études PDU
         La mission des BET sélectionnés dans la 1ère phase pourrait se prolonger dans cette
         seconde phase à travers l’assistance à la Maîtrise d’Ouvrage pour le suivi de ces
         études afin de garantir une meilleure qualité à cette première génération de PDU au
         Maroc.
        Normalisation de la démarche PDU
Pour la normalisation de la démarche de planification, la DGCL envisage l’élaboration
d’un guide PDU et d’un guide de plan de circulation qui aideront les Collectivités
Territoriales à renforcer leurs capacités de maîtrise d’ouvrage dans le domaine de la
planification des déplacements urbains et de la gestion de la circulation et du
stationnement.
- Le renforcement des capacités des Collectivités Locales
Conformément aux orientations de la stratégie, une Division des Déplacements Urbains
et des Transports a été créée au sein de la DGCL pour la mise en œuvre des programmes
d’accompagnement des Collectivités Territoriales en matière de politiques des
déplacements urbains.
Un premier programme de formation a été organisé en 2008 à l’Ecole Hassania des
Travaux Publics (EHTP), en partenariat avec la Banque Mondiale et le Programme
d’Appui à la Décentralisation (PAD Maroc). Il a été destiné à une trentaine de cadres des
Communes Urbaines, de l’Administration Territoriales et Centrale (DGCL/DPE,
Département de l’Equipement et Agence Urbaine de Casablanca).

   II-      BILAN DES REALISATIONS DU PROGRAMME
            D’ACTIONS PRIORITAIRES AU TITRE DU PPD
Dans la dynamique enclenchée par la stratégie et dans le cadre de l’appui de la Banque
Mondiale à travers les PPD, un Programme d’Actions Prioritaires a été élaboré en
concertation avec les acteurs concernés. Ce programme vise à mettre en œuvre des
réformes selon trois objectifs :
   1- Amélioration de la gouvernance du secteur des déplacements urbains
   a- Mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel approprié dans chaque grande
      agglomération
Le Ministère de l’Intérieur a accompagné, en juillet 2008, la ville de Casablanca pour la
création d’une autorité organisatrice des déplacements urbains et du transport (AODU),
dans un cadre conventionnel, regroupant les différents acteurs territoriaux du Grand
Casablanca. Les missions confiées à l’AODU sont :


                                            35
   1. l’élaboration et le suivi de la mise en œuvre du plan de déplacements
      urbains(PDU) notamment :
      - la mise en œuvre d’une stratégie cohérente et concertée des déplacements
         urbains ;
      - l’évaluation de la demande et l’adaptation de l’offre en matière des transports
         urbains ;
      - le développement des outils d’observation, de suivi et d’évaluation de la
         mobilité et des déplacements urbains ;
      - la proposition d’un réseau de transport public répondant à la demande des
         usagers de façon optimale ;
      - la définition des modalités techniques d’offre du service des transports publics
         urbains ainsi que les conditions générales d'exploitation ;
      - le développement des aménagements garantissant la sécurité routière, la
         fluiditédu trafic et le partage entre les modes ;
   2. Le contrôle des opérateurs des transports publics urbains, le suivi d’exécutiondu
      service et le constat du respect de la réglementation en vigueur et des clausesdes
      contrats d’exploitation et de gestion ;
   3. La coordination entre les différents acteurs pour l’harmonisation de la gestion
      dutrafic ;
   4. La recherche des financements des projets liés aux déplacements urbains.
L’AODU est opérationnelle grâce à ses plans d’actions adoptés par son Conseil
d’administration, au recrutement d’une assistance technique et de cadres chargés de la
préparation des décisions et de l’exécution des orientations stratégiques ainsi qu’au
budget crée pour le financement de ces activités.
A cet égard, l’AODU a initié deux études majeures pour optimiser le système de
transport collectif actuel et améliorer la gestion de la circulation dans la Région du Grand
Casablanca, en préparation de la mise en service du tramway prévue à fin 2012. Ces
études auront probablement un impact significatif et structurant sur la mobilité urbaine de
l’agglomération dès la mise en œuvre de leurs orientations :
   o l’étude de restructuration du réseau de transport collectif, vise l’amélioration de la
     desserte et du niveau de service par un réseau de transport collectif efficace et
     multimodal, en tenant compte de la viabilité économique du système ;
   o l’étude du plan de circulation a pour objectif de doter la métropole d’un plan de
     circulation pour la gestion du trafic et l’amélioration de l’accessibilité ainsi que
     l’organisation et l’aménagement de la voirie et de l’espace public.
L’AODU prévoit également la revue du contrat de gestion déléguée du transport collectif
urbain par autobus, signé en 2004 entre le groupement de la commune urbaine de
Casablanca et des communes des provinces de Nouaceur, Médiouna et Mohammedia et
la société M’dina Bus. Cette revue visera à introduire les mécanismes garantissant
l’équilibre économique et financier tel que prévu dans le contrat. Elle visera également à
mettre à niveau le contrat notamment en rapport avec les évolutions institutionnelles,
techniques et environnementales intervenues, et à améliorer ses mécanismes de suivi.




                                            36
   b- Mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel national de coordination des actions du
      gouvernement
Pour l’organisation des concertations, la coordination de la mise en œuvre, le suivi et
l’évaluation des actions de la Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains, le Ministère
de l’Intérieur a émis une circulaire en date du 14 octobre 2010 instituant une Commission
Nationale des Déplacements Urbains (CNDU) composée des principaux partenaires de
l’Etat intervenant dans le secteur.
De ce fait, la commission intervient pour :
   o examiner les politiques publiques sectorielles des départements ministériels
     concernés par la problématique des déplacements urbains et ce dans un souci de
     cohérence et de convergence de ces politiques ;
   o préparer les mesures à prendre par les instances de l’Etat, en appui aux
     Collectivités Territoriales, pour favoriser la mise à niveau et la modernisation du
     secteur des déplacements urbains et la professionnalisation de ses modes de
     gestion ;
   o coordonner la mise en œuvre des mesures contenues dans le plan d’actions de la
     stratégie pour optimiser leur efficience ;
   o examiner les différents programmes d’actions, soumis par les Collectivités
     Territoriales intéressées et nécessitant l’appui financier de l’Etat ;
   o assurer le suivi des actions et des réalisations et évaluer leur mise en œuvre.
La CNDU est présidée par Monsieur le Wali, Directeur Général des Collectivités Locales
et composée des représentants, à haut niveau, des Départements Ministériels concernés :
   -   Ministère de l’Intérieur :
   -   Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances :
   -   Ministère de l’Equipement et des Transports :
   -   Ministère de l’Habitat, de l’Urbanisme et de la Politique de la Ville :
En raison de la diversité des actions et de la multiplicité des acteurs dans le traitement des
projets initiés par la commission ou ceux qui lui sont soumis par les Collectivités
Territoriales, le président de la CNDU peut inviter tout autre département ministériel ou
organisme à participer aux travaux de la dite commission. Il peut également mettre en
place, chaque fois que nécessaire, un comité technique ad hoc chargé d’étudier et
d’approfondir une action ou un projet relatif au développement du secteur, soumis à
l’examen de la CNDU.
Il est à signaler que le CNDU n’a tenu aucune réunion avant la fin de l’année 2011, alors
qu’Il a été prévu qu’elle tienne au moins deux réunions.
   c- Promouvoir la planification des déplacements urbains
La première phase qui consiste en la réalisation d’un prédiagnostic et du CPS des études
PDU étant achevée, les villes concernées ont entamé la deuxième phase de lancement de


                                              37
l’étude PDU. A cet égard les villes d’Oujda et d’Agadir ont déjà lancé les appels d’offres
y afférents.
En matière de soutien financier, Marrakech a bénéficié de 8 MDH, en 2009. Les villes
d’Oujda, Agadir et Kenitra ont bénéficié chacune de 5 MDH et El Jadida de 4,5 MDH.

                          Situation globale des PDU au Maroc
          Etat d’avancement       Nombre de
                                                             Villes concernées
           des études PDU           PDU

                                                 Tanger (2003), Casablanca (2004), Rabat
               Elaborés                05
                                                 (2008), Tétouan et Marrakech (2009)

                 lancés                02        Oujda et Agadir

               A lancer                          Fès, Settat, El Jadida, Safi,
                                       07
            prochainement                        Kénitra, Nador et Meknès

                 Total              14 Villes


Dans l’absence de textes juridiques contraignants imposant l’élaboration des PDU et la mise
en œuvre de leurs orientations, le Ministère de l’Intérieur a établi des conventions de
partenariat avec les Collectivités Territoriales permettant de mieux les engager et les
accompagner dans le processus de planification.
Quatre conventions de partenariat, avec les villes d’Oujda, Agadir, Kénitra et Settat, ont été
approuvées.
Ces conventions ont pour objet de définir le cadre général de partenariat, entre le
Ministère de l’Intérieur et les Collectivités Territoriales, favorisant la concertation, la
coordination et la création de synergies pour le développement et la promotion du secteur
des déplacements urbains.
Au titre de ces conventions, le Ministère de l’Intérieur accompagne les Collectivités
Territoriales pour élaborer et mettre en œuvre des PDU en parfaite cohésion avec les
documents de l’urbanisme.
Le Ministère de l’Intérieur se chargera des actions suivantes :
   o la participation au financement de l’étude PDU à hauteur de 50% de son coût de
     réalisation ;
   o le renforcement des capacités et la formation des cadres responsables de la
     mobilité urbaine pour la réalisation et la gestion des infrastructures et des
     équipements en rapport avec les déplacements urbains ;
   o l’appui et l’accompagnement pour élaborer et mettre en œuvre une politique
     multimodale des déplacements urbains ;



                                            38
   o l’appui pour la gestion de la voirie, de la circulation et du stationnement ainsi que
     pour l’amélioration de la sécurité routière
En contre partie, les Collectivités Territoriales sont appelées à mettre en œuvre des
actions dans les domaines suivants :
- Planification des Déplacements urbains
   o la réalisation d’un diagnostic avec une analyse chiffrée de la demande de toutes
     les catégories de population, y compris celle des personnes à mobilité réduite
     (PMR) ainsi que l’analyse des impacts social et environnemental ;
   o l’élaboration du PDU qui permettra l’identification des dysfonctionnements en
     terme de mobilité urbaine et des problèmes de la circulation et du stationnement
     en tenant compte du phénomène de l’étalement urbain et du contexte de la ville et
     de son évolution en matière d’urbanisme, d’infrastructures et de transport ;
   o l’organisation des transports de personnes et de marchandises et la maîtrise de la
     circulation automobile et du stationnement ;
   o le développement des transports publics urbains et la coordination de tous les
     modes de déplacements ;
   o le développement des aménagements garantissant la sécurité des déplacements, la
     fluidité du trafic et le partage équitable de la voirie entre les différents modes de
     déplacements ;
   o l’amélioration du cadre urbain en diminuant les nuisances environnementales
     (pollution, congestion du trafic) et en renforçant la sécurité routière ;
   o les réservations d’emprises à effectuer pour préserver les possibilités de
     développement futur des réseaux, en fonction de l’évolution projetée de
     l'agglomération ;
   o l'évaluation globale des coûts d'investissement et des effets attendus sur la
     mobilité urbaine.
- Elaboration d’un plan d’actions
Il consiste à décliner le PDU, document stratégique, en plan d'actions pré-opérationnel ou
« Programme d’Investissement Prioritaire (PIP) », considérant essentiellement le court-
moyen terme (3 à 5 ans). Le plan d’actions devra permettre :
   o la définition d’un programme d’actions détaillées, chiffrées et financièrement
     réalistes concernant les différents réseaux de la mobilité (transport public,
     circulation, stationnement, trame piétonnière, aménagement de la voirie et de
     l’espace public…)
   o l’évaluation des résultats des actions en matière d’efficacité énergétique et
     d’impacts social et environnemental ;
   o l'optimisation de l'utilisation des infrastructures existantes, la prise en compte des
     capacités de financement et de la mobilisation des fonds nécessaires.
Développement d’un système d’information sur les déplacements



                                           39
   o le développement de bases de données sur les déplacements urbains pour le suivi
     et l’évaluation continus des déplacements urbains.
Pour assurer une bonne gouvernance du projet PDU, il est créé une structure de gestion
des déplacements urbains et de la circulation et des comités de pilotage et technique.
   o la structure de gestion des déplacements urbains et de la circulation chargée de la
     conduite et de la mise en œuvre des PDU ;
   o le Comité de pilotage présidé par le Wali de la Région et composé des différents
     responsables de la politique des déplacements urbains ;
   o le Comité technique relevant des Collectivités Territoriales, de l’administration
     déconcentrée et territoriale.
   o un comité de suivi pour le suivi des réalisations du PDU, a pour le suivi des
     réalisations de la convention.
   d- renforcement des capacités
Le renforcement des capacités des Collectivités Territoriales en matière des
déplacements urbains revêt un caractère crucial. C’est pourquoi, le Ministère de
l'Intérieur a crée une Division des Déplacements Urbains et des Transports (DDUT) à
travers laquelle il apporte tout son appui aux Collectivités Territoriales.
En effet, la DDUT a élaboré un plan d’actions qui prévoit :
   o la mise en place d’une base de données et d’informations pour le suivi du secteur ;
   o la normalisation de la démarche de planification des déplacements urbains et de
     gestion de la circulation et du stationnement grâce à des guides méthodologiques ;
   o la préparation de programmes de formation au profit des cadres et responsables
     locaux.
Dans ce cadre, il est envisagé de lancer deux marchés pour l’élaboration des deux
guides comme outils d’appui méthodologique, technique et d’aide à la prise de décision.
D’autre part, un ambitieux programme de formation a été élaboré au profit des
Communes Urbaines et de l’Administration Territoriale et Centrale pour le
développement d’une expertise dans :
   o la préparation et le suivi des stratégies de développement des infrastructures et
     des services de déplacements urbains ;
   o l’organisation des transports publics et le partenariat public-privé ;
   o la gestion de la circulation et du stationnement.
Suite au premier programme de formation organisé en 2008 et en vue de pérenniser
cette action, une convention cadre dans le domaine de la formation et du renforcement
des capacités, entre la DGCL et l’EHTP, a été signée en 2009.
L’objet de cette convention est :
   o la formation et le perfectionnement des compétences, notamment dans les
     domaines techniques et d’ingénierie ;


                                           40
   o l’échange d’expériences en matière de formation ;
   o l’échange de documentation et d’information.
Dans le cadre de cette convention, un deuxième programme de formation a été lancé en
2010 en partenariat avec la DFCAT /SEGMA.
L’effectif des participants à ce cycle de formation est de 32 cadres supérieurs
responsables des déplacements urbains des villes engagées dans la réalisation des PDU
Locales : Casablanca, Rabat, El Jadida, Fès, Meknès, Kénitra, Marrakech, Agadir, Settat,
Oujda, Nador. L’effectif est répartir comme suit :

                                                Autorité Organisatrice
 Wilayas, Préfectures       Communes                                     Administration
                                                 des Déplacements
    et Provinces.            Urbaines                                      centrale
                                                       Urbains
          12                    14                        02                   04

   2- Amélioration de l'efficacité de l'offre des services des déplacements urbains
      et des infrastructures
   a- Restructuration des services autobus dans l’agglomération de Casablanca
Vu la demande croissante en transport urbain à Casablanca et les difficultés financière du
délégataire de service public M’dina Bus, des mesures ont été prises pour la
restructuration de M’dina Bus qui consistent en la conclusion de trois conventions :
   o Convention Commune Urbaine de Casablanca– Mdina Bus ;
   o convention d’investissement CDG, Transinvest et la RATP-Développement ;
   o convention d’investissement Etat – Mdina Bus.
Convention Commune Urbaine de Casablanca– Mdina Bus
Une convention a été conclue entre la Commune Urbaine de Casablanca et l’opérateur
M’dina Bus pour l’octroi d’une subvention de 200 million de Dirhams, réservée à l’achat
de bus neufs et la réalisation d’un plan de réduction du personnel.

Convention d’investissement CDG, Transinvest et RATP-Développement
La CDG, Transinvest et la RATP-Développement ont signé, le 9 novembre 2009, une
convention d’investissement et un pacte d’actionnaire en vue de déterminer les modalités
de prise d’une participation par la CDG dans le capital de M’dina Bus par voie
d’augmentation de capital.
Ainsi, le capital de M’dina sera augmenté à 410 avec un apport de la CDG de 140 MDH,
sur un montant global de l’ordre de 170 Mdh, réparti comme suit :
      25% des actions seront libérées immédiatement, soit un apport de 42,5 MDH ;
      Le reliquat devant être libéré en une ou plusieurs augmentations sur demande du
       CA de M’dina bus au plus tard dans les trois années suivantes.
Après cette opération, la CDG détient 34% des actions de M’dina Bus.




                                           41
Convention d’investissement Etat – Mdina Bus
Suite à l’entrée de la CDG dans le capital de M’dina Bus, cette dernière a déposé auprès
de l’Agence Marocaine de Développement des Investissements un projet de convention
d’investissement qui la lie avec l’Etat sur la période 2010-2012.
Cette convention tient compte aussi bien de la demande en transport, estimé à 800 000
personnes/jour, que de la fin des contrats des concessionnaires, de l’importance des
investissements à réaliser et de la réforme des bus usagés acquis en urgence.
Le programme d’investissement, objet de la convention, est estimé à 736 MDH dont 561
MDH sont destinés à l’acquisition de 510 bus neufs montés localement et la création de
1900 emplois directs stables
La société est autorisée, au titre de cette convention, à importer 300 bus d’occasion
maximum, répondant à la norme EURO 3 ou équivalent, pour garantir l’offre en transport
et faire face à la période de transition vers l’exclusivité, suite au retrait des autres
concessionnaires. La totalité de ces bus seront réexportés ou réformés au plus tard 36
mois à compter de leur date de mise en circulation et remplacés par des bus neufs.
La société bénéficiera d’une exonération de droit d’importation, appliquée aux
équipements nécessaires à la réalisation du programme d’investissement. En contrepartie,
la société s’engage à :
      La mise en place d’un parc moderne d’autobus de dernière génération ;
      L’accompagnement des réaménagements de la voirie en vue de fluidifier le trafic ;
      La mise en place d’une billettique ;
      La formation des ressources humaines ;
      L’amélioration des équipements du réseau pour une meilleure lisibilité de ce
       dernier.
IL y a lieu de rappeler qu’une première convention d’investissement entre le groupement
et l’Etat a été signée en aout 2004. Elle a permis, au 31 aout 2009, la constitution d’un
parc de 540 bus circulants, dont 200 montés au Maroc, et l’emploi de plus de 4000
personnes avec un investissement de 400 MDH.
L’indicateur de résultat, retenu pour cette mesure qui vise à atteindre une offre de 2,6
milliards de sièges-km en 2011, a été partiellement atteint, puisque l’offre enregistrée, en
2011, a été de 2, 4 milliards de siège-km, contre 1,9 milliards de sièges-km en 2009.
   b- -Restructuration des services autobus dans l’agglomération de Rabat-Salé-
      Témara
L’agglomération de Rabat-Salé-Témara a confié la gestion du service de transport par
autobus, assuré jusqu’à 2009 par 7 concessionnaires, au délégataire Staréo, dont le capital
a été détenu à plus de 75% par le groupe Veolia. L’objectif a été de déléguer ce service à
un opérateur qui témoigne de grandes capacités en matière d’investissement et de gestion
du service
Cependant, après l’entré en vigueur du contrat de gestion délégué, le 29 octobre 2009, le
service a connu des perturbations et des dysfonctionnements dus à des facteurs




                                            42
conjoncturels liés aux conditions de démarrage de l’exploitation et d’autres structurels
impactant l’économie globale du contrat.
A cause des pertes accumulées et à l’incapacité du délégataire de poursuivre la gestion du
service, un nouveau schéma d’exploitation du service plus approprié a été mis en place.
Le schéma a nécessité la création d’un groupement d’agglomérations, en juin 2011, et la
reprise, par ce groupement, des actions détenues par Veolia au sein du capital de Staréo.
Le nombre de bus a évolué de 535 en 2009, à 576 en 2010 pour attendre 558 en 2012. Le
nombre de bus de moins de cinq ans d’âge s’est renforcé en passant respectivement de
232, à 388 et 429 autobus.
Ceci a permis d’atteindre une offre de 2,26 milliards de sièges-km en 20011, dépassant
l’indicateur de suivi, adoptés en 2010 à l’occasion de la préparation du PPD, qui fixe un
objectif de 2 milliards de sièges-km.
   c- Amélioration du cadre réglementaire et institutionnel pour les partenariats
      public-privé
Le Ministre de l'Intérieur a signé un arrêté, en date du 25 août 2010, définissant le
processus de sélection des délégataires des services publics, en application des
dispositions de la loi 54.05 relative à la gestion déléguée des services publics. Ce texte
n’est pas encore publié au bulletin officiel.
   d- Le financement des services des déplacements urbains et des infrastructures.
Vu l’importance du volume des investissements que nécessite le secteur et les ressources
limitées des Collectivités Territoriales, l’Etat est souvent sollicité pour apporter son appui
à l’action locale en vue de financer des projets d’infrastructure et moderniser l’offre en
transport public en termes de capacité et de qualité.
Cependant, la mobilisation de tout financement est tributaire de l’implication des
Collectivités Territoriales et de leur engagement à inscrire leurs actions selon une
approche stratégique, globale et intégrée.
C’est pourquoi le Ministre de l’Intérieur a établis des critères d’éligibilité définissant les
conditions que doivent remplir les projets d’infrastructures de transport des Collectivités
Territoriales proposés à un soutien financier de l’Etat. Ces critères, diffusés dans une
lettre circulaire du 4 novembre 2010, invite les Collectivités Territoriales qui souhaite un
appui financier de l’Etat de :
   o disposer d’un plan de déplacements urbains (PDU), document stratégique
     permettant à la ville de développer une politique multimodale cohérente et
     intégrant toutes les composantes de la mobilité : transport public, gestion du trafic,
     stationnement, trame piétonnière, aménagement de la voirie… ;
   o élaborer un plan d’actions, ou Programme d’Investissement Prioritaire (PIP) pour
     la mise en œuvre du PDU, avec une programmation à court et moyen termes (3 à
     5 ans) et ce, pour une meilleure visibilité de l’emploi des ressources ;
   o arrêter une estimation financière du PIP en proposant les montages financiers et
     les partenariats possibles ainsi que les modalités institutionnelles et opératoires
     pour la réalisation et l’exploitation ;


                                             43
   o engager le processus de professionnalisation de la gestion des transports publics
     urbains et promouvoir les partenariats public-privé ;
   o accorder la priorité aux projets impactant le développement social pour garantir
     l’accessibilité des citoyens aux services et à l’emploi ;
   o favoriser les projets à impact positif sur l’environnement en vue de réduire la
     consommation de l’énergie et d’améliorer la qualité de l’air.
Seule la ville de Marrakech a soumis au Ministère de l’Intérieur, pour soutien financier,
un projet multimodal de déplacement (lignes BHNS, aménagement voirie et carrefours,
régulation de la circulation…). Après étude du projet, par les services du Ministère de
l’Intérieur, des remarques ont été émises, insistant sur la nécessité de la finalisation du
montage financier établi, la programmation détaillée des réalisations et l’élaboration des
études nécessaires à leur exécution.
   3- Amélioration de la soutenabilité sociale et environnementale du secteur des
      déplacements urbains
   a- Amélioration de la qualité de l'air dans les grandes agglomérations
Le Ministère de l’Equipement et des Transports a achevé la restructuration des centres de
visite technique des véhicules en prenant les mesures suivantes :
   o signature d’un contrat avec un troisième opérateur national pour appuyer les
     centres de visite technique existants ;
   o mise en place d’un processus électronique automatisé de préparation des procès
     verbaux de visite technique ;
   o signature d’un contrat pour l’audit des centres de visite technique.
   o une inspection efficace des véhicules et des systèmes de suivi ont été mis en
     place.
Le nombre de visites qui ont reçu le procès verbal automatisé d’inspection technique a été
de l’ordre de : 1. 100 000 visites techniques en 2009. Ce chiffre est passé à 1 660 013 en
2011 soit un écart de 39 987 par rapport à l’objectif fixé dans le cadre du Programme
d’Actions Prioritaires (1 700 000).

   b- Amélioration de l'accessibilité pour les personnes à mobilité réduite
Conscient de l’importance des accessibilités dans la vie des personnes en situation
d’handicap, Les accessibilités constituent une des préoccupations majeures du Ministère
de la Solidarité, de la Femme, de la Famille et du Développement Social (MSFFDS).
L’adoption de la loi n°10.03 relative aux accessibilités, le 21 mai 2003, a constitué un fait
marquant dans le processus de renforcement des droits des personnes en situation de
handicap, vu le rôle vital qu’assume l’accessibilité en matière d’intégration sociale. Des
actions ont été prises que ce soit dans la mise en accessibilité des espaces publics dans
certaines villes (Khémisset, Settat, Martil et Rabat-Hassan) ou dans la formation des
professionnels et en matière de sensibilisation.
Après, la ratification de la Convention Internationale des Personnes Handicapées par le
Maroc en 2009, qui perçoit l’accessibilité en étant un droit fondamental des personnes


                                             44
handicapées, le MSFFDS s’est impliqué fortement dans le processus de mise en place de
la Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains, qui prévoit la réforme du secteur du
transport public et l’amélioration de la mobilité urbaine dans les grandes villes, en
intégrant la thématique « accessibilité » dans ce grand projet et ce, via un plan d’action,
élaboré en partenariat avec les départements ministériels concernés et avec l’appui
technique de la Banque Mondiale, comportant plusieurs actions regroupées en quatre
volets :
   o la création d’un cadre juridique et réglementaire nécessaire pour définir les
     besoins en matière d’accessibilité ;
   o le renforcement des capacités institutionnelles des parties prenantes sur les
     questions d’accessibilité, et l’établissement de mécanismes de coordination ;
   o le renforcement des capacités techniques par l’élaboration de guides, la formation
     et la normalisation des équipements de transport ;
   o le développement des actions de sensibilisation et de communication.
Pour l’appui à la réalisation de ce plan d’actions, un don a été octroyé par le
gouvernement japonais dont l’accord sera signé incessamment.
En application de ce plan, le MSFFDS a préparé un programme de travail, étalé sur trois
ans, et qui comporte trois volets : formation des intervenants dans le domaine de l’habitat
et de l’urbanisme, la sensibilisation de la société civile et du grand public et le
réaménagement de quelques espaces publics phares dans une ville pilote.
A cet égard, le MSFFDS a constitué une commission composé des acteurs impliqués dans
le PDD pour le suivi et l’exécution de ce plan d’action.
Sur le plan opérationnel, le MSFFDS est entrain de finaliser une étude pilote sur le niveau
d’accessibilité de la ville de Marrakech pour les personnes à mobilité réduite, ce projet
sera validé vers fin mars 2012. L’étude permettra l’identification des principaux
problèmes et de proposer des solutions.
En matière de sensibilisation, le Ministère a élaboré un guide unifié des normes
d’accessibilité architecturales et urbanistiques. Ce guide a été diffusé le 06 avril 2011 aux
ONGs et secteurs concernés. Il sera transmis par la suite aux agences urbaines et aux
Collectivités Territoriales afin de veiller à l’application des accessibilités sur le terrain.
Concernant le volet formation, le MSFFDS a signé en avril 2010 une convention de
partenariat avec l’Ordre National des Architectes, dont l’objet consiste à l’organisation de
sessions de formation en faveur des professionnels de l’urbanisme et à
l’accompagnement technique des projets réalisés par le Ministère.
En matière d’amélioration des accessibilités des espaces publics, une convention a été
signée avec la Wilaya de la Région de Marrakech Tensift Al Haouz et le Conseil de la
ville de Marrakech, et vise l’intégration des accessibilités dans les principaux lieux et
espaces ouverts au public.
En vue de disposer d’un cadre juridique cohérent qui répond aux attentes des personnes
en situation de handicap et dans le cadre de l’harmonisation de la législation marocaine
avec la Convention Internationale des Droits des Personnes Handicapées, le MDSFS a


                                             45
élaboré un projet de décret portant application de la loi 10-03, qui comprend les
dispositions générales et les caractéristiques techniques relatives aux accessibilités
urbanistiques, architecturales, de transport et de la communication. Ce décret a été
promulgué le 13 octobre 2011.

   III-    EVALUATION DE LA DEMARCHE DU PROGRAMME
           D’ACTIONS PRIORITAIRES
   1- Facteurs clés ayant contribués à la réussite du programme
Le programme de réforme engagé avec l’appui de la Banque Mondiale a été établi dans
une démarche participative et à l’issue d’une longue concertation avec les partenaires de
ce projet et ce, dès l’élaboration du diagnostic en 2006 jusqu’à la validation de l’étude sur
les déplacements urbains et de la stratégie sectorielle ainsi que la préparation du
programme du PPD.
Les ateliers organisés en 2006 ont suscité un débat riche et fructueux et ont abouti à un
diagnostic partagé entre toutes les parties prenantes, qu’elles soient, Collectivités
Territoriales, Départements Ministérielles ou Administration Locale. Les journées
thématiques, couronnées par l’organisation du Séminaire Régional sur les Déplacements
Urbains en Méditerranée à Skhirat en 2008 ont permis d’unifier la vision et d’arrêter les
orientations et les recommandations de la Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains.
Cette concertation s’est poursuivie dans le cadre du travail du comité interministériel
chargé de la préparation du programme du PPD, facilitant ainsi la coordination et
l’implication de l’ensemble des intervenants, chacun en ce qui le concerne, pour :
   o l’identification des mesures de réforme prioritaires à court terme ;
   o la finalisation du Programme d’Actions prioritaire ;
   o l’élaboration d’un calendrier préliminaire de préparation du PPD ;
   o la mise en œuvre des réformes selon les objectifs arrêtés.
   2- Appréciation des résultats
Le bilan des réalisations au titre du premier PPD est globalement positif. Toutes les
mesures, contenues dans la matrice du Programme d’Actions Prioritaires du PPD ont été
réalisées et achevées à l’exception de la mesure qui consiste en la tenue des réunions du
CNDU. Cette action sera satisfaite au cours de l’année 2012.
Par ailleurs, les réformes engagées pour l’amélioration des transports publics et des
conditions de la mobilité urbaine dans les villes s’inscrivent dans la durée et leur impact
ne peut être palpable qu’à moyen et à long terme. Les efforts doivent se poursuivre pour
améliorer, surtout la gouvernance du secteur en renforçant les capacités des Collectivités
Territoriales et en mettant en place des mécanismes de financement pérennes.
A ce titre, l’appui financier aux Collectivités Territoriales doit servir de levier pour
asseoir les bases d’une bonne gouvernance qui consiste à positionner tout projet dans une
vision globale et intégrée, exigeant l’atteinte d’objectifs et de résultats sur le plan de
planification et de gestion de la mobilité urbaine, d’organisation des réseaux de transport,



                                             46
d’amélioration du niveau de service, avec la prise en considération des aspects sociaux et
de leurs impacts.
   3- Evaluation de la performance de la Banque Mondiale et de l’emprunteur
l’apport de la Banque Mondiale a été considérable au niveau de l’appui technique à
travers les études et les rapports engagés sur le secteur des déplacements urbains et qui
ont abouti à l’élaboration du document de stratégie ; en plus des études
d’accompagnement élaborées lors de l’engagement du processus de préparation du PPD,
à savoir les études d’évaluation des impacts sur l’environnement et d’analyse d’impact
sur la pauvreté et le social.
L’élaboration du programme de réforme a bénéficié également de l’accompagnement et
du soutien de la Banque Mondiale. Plusieurs missions de cette institution ont été
mobilisées pour contribuer, dans un cadre d’échange et de dialogue constructif, à la
préparation des mesures qui ont été incluses dans le Programme d’Actions Prioritaires et
du plan d’actions pour les PMR.
Le Ministère de l’Intérieur a joué un rôle déterminant dans l’aboutissement de ce projet.
Dès le départ, il a participé à l’élaboration des études, à l’organisation et au pilotage des
négociations et des concertations avec les parties prenantes sur les principales
composantes de la Stratégie Nationales des Déplacements Urbains et du Programme
d’Actions Prioritaire relatif au PPD.
Les premières réformes pour le renforcement du cadre institutionnel et des capacités
locales et pour l’appui à la planification ainsi que les chantiers ouverts pour le
développement et la modernisation de l’offre du transport public ont été possibles grâce à
la mobilisation, par le Ministère de l’Intérieur, des moyens et des ressources et à
l’implication de ses partenaires.
   4- Les perspectives d’avenir
Les discussions entre le Gouvernement Marocain et la Banque Mondiale, lors de la
mission du 19 au 31 janvier 2012, ont porté sur les perspectives de l’accompagnement
des réformes du secteur des déplacements urbains, dans le cadre du PPD, à travers une
2ème tranche. Ceci nécessite l’identification des actions potentielles à inscrire dans une
nouvelle matrice de réformes substantielles pour cette 2 ème tranche de PPD et ce, sur la
base de la Stratégie Nationale des Déplacements Urbains.
L’appui de la Banque Mondiale peut également être envisagé dans le cadre de projets
d’investissement dans l’infrastructure des transports urbains en sites propres de type
BHNS, prévus notamment à Casablanca, à Marrakech et à Agadir, vu leur coût
d’investissement peu élevé et leur impact sur la qualité et l’efficacité des transports
publics.




                                             47
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                      48
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


      Program Document
      Aide-Memoires
      ISRs




                                        49
                                                              10°W                                                                                                              5°W                                                                                                        0°



                                                                                                                                                                                                  M ed it e rra ne a n                                            Se a
                                                                                                                                                    Tanger
                                                                                                                                                                           Tétouan
                                                                                                                                                         TANGER-                                     Al Hoceima
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Algiers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nador                                                                  35°N
                                                                                                                                                          ÉTOUAN
                                                                                                                                                         TÉTOUAN
                                                                                                                                           Larache                           Chechaouene                                                         ya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             u
                                              MOROCCO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lo
           35°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Oujda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ou
                                                                                                                                                                       Ouezzane




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                      GHARB-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ou
                                                                                                                                    CHRARDA-                                        Taounate
                                                                                                                                                                                               TAZA-AL HOCEIMA-
                                                                                                                                    ÉNI
                                                                                                                                   BÉNI HSSEN                                                                                                Taourirt
                                                                                                                                                                 Oued                             TAOUNATE
                                                                                                                                                                           Sebour
                                                                                                                                   nitra
                                                                                                                                 Kénitra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ts.
                                                                                                                                                          Sidi                                              Taza
                                                                                                                                  Sale                   Kacem
                                                                                                                                                                              Fès
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ain Bini




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s M
                                                                                                                         RABAT         RABAT-                                                                                                         Mathar
                                                                                                                                                        Mekn
                                                                                                                                                        Meknès
                                                                                 GRAND CASABLANCA                                       SALÉ-
                                                                                                                                        SALÉ- Khemisset




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tla
                                                                                                Casablanca                           ZEMMOUR-
                                                                                                                                                           Ifrane
                                                                                                                            Ben Slimane ZAËR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                     Azrou
                                                                                                                                                                                                ÈS-BOULEMANE
                                                                                                                                                                                               FÈS-BOULEMANE
                                                                                                                                                                                            Boulemane
                                                                                  El Jadida                                                                                                                 l                           s




                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                        Berrechid
                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                   id
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i n ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                            Settat               Khouribga                                                                                                                                              El Bayadh
                                                                                                                                               Oued Zem                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t a
                                                                                                               CHAOUIA-                                                Khenifra
                                                                                   DOUKKALA-                                                                                                                                                               Bouârfa
                                                                                                              OUARDIGHA
                               AT L ANT I C
                                                                                     ABDA                                                                                       MEKNÈS-
                                                                                                                                                                                MEKNÈS-                     n                                                             Figuig
                                                                                                                  ue                                                            TAFILALET          u
                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                    d Er                               ni
                                                                                                                                                     Béni Mellal
                                                                         Safi                                            Rb
                                                                                                                            ia                                                                o
                                  O CE A N                                                                     El Kelaa
                                                                                                            des Srarhna
                                                                                                                                         TADLA-AZILAL                                   M
                                                                                     Oued Tennsift
                                                                                                                                           Azilal                      s                                Errachidia

                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                   Marrakech
                                                                                                                                 Demnate
                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0°
                                                         Essaouira                     Chichaoua               Tahannaout    t                                                                                                                          Tindouf

                                                                             MARRAKECH-
                                                                               TENSIFT-
                                                                                                                A
                                                                              EL HAOUZ                          Jebel Toubkal
                                                                                                                (4,165 m)

                                                                                                             SOUSS-MASSA-DRÂA
                                                                                                             SOUSS-MASSA-DRÂA
                                                                                                                              Ouarzazate
                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                D    AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y                                            M OROCCO
                                                                                                                                                                                             UN
                                                                                                                                                          u ed
                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                us                                                            Dr
                                                                                              So
                                                                                         Oued




                                                                                                                                                                                        BO
                                                                                                                                                    Zagora         a
                                                                                                    Mts.                                                         â
                                                               Agadir                                                                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                   Taroudannt
                                                                                               as
                                                                                           Atl                                                                                      T                                             30°N                               REGION CAPITALS


                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                       nti                                                                                      A
           30°N
                                                                                                                                                                XIM                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                     A          Tata                                                 A   PP R O
                                                                        Tiznit                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                              GUELMIM-ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
                                                       Ifni                                    SEMARA
           This map was produced by
           the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RAILROADS
           World Bank. The boundaries,
           colors, denominations and                                                                                                                 0           50             100          150            200 Kilometers                                           REGION BOUNDARIES
           any other information shown




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33450R2
           on this map do not imply, on                       Guelmim
           the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                0                     50                  100                      150 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MAY 2009




                                                                     Draâ
           legal status of any territory,
           or any endorsement or
                                             Tan-Tan     Oued                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Approximate)
           acceptance of such                                                                    To
           boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                            5°W
                                                                                              Tindouf
