                   MOROCCO

 Urban Transport Sector
Development Policy Loan




               Report No. 106390
                      JUNE 14, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                               Report No.: 106390




           PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               MOROCCO

     URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                        (IBRD-80200)


                               June 14, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                      ii


   Currency Equivalents (on June 13, 2016)

   Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirhams (DH)

   DH 1 = US$0.10
   US$1 = DH 9.68


   Abbreviations
   AFD French Development Agency/Agence Française de Développement
   AODU Organizing Authority for Urban Transport in Greater Casablanca/
                Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains du Grand Casablanca
   BRT bus rapid transit
   CNDU National Commission for Urban Transport/Conseil National des Déplacements Urbains
   DDUT Division for Urban Mobility and Transport (within DGCL of the Ministry of Interior)/
                Division des Déplacements Urbains et des Transports
   DGCL General Directorate of Local Governments (within the Ministry of Interior)/
                Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales
   DPL Development Policy Loan
   FART Urban Transport Fund/Fonds d’Accompagnement des Réformes du
                Transport Routier Urbain et Interurbain
   GIZ  German Development Agency/Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit
   GOM Government of Morocco
   ICR  Implementation Completion Report
   IPF  Investment Project Financing
   M&E monitoring and evaluation
   MEF Ministry of Economy and Finance/Ministère de l’Économie et des Finances
   MOI Ministry of Interior/ Ministère de l’Interieur
   OP   Operational Policy
   PDU urban mobility master plan/Plan de Déplacements Urbains
   PLM persons with limited mobility
   SDL Local Joint Ownership Company/Société de Développement Local
   SP   Municipally owned Enterprise/Société de Patrimoine
   UT   urban transport

   Fiscal Year

   Government:               January 1—December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                              :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector and Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                                  :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                          :   Ms. Fang Xu
                                                                   iii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iv
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
Preface................................................................................................................................ vi
Summary ........................................................................................................................... vii
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 5
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 9
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 11
   Objective 1: Improve the Governance of the Urban Transport Sector ......................... 13
   Objective 2: Increase the Efficiency and Supply of Transport Services and
   Infrastructure ................................................................................................................. 19
   Objective 3: Improve Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Sector ............. 24
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 26
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 27
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 28
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 30
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 31
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 31
7. References ..................................................................................................................... 34
Appendix A: Basic Data Sheet ......................................................................................... 35
Appendix B: Operational Policy Matrix ........................................................................... 36
Appendix C: List of Persons Met...................................................................................... 40
Appendix D: Borrower Comments ................................................................................... 41


Boxes
Box 1. Chile Urban Transport DPL: Issues of Value Added and Bank Attribution........... 7
Box 2. The Urban Transport Fund and Investment Needs ............................................... 17
Box 3. Cost Comparison: Tramway and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Investments ............. 23




This report was prepared by Fang Xu and Fernando Manibog, who assessed the project in February 2016.
The report was peer reviewed by Gerhard Menckhoff and panel reviewed by Aghassi Mkrtchyan. Richard
Kraus provided administrative support.
                                                                  iv


Tables
Table 1. Growth in the Vehicle Fleet and Issuance of Drivers’ Licenses........................... 1
Table 2. Regions with Largest Shares of the Car Fleet in Circulation (thousands; in rank
order for 2014) .................................................................................................................... 2
Table 3. Performance Ratings for the Three Objectives based on the Achievement of
Expected Outcomes from the 10 Prior Actions (PA)........................................................ 11
Table 4. Transport Demand and Modes in Casablanca .................................................... 13
Table 5. Percentage Shares of the Public Bus Fleet in Greater Casablanca ..................... 21
Table 6. Number of Vehicle Inspections and Inspection Centers ..................................... 24
Table 7. Japan PHRD Grant: Project to Improve Accessibility of People with Limited
Mobility............................................................................................................................. 26


Principal Ratings
                                      ICRa               ICR Reviewb                 PPAR
 Outcome                      Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory
 Risk to                                Moderate                           Moderate                            Moderate
 development
 outcome
 Bank performance                     Satisfactory                Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory
 Borrower                     Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory Moderately satisfactory
 performance
a.The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. b. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                    Division Chief/
 Project                 Task Manager/Leader                        Sector Director                      Country Director
 Appraisal              Jean-Charles Crochet                         Laszlo Lovei                          Simon Gray
 Completion             Jean-Charles Crochet                   Patricia Veevers-Carter                      Simon Gray
                                                           v


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20 to 25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vi


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) of the World Bank Group on the Urban Transport Sector
Development Policy Loan (DPL) for Morocco (Loan No. IBRD-80200). This loan for
Euro 100 million (US$136.7 million equivalent) was originally expected to be the first of
two loans in a DPL series. It was appraised on December 13, 2010; approved by the
World Bank’s Board on March 15, 2011; declared effective on August 18, 2011; and
closed on December 31, 2011. The loan was fully disbursed in a single tranche upon
effectiveness, thus giving it a five-month implementation period. The second DPL did not
proceed. Instead, a Program-for-Results operation for an Urban Transport Program in the
amount of US$200 million was approved in December 2015.

This report presents findings based on a review of the project’s Implementation
Completion and Results Report dated June 27, 2012, program and legal documents, prior
Bank sector studies and reviews, records on file, and other relevant materials. An IEG
mission visited Morocco in February 2016 and held discussions with the Bank’s Country
Director, sector staff at the country office, government officials, urban transport
operators, and other development agencies (see appendix C). IEG met with past or
present government officials at senior levels in various key ministries, including the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Interior, and Ministry of General Affairs
and Governance. Prior to the mission, IEG met with the Task Team Leaders of the DPL
and the recently approved Program-for-Results project.

This DPL was selected for an in-depth PPAR for three main reasons. First, it is one of
only two urban transport DPLs financed by the Bank (the other one is in Chile). Thus, the
lessons that can be learned from its achievements and continuing challenges merit
additional scrutiny. Second, the PPAR would serve as input to IEG’s major evaluation
study on urban transport, which relies on a geographically and operationally diverse set
of project-level performance assessments and country case studies. Third, four years have
passed since the DPL’s closing date, hence its results need to be updated with recent
available evidence to revalidate the effectiveness of the actions taken and assess the long-
term sustainability of related outcomes.

The contributions of all stakeholders, including World Bank staff in Washington, DC and
Rabat are gratefully acknowledged.

Following standard IEG procedures, the draft PPAR was shared with relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comment.
                                            vii


Summary
Rapid urbanization has imposed considerable pressure on Morocco’s urban transport
systems. Public urban transport remains inadequate, deficient in quality, and functionally
disorganized, particularly in terms of bus-tramway integration in Rabat and Casablanca.
Intermodal transport is inefficient, as operators see themselves in competitive rather than
complementary roles. Traffic accidents and inadequate access to public transport have
disproportionately affected the poor, women and persons with limited mobility.

Morocco’s urban mobility issues are partly the result of significant underinvestment in
the sector. Moreover, the lack of financial sustainability has hindered the participation of
new private operators, while current ones have been unable to renew their fleet or expand
services adequately to meet rapidly growing demand. Despite significant improvements,
the capacity to manage the urban transport sector still requires further strengthening,
particularly at the level of municipal authorities and their agglomerations.

The Morocco—Urban Transport Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL) was approved
in March 25, 2011 with three specific objectives: (i) to improve the governance of the
urban transport sector, (ii) to increase the efficiency and supply of services and
infrastructure, and (iii) to improve environmental and social sustainability of the sector.
Under these three policy areas, the government agreed to implement 10 Prior Actions
whose outcomes contribute to the long-term goal of improving the efficiency of urban
transport in large cities, ultimately promoting economic growth, social development, and
the quality of life in a sustainable way for Morocco’s urban citizens.

Ratings
The relevance of the DPL’s objectives was substantial. The selection of its objectives
was based on a thorough analysis of the macroeconomic context and necessary sector
reforms, which helped to define accurately the highest priority interventions for the DPL.
The three policy reform areas addressed by the DPL were also well aligned with the
country strategy and the main sector priorities of the government, as enunciated in its
Letter of Development Policy.

The relevance of the DPL’s design was modest. The DPL benefitted significantly from
several years of prior analytical and advisory work by the Bank. The DPL’s Prior Actions
built directly upon the government’s own priorities were causally well-linked to the
targeted outcomes. The DPL’s Prior Actions were also critical to accelerate policy and
institutional strengthening measures, raise the profile of key issues, coalesce
stakeholders, set timelines, and monitor results. However, the additionality of the Prior
Actions, and the attribution of outcomes to the Bank’s intervention, are not fully clear.
The government had already identified and initiated many of the Prior Actions before the
DPL’s approval and implementation, which leads to questions related to the
counterfactual. In the absence of the DPL, would the reforms have proceeded anyway? If
so, how significant is the value added of the DPL, apart from financing of the budget?
Finally, the choice of using solely the DPL instrument, without being accompanied by
much-needed investment project financing or technical assistance, detracted from the full
achievement of a number of outcomes.
                                            viii


The achievement of the project’s first and third objectives—to improve the governance of
the urban transport sector, and to improve environmental and social sector
sustainability—was substantial. However, the achievement of its second objective—to
increase the efficiency and supply of urban transport services and infrastructure—was
only modest, mainly due to the slow progress in addressing the operational inefficiencies
and lack of financial sustainability of public transport in the urban agglomerations of
Greater Casablanca and Rabat-Salé-Témara. Taking into account the high relevance of its
objectives and the modest relevance of its design, the DPL’s overall outcome is
moderately satisfactory.

Risks to development outcome are moderate. Although the Ministry of Interior and its
Division for Urban Mobility and Transport (DDUT) have been playing a sector
coordinating role and—through funding and investment prioritization mechanisms—are
supporting local entities with increasing effectiveness, financial sustainability remains an
important issue.

Bank performance was moderately satisfactory. While there were weaknesses in project
design, the Bank has played a high-value role in helping to formulate a strategy and
improve the policy framework for Morocco’s urban transport sector. Borrower
performance was moderately satisfactory. The government was highly committed to the
DPL’s objectives throughout project preparation and implementation. As the
implementing agency, the Ministry of Interior’s performance was strong; however,
interministerial coordination was only partially achieved.

Lessons
The main lessons are as follows:

For DPLs to achieve results, the broad and early participation of implementing
agencies and local governments, and a strong reform momentum by the
government, need to be in place at entry. Credible government actions to accelerate
policy reforms are necessary prior to Board approval. Broad participation by
implementing agencies and local governments is needed, as early as the conceptualization
of the sector and technical studies that would underpin DPL design. The Bank’s dialogue
with government “champions” needs to be broadened early to achieve buy-in and
engagement beyond the central counterparts, because in urban transport the executive
responsibilities lie with city governments. The degree of cooperation among the
implementing agencies and the local authorities was due largely to the credible process of
stakeholder consultation during the DPL’s preparation and implementation.

Flexible and adaptive responses by the government are required to continue
pursuing the DPL’s objectives when specific actions do not achieve expected results.
For example, the National Commission for Urban Transport (CNDU) and the Organizing
Authority for Urban Transport in Greater Casablanca (AODU) lacked the convening
power and legitimizing authority expected when the objectives were created. In response,
the government strengthened and empowered the Division for Urban Mobility and
Transport (DDUT) under the Ministry of Interior—originally the technical Secretariat of
CNDU—to assume many of the responsibilities of the CNDU itself, which ceased to
                                             ix


function. Similarly, when AODU proved unable to assume its assigned roles despite large
budgetary outlays, the Greater Casablanca authorities abolished it in March 2015 and
transferred its planning, investment, and management roles to Casa Transports.

The Bank’s convening authority and intellectual leadership need to support the
government’s work on consensus building and interagency coordination—especially
at the initial stages of DPLs. During the critical process of selecting and justifying key
reform actions, the Bank needs to ensure that the government is building consensus
among national and local stakeholders that may be at different stages of readiness (in
institutional capacity) and willingness to implement reforms (given the local political
economy and its incentive systems). The Bank’s “convening power” is highest when the
Bank provides intellectual leadership through evidence-based sector analysis, a strategic
dialogue, and a defensible menu of priority actions. Some respondents during the IEG
mission expressed concerns that the Bank’s high-value analytical and advisory assistance
may be eroding in favor of operationally oriented project preparation work.

The Bank has an important role to play in ensuring that all investment options are
analyzed, with a view to selecting the least-cost options. As part of its due diligence,
the Bank needs to ensure, especially in broad-ranging sector DPLs, that all investment
options are appropriately assessed within a sector planning framework, with a view to
identifying and selecting the least-cost options. The government has put in place
eligibility criteria to incentivize municipal investments and allocate government financial
support to those with highest returns. Such prioritization and efficient resource allocation
criteria should be applied when comparing tramway expansion with bus rapid transit and
other options, in light of overall urban transport needs. For example, it would be
important to analyze whether spending 40 percent of all urban transport investments on
expansion of tram lines would be worthwhile, considering the large number of other road,
traffic, and bus-related investment needs in Morocco’s other cities.

Sector DPLs could be more effective if accompanied by parallel investment lending
and technical assistance, or designed as a programmatic series that would expand
the implementation time frame to several years. The urban transport sector is
inherently complex, straddling land use, environmental, and social issues, as well as
national and local jurisdictions. Reforms can be fully achieved only over the long term,
thus requiring step-by-step approaches and a rigorous prioritization of short-term actions
that could most effectively lay the groundwork for future reforms. In this context, a short-
duration DPL cannot be expected to directly impact decision making at the local level,
which depends on political and other factors that are beyond the influence and
implementation time frame of DPLs. Capacity building at the local levels can be more
readily achieved by investment lending and technical assistance support. Their absence
would explain why the urban transport DPL’s second objective—to increase the
efficiency and supply of urban transport services and infrastructure—was achieved only
to a modest extent.

                                                        Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                        Director, Financial, Private Sector, and
                                                        Sustainable Development Evaluation
                                                        Independent Evaluation Group
                                                                  1


1. Background and Context
Urban Mobility Issues in Morocco

 1.1 Rapid urbanization has imposed considerable pressure on the urban
 transport systems of Morocco’s large agglomerations. The urban population of
 Morocco has grown rapidly, partly due to the rural exodus to urban areas in recent
 decades. City residents now comprise 20 million inhabitants—or 60 percent of the
 country’s population—compared to 5 million or 35 percent of the total population in
 1970. This urban share is expected to rise to 70 percent of the population by 2050.
 Consequently, the demand for urban transport service has increased sharply, driven by
 other factors in addition to continuing rural-to-urban migration: (i) urban spread due to
 the demand for lower-density residential areas outside congested urban centers, (ii) the
 development of business activities outside city centers, (iii) the increasing participation
 of women in the labor market, (iv) the greater mobility of younger households, and (v)
 the rapid increase in the number of private cars as a result of economic growth and rising
 household incomes. These trends have led to at least a doubling of the number of trips
 taken and a lengthening of commuting time. As shown in table 1.1, the number of
 private cars jumped by 57 percent in just 8 years between 2006 and 2014 (from 1.55 to
 2.4 million cars, respectively), representing an average annual growth rate of 5.7
 percent. Motorcycles and utility vehicles grew even faster at an average annual growth
 rate of almost 7 percent; at that rate, their numbers would double by 2024. The demand
 for drivers’ exams and the number of licenses issued have increased correspondingly.

Table 1. Growth in the Vehicle Fleet and Issuance of Drivers’ Licenses
                                          2006         2010           2014      Increase 2006–14a Growth
                                                                                (%)               rateb
 Vehicle fleet in circulation (thousands)
     Motorcycles                      24.1                31.4           41.1                        70.5             6.9
     Private cars                  1,551.2             1,976.2        2,423.6                        57.1             5.7
     Utility vehicles                570.9               783.5          973.2                        70.5             6.9
     Total                         2,146.6             2,436.2        3,427.9                        59.7             6.1
 Driver’s licenses (thousands)
     Scheduled drivers’ exams        450.3               766.8         592.1                         31.5             3.5
     Licenses issued                 202.2               418.4         313.5                         55.1             2.4
Source: Transport Routier en Chiffres posted in the website of the Ministère de l’Équipment, du Transport et de la Logistique. See:
http://www.equipement.gov.ma/Pages/accueil.aspx.
Note: a. Absolute percentage increase between 2006 and 2014; b. Average annual growth rate between 2006 and 2014.

        The new Moroccan constitution of 2011 recognizes the strong demand for
 improved public services and increased decentralization, but faster progress is
 needed to implement the expected reforms. In 2011, a new constitution was adopted
 that emphasized popular demand for better services, especially in urban areas. This
 renewed social contract intended to strengthen the governance framework and thereby
 promote political, institutional, and social reforms through improved local governance
 and increased decentralization. However, implementation of the promised reforms has
 been slow, due to unfavorable external economic conditions and, more importantly, the
 limited institutional capacity to manage the growing demand for increased quantity and
 quality of public services, particularly at the local level. With current trends, the road
                                                                  2


    network could reach saturation in the near future, resulting in wasted time, lost
    productivity, higher vehicle operating costs, and decreased competitiveness due to
    higher transport costs for businesses and industries.

           Public urban transport remains inadequate, deficient in quality, and
    functionally disorganized. Policies that promote the use of private cars (such as easy
    car loans) were adopted to meet rising demand for urban mobility, but the rapid increase
    in car ownership in the last decade has led to more congestion. As shown in table 1.2,
    car ownership is most concentrated in Grand Casablanca and the Rabat-Salé-Zemmour-
    Zaer region, accounting for about half of the total car fleet in 2014. However, while the
    shares of other regions are comparatively smaller, their average annual growth rates are
    about 7 percent per year, which means that the number of cars in these regions would
    double in the next 10 years. Meanwhile, given the lack of planning and regulation by
    local authorities, the use of public urban transport was encouraged only in recent years.
    The speed and reliability of public urban transport in Morocco’s large agglomerations
    are low and unpredictable. Operators report slowing down to as low as 5 kilometers per
    hour on average in dense urban areas during peak hours. In addition to congestion, poor
    road safety is a growing issue. Morocco leads the Bank’s Middle East and North Africa
    Region in terms of traffic accidents. In 2012, there were 48,214 incidents in urban areas,
    with 1,350 fatalities, 4,570 serious injuries, and 61,180 slight injuries.1

Table 2. Regions with Largest Shares of the Car Fleet in Circulation (thousands; in
rank order for 2014)
    Region                                         2006      2010        2014           Sharea(%)                  Growthb
                                                                                                                     (%)
    Grand Casablanca                                777       968        1,187              34.5                      5.4
    Rabat-Salé-Zemmour-Zaer                         344       443         547               15.9                      5.9
    Oriental                                        165       228         266                7.8                      6.1
    Tanger-Tetouen                                  160       204         252                7.4                      5.9
    Souss-Massa-Daraa                               125       175         221               6.4                       7.3
    Marrakech-Tansift-Al Haouz                      105       148         190                5.5                      7.7
    Fés-Boulmane                                    104       133         163                4.8                      5.7
    Meknes-Tafilalet                                103       125         151                4.4                      4.5
    Garb-Chrarda-Benihssine                          55        81         104                3.0                      8.1
    Doukala-Abda                                     57        74          94                2.8                      6.6
Source: Transport Routier en Chiffres posted in the website of the Ministère de l’Équipment, du Transport et de la Logistique:
http://www.equipement.gov.ma/Pages/accueil.aspx.
Note:
a. Percentage share of the total number in the car fleet. The rest of the regions include (in rank order): Chaouia-Ouardiga, Tadla-
Azilal, Taza-Al Hoceima-Taounate, Laâyoune-Boujdour-Sakia el Hamra, Guelmim-Es-Semara, and Oued Ed-Dahab-Lagouira.
b. Average annual growth rate between 2006 and 2014.

           Intermodal transport is inefficient; operators define themselves in
    competitive rather than complementary roles. Integration of transport modes and
    accessibility to users need to be greatly improved. Deficiencies in intermodal
    interoperability have forced users to inefficiently combine different tickets, passes, and
    fares for the same trip. Schedules for different modes of transport are uncoordinated.

1
 National Committee for the Prevention of Traffic Accidents (Comité National de Prévention des Accidents de la Circulation—
CNPAC) latest available data (2012).
                                                                3


    Real-time passenger information systems are lacking, hence potentials users do not have
    timely information on the availability and schedules of intermodal options. The capacity
    of transfer stations is severely insufficient. To reach their connection, commuters have to
    use individual or shared taxis, park their cars in distant parking areas, and/or walk
    increasingly long distances to the connection point.

             Traffic accidents and inadequate access to public transport
    disproportionately affect the poor, women, and persons with limited mobility.
    While the contribution of urban areas to Morocco’s economy increases, urban poverty
    and inequality remain entrenched. The urban sector contributes about 75 percent of
    Morocco’s GDP, yet about 1 million inhabitants (5.3 percent of the urban population)
    still live below the relative poverty threshold of less than US$1.30 per day. A further 2.3
    million urban inhabitants (13.6 percent of the total population) have daily expenditures
    of US$1.30 to $1.90 per person and are considered economically vulnerable. Despite
    relatively low fares, the cost of using public transport services are often out of reach for
    the poor due to the necessity of combining different modes. Moreover, availability of
    public transport in poor neighborhoods is often insufficient because of their location in
    peripheral urban areas and the poor quality of roads. Since spending on transport can
    reach as much as 20 percent of the poorest households’ incomes in Morocco, walking
    remains the primary means of mobility for the poor. Thus, as pedestrians and cyclists,
    the poor are the most vulnerable road users and account for most of traffic-related deaths
    and injuries, which impose an estimated economic burden of about 2 percent of GDP on
    the affected households and communities.

            Social sustainability of the urban transport sector remains inadequate, thus
    worsening the deficit of social integration. The inadequate quantity and quality of
    public urban transport impedes access to jobs, education, and health services. Gender
    issues have also become increasingly relevant as a rapidly growing number of women
    become more reliant on public urban transport. However, despite significant progress,
    notably in the light rail systems of Rabat and Casablanca, most women still experience
    inadequacies particularly in terms of safety, which obstruct their access to basic social
    services, limit their labor force participation, and potentially reduce their income.2
    Accessibility is especially problematic for persons with limited mobility (PLM),
    including the elderly and women who are pregnant or are carrying children, which
    represent up to 18 percent of citizens in major cities. Bus stops, sidewalks, and
    pedestrian crossings severely lack accessibility features such as ramps, access paths,
    lifts, seating, and signs (World Bank 2015, page 3).

           Morocco’s urban mobility issues stem in large part from significant
    underinvestment in the sector. Expenditures on local urban transport (UT)
    infrastructure have been about one-third of the required level of investments (World
    Bank 2009b). Instead of public urban transport, most municipalities have focused their
    modest urban mobility investments on expanding road capacity to cope with the large
    increase in car ownership in recent years; as shown in table 1.1, the average annual
    growth rates in utility vehicles and motorcycles are even faster. Despite the
    government’s recent support for the light rail systems in Greater Rabat and Casablanca
2
    Gender survey in Casablanca conducted by the World Bank in 2011.
                                            4


(US$1.3 billion), the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) estimates the investment needs in
public UT infrastructure to remain substantial at about US$3 billion over the next
decade. Several factors explain the current underinvestment:

     Low financial resources in cities due to limitations in their taxation capability,
      which relies mainly on property taxation and minor licensing revenues
     Limited local borrowing capacity and reliance of cities on fiscal transfers for their
      budgets (60 percent on average), with the central government taking
      responsibility for collecting 30 percent of the national value-added tax on behalf
      of cities
     Absence of an optimal and operational funding mechanism by the central
      government to fund the UT sector (progress in this area is discussed in section 4
      of this report).

        The lack of financial sustainability has hindered the development of the
urban transport sector. The sector’s precarious financial situation prevails and has led
to bankruptcies of several public and private operators in the past decade. With fares
rarely raised due to political pressure and revenues covering only a modest portion of
operating costs, the public UT deficit reached US$55 million in Casablanca and Greater
Rabat in 2013. Public service obligations (such as connecting remote areas and
concessionary fares to students) are imposed on operators by their concessions contracts
without full compensation by the government. Operators also suffer from cutthroat
competition from shared taxis and the informal sector on the most profitable routes.
Operating costs have escalated due to the high maintenance and fuel costs of aging
fleets, and substantial personnel costs from historic overstaffing and legacy contracts.
Thus, in this difficult environment, most operators have been unable to renew their fleet
or expand services to meet the rapid growth in demand.

      The capacity to manage the urban transport sector requires further
strengthening. This institutional issue needs to be addressed at several levels:

     The MOI lacks a centralized monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system and other
      tools to manage the sector. (This is being addressed in the Bank-financed
      Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program that was approved in December
      2015.)
     The Division of Urban Mobility and Transport (Division des Déplacements
      Urbains et des Transports—DDUT) within the MOI’s General Directorate of
      Local Governments (DGCL) has sufficient capability and expertise to provide
      technical guidance to cities in preparing urban mobility master plans (Plans de
      Déplacements Urbains— PDU). However, its staffing is inadequately scaled to its
      expanding responsibilities.
     Despite training initiatives, most cities have limited implementation capability
      due to (i) the lack of experienced technical staff, (ii) a preoccupation with
      operational and administrative tasks, and (iii) the lack of experience in managing
      complex projects and large contracts with the private sector.
     Institutional coordination at the local level remains deficient. Most
      agglomerations still lack formal UT management and planning agencies, hence
                                                                5


          different entities may take measures independently within their own respective
          competencies, with some informal cooperation at best.


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives

           The development objectives of the Urban Transport Sector Development Policy
    Loan (UT DPL) coincide with three of the government’s Strategic Policy Areas for
    Morocco’s urban transport sector, as follows: (i) to improve the governance of the urban
    transport sector, (ii) to increase the efficiency and supply of urban transport services and
    infrastructure, and (iii) to improve environmental and social sector sustainability (World
    Bank 2011, page I and annex 2). The government implemented 10 key Prior Actions
    intended to achieve specific outcomes, as discussed under Relevance of Design and in
    the assessment of the Achievement of Objectives in section 4.

Relevance of Objectives

            The objectives addressed by the UT DPL were well aligned with the Bank’s
    country strategy and the main sector priorities of the government, as enunciated in
    its Letter of Sector Development Policy.3 When the DPL was being prepared, Morocco’s
    UT sector had many structural, operational, and institutional weaknesses. Urban
    transport sector planning and management needed considerable strengthening.
    Infrastructure and provision of services were inadequate. Demand for public mass
    transport was growing rapidly, yet the vehicle fleet was aging rapidly and needed to be
    replaced. Traffic congestion and traffic management challenges mounted as the number
    of private vehicles grew. Environmental and social issues, particularly the access of
    persons with limited mobility, were not being addressed adequately. At appraisal, the
    UT DPL’s objectives were directly relevant to the World Bank’s Country Partnership
    Strategy for fiscal years 2010–13 for Morocco, which highlighted the role of an UT
    development policy instrument in helping mainstream the Bank’s governance agenda,
    and contributing to three main strategic pillars: (i) encouraging growth, competitiveness,
    and employment; (ii) improving the access to, and the quality of, public services; and
    (iii) addressing climate change challenges.

          The UT DPL’s policy reform areas remain relevant and have become even
    more so now. In the years after the UT DPL closed, the critical importance of (i)
    focusing on sector financial sustainability and (ii) intensifying activities to build the
    planning and implementation capacities of municipalities and agglomerations, came into
    much sharper focus. Moreover, the government’s support to accelerate that process
    became more urgent. Currently, the governance, efficiency, and service delivery goals
    that were pursued under the UT DPL are being sustained as key Results Areas and



3
 Letter of Sector Development Policy dated February 9, 2011 from the Minister of the Interior of the government of Morocco to Mr.
Robert Zoellick, President of the World Bank.
                                                                6


    Strategic Outcomes within the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy with the Kingdom
    of Morocco for fiscal years 2014–17.

            The UT DPL’s objectives are being pursued much more intensively four
    years after it closed, mainly through the government’s consistent strategic focus and
    continuing actions, and in part through the planned activities of the Bank-financed
    Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program approved in December 2015 and
    launched in March 2016. The Program’s Development Objective (PDO) is “to
    strengthen the capacity of urban transport institutions to plan, implement, and monitor
    infrastructure and services, and to improve the level of service of urban transport in
    targeted corridors in the Program Area” (World Bank 2015, pages vi and 17).4 This PDO
    is fully consistent with the prior DPL’s longer term goal, which is “to improve the
    efficiency of urban transport in large cities, ultimately promoting economic growth,
    social development, and quality of life in a sustainable way for Morocco’s urban
    citizens” (World Bank 2011, page 23).

          Based on the detailed macroeconomic analysis that underpinned the UT DPL’s
    choice of priority policy reforms and Prior Actions, and the project’s relevance at
    appraisal and more so at present, the relevance of the UT DPL’s objectives is rated
    substantial.

Relevance of Design

           The DPL’s Prior Actions were intended to accelerate policy and institutional
    measures, raise the profile of UT issues, coalesce stakeholders, and set timelines. Table
    4.1 shows these 10 Prior Actions —together with the performance indicators, baselines,
    and targets. Appendix B shows the full operational policy matrix.

    2.7 Prior Actions are central to DPL design, yet in this DPL, the additionality of
    the Prior Actions and the attribution of outcomes to the Bank’s intervention, are
    not fully clear. Many of the Prior Actions had already been identified and initiated by
    the government before the DPL’s appraisal (in December 2010), approval, and
    implementation. For example, the Organizing Authority for Casablanca (AODU 2014,
    paragraph 4.2) had already been established in July 2008, almost three years ahead of
    the DPL Board date of March 15, 2011. A few other actions seemed to have already
    been in effect or ongoing significantly ahead of the Board date, as implied (but not
    clearly specified) in the government’s Letter of Development Policy. This leads to
    questions related to the counterfactual. In the absence of the DPL, would the reforms
    have proceeded anyway? If so, how significant is the value-added of the DPL, apart
    from the short-term benefit to the government of a budget infusion? Similar
    counterfactual questions arose in the Bank-financed urban transport DPL for Chile, as
    discussed in box 2.1. To derive lessons of broader applicability, these issues should be
    further reviewed and evaluated across completed sector DPLs.



4
 The Program Area consists of the following regions: Béni Mellal-Khénifra, Casablanca-Settat, Drâa-Tafilalet, Fès-Meknès,
Marrakech-Safi, Oriental, Rabat-Salé-Kénitra, Souss-Massa, and Tanger-Tétouan-Al Hoceïma.
                                                            7




Box 1. Chile Urban Transport DPL: Issues of Value Added and Bank Attribution
IEG’s Implementation Completion Report Review for this project found that the program
objectives were too broad and vague to be measured and evaluated (for example, “contribute to
Santiago’s transformation into a highly competitive world city,” and “improve its quality of
life”). The project’s design was assessed as modest for several reasons. There is a notable
disparity between the scope of the program objectives and the marginal scope of the Bank’s
intervention; thus, the Bank’s comparative advantage and value added were unclear. Project
design was complex and the project was launched prematurely. The building blocks of a fully
operational system (such as, ticketing systems, on-bus SmartCard reading equipment, a fleet
management system, and a public information campaign) were not in place when the reform
program was launched, which led to implementation problems and public discontent. In
hindsight, a more gradual implementation plan (or a postponement of system launch) would
have been more appropriate. The conditionality was complied with and the loan was disbursed,
but the link between the Bank’s contribution and the attainment of the project objectives was
loose at best.
The choice of a DPL as the Bank assistance instrument was probably inappropriate. To support
institutional reforms, a stand-alone technical assistance loan might have been more appropriate.
The government’s decision not to proceed with DPL2 reduced the Bank’s leverage. Finally, the
project’s monitoring and evaluation system was inadequate to measure the achievement of both
the broad and specific project objectives.
Source: IEG, ICR Review for the Chile Urban Transport DPL, January 31, 2011.



       In addition to the question of additionality, the choice of instrument raises
issues. The DPL’s processing methodology and the selection of a one-tranche
instrument were based on lessons from the failure of two earlier two-tranche DPLs for
the energy and water sectors, which did not proceed beyond the first tranche. However,
employing solely the DPL instrument may have detracted from achieving the project’s
objectives, particularly the second one on increasing the efficiency and supply of urban
transport services and infrastructure. The project design’s focus on short-term actions
was consistent with the government’s budgetary constraints and planning cycle, and the
design relied heavily on building consensus among various government entities.
However, both the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and IEG’s ICR Review
acknowledge that improving the efficiency of urban transport could not be attained
within the lifetime of a single-tranche DPL and would also require substantial
complementary investments and technical assistance. Moreover, a DPL tends to focus
on central government agencies—to address the gaps in the sector’s institutional
structure and capacity and to remove existing weaknesses in coordination and
planning—whereas many of the policy actions in the UT sector are the responsibility of
local authorities, who are influenced by local political constraints. Addressing the
infrastructure constraints and providing incentives for reform at the local levels—where
the physical and institutional capacity improvements are most urgently required—would
normally require accompanying investments and technical assistance. Thus, the DPL as
a Bank lending instrument is not suited to address recurrent investment needs, for which
the Investment Project Financing (IPF) instrument would be more appropriate. Rather,
DPLs are “a budgetary infusion to support reforms in a given sector…to play the role of
                                                         8


 a lever to strengthen institutional and regulatory capacities.”5 While it is an adequate
 instrument to enhance central government policies, the DPL could not be expected to
 have direct impacts at the local level, unless accompanied by an IPF.

         The focus on reorganizing bus services without traffic engineering or bus
 priority measures is also a design shortcoming. Both Prior Actions 5 and 6 have
 important weaknesses, that is, the DPL focused primarily on the reorganization of bus
 services by attempting to replace the informal buses by a single bus company that would
 operate on modern business principles. However, the main shortcoming of this approach
 is the absence of traffic engineering or bus priority measures that would have helped the
 new company to operate more efficiently in a generally congested street system. In Latin
 America, by way of comparison, the reform of the bus service supply was combined
 with the introduction of bus rapid transit (BRT) corridors that (i) permitted efficient bus
 speeds, unfettered by street congestion, and (ii) made it attractive to many informal bus
 operators to join the bus companies that are operating the BRT. Moreover, two other
 elements that are usually addressed when developing a modern urban transport policy
 are (i) the promotion of and support to non-motorized transport (pedestrians and
 cyclists) and (ii) transport demand management measures that aim to make it more
 attractive for car users to switch to another mode, thereby reducing congestion. (See also
 paragraph 4.23 and box 4.2, which discuss tramway expansion in relation to a BRT
 option and broader UT needs.)

         The UT DPL’s Prior Actions built upon the government’s own priorities and
 were causally well-linked to the targeted outcomes. The documents reviewed for this
 assessment show that the choice of Prior Actions (notably Prior Actions 1, 2, and 3) took
 into full account the institutional priorities—within the framework of the Urban
 Transport Strategy—that the government was already initiating during the project’s
 preparation period. The Prior Actions consisted of concrete legal, regulatory,
 contractual, planning, and organizational steps to “jump-start” reform processes and
 achieve specific results (World Bank 2011, page 55). The chain of causality was clear
 and direct between (i) the implementation of the 10 Prior Actions and the achievement
 of reforms in the three policy areas, and (ii) their contribution to sectoral results that are
 consistent with the higher-level development objective. For example, the Prior Actions
 that targeted the restructuring of contracts for operators of bus services, regulatory
 improvements for public-private partnerships, and funding mechanisms, could logically
 be expected to lead to increased efficiency and supply of bus services and
 infrastructure—the DPL’s Second Policy Area. The project’s design, however, should
 have addressed urban transport services as a whole, rather than just bus services. Just
 after the DPL was approved, tramways started operation in Rabat (2011) and Casablanca
 (2012). These two high-cost urban transport investments had a significant influence on
 transport policy of those two cities, more so than the other components of the DPL. As
 discussed below, the operation should have been accompanied by a technical assistance
 loan (as had been the case with the Chile Urban Transport DPL) to develop an analytical
 approach for (i) integrating the new tram services with the urban transport systems as a
 whole, and (ii) assisting in the expansion of mass transit in an economically efficient


5 World Bank brochure, Country Office, Rabat, Morocco.
                                           9


way. (See, for example, the comparison between tramway and lower-cost bus rapid
transit investments discussed box 4.2).

       The project’s design benefitted significantly from a series of Bank diagnostic
reports, studies, and a landmark Sector Strategy Note. Based on interviews and
document reviews, IEG found that the project’s design was deeply rooted in the Bank’s
analyses and advice, which also underpinned its dialogue with the government on UT
sector issues and options to address those challenges. These studies, which were made
possible by several trust funds (from France, Switzerland, and Germany), included the
following:

      Five thematic diagnostic reports on urban transport (2006)
      Study on urban transport financing systems (2007)
      Review of investment options for Casablanca (2008)
      Morocco Urban Transport Strategy Note (2008)

       Wide participation from diverse stakeholders was evident from several
workshops and high-level seminars. Technical visits to Tunisia (2007), France (2008),
and Brazil (2008) were also conducted for Moroccan UT experts and decision makers.
All these efforts culminated in the preparation and wide dissemination of the Bank’s
Urban Transport Strategy Note (April 2008), which served as the analytical foundation
for the UT DPL. In parallel, the government also significantly enriched the analytical
groundwork through its studies on UT master plans for Casablanca and Rabat as well as
diagnostics for seven large or medium size cities. The UT DPL’s Third Strategic Policy
Area was also based on a Bank review of disability and urban transport and an analysis
of gender and urban transport in Casablanca. The participatory approach and consistent
collaboration with stakeholders at all levels (national, municipal, and other donors) was
valuable in enhancing consensus on the key priorities to be addressed in the UT DPL
and the necessary actions, as reflected in its eventual design.

       The Bank’s analytical and advisory work was robust and highly participatory;
moreover, the project’s chain of results was well rooted in an in-depth macroeconomic
and sectoral analysis required of DPLs. However, even while taking into account
country programming considerations and the government’s preference for policy lending
rather than investment project financing, the much-needed increases in urban transport
supply, operational efficiency improvements, and institutional strengthening at the
municipal and agglomeration levels were only indirectly and inadequately addressed by
the stand-alone DPL instrument, which is designed to focus the Bank’s policy and
reform dialogue on central government agencies. Thus, on balance, the relevance of
design is rated modest.

3. Implementation
Institutional Framework and Implementation Arrangements

      The responsible ministry for the urban transport sector is the Ministry of Interior
(MOI), through its General Directorate of Local Governments (Direction Générale des
Collectivités Locales— DGCL) and its Urban Mobility and Transport Division (Division
                                           10


des Déplacements Urbains et du Transport— DDUT). The MOI is in charge of
overseeing and supporting the UT activities of cities throughout Morocco, as well as the
design, implementation, and monitoring at the central level of specific measures to
develop the sector. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministère de l’Économie et
des Finances— MEF), especially its Directorate of Budget (Direction du Budget) is in
charge of allocating financial resources through the General Budget to implement of the
sector’s policies and initiatives. The Ministry of Urban Planning (Ministère de
l’Urbanisme et de l’Aménagement du Territoire) oversees the regulation of land use in
urban areas that strongly influence urban development and transport. The Ministry of
Equipment, Transport and Logistics (Ministère de l’Équipement, du Transport et de la
Logistique) is in charge of providing technical support on the implementation of urban
transport projects, if required.

       Cities are responsible for public urban transport with oversight and support from
the central government. Under the 1960 Municipal Charter (Charte communale), cities
are in charge of providing public urban transport services and maintaining its
infrastructure and equipment. In most cities, those services are provided by private
operators under concession or delegated services contracts.

        The IBRD Loan was approved by the Board on March 15, 2011 and became
effective on August 18, 2011. The MOI was the designated implementing agency given
its responsibility for urban transport in Morocco and its direct involvement in executing
8 out of the program’s 10 Prior Actions. The loan was fully disbursed in a single tranche
upon effectiveness, thus giving the project a five-month implementation period. The
operation closed as scheduled on December 31, 2011. The Bank conducted two
supervision missions in June 27, 2011 and December 22, 2011.

      The DPL’s implementation was negatively affected by the lack of interagency
coordination, limited government resources for program preparation, and weak
capacity at the local level, as explained below:

      The main negative factor was the inadequate coordination of implementing
       agencies. Although joint meetings were held during the DPL's preparation to
       define the scope of actions, it eventually proved difficult to convene large
       meetings involving all the concerned parties. The MOI did not have the
       resources to continue the detailed and in-depth follow-ups required. Thus, the
       various agencies had to implement their respective actions separately, with the
       Bank team providing the necessary coordination and information transfer during
       its visits. This factor had direct implications on the viability of making the
       National Commission on Urban Transport fully operational (see section 4 on
       “The Achievement of Objectives,” under Prior Action 2).

      The MOI’s resources for preparing the DPL were insufficient due to a mix of (i)
       the relative novelty of government involvement in the urban transport sector, (ii)
       insufficient staffing to handle the broad range of proposed program actions, and
       (iii) very limited funding from the government or donors for technical assistance
       and policy studies. These factors constrained the scope of what could be
       achieved and affected the speed of program preparation and placed much
                                              11


        responsibility on the Bank team. Preparation of the reforms required a significant
        amount of time.

       Despite their willingness to collaborate, the local authorities lacked the necessary
        capacity to implement some of the program reforms that required their direct
        involvement. Sustaining the commitment of local authorities to the DPL’s
        reforms required the Bank team’s continuous dialogue and technical support.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
       Based on the updated findings of the March 2016 IEG evaluation mission, this
section presents the assessment of the project’s efficacy for the UT DPL’s three specific
objectives, which correspond with the government’s three Strategic Policy Areas of
priority reforms. Table 4.1 answers the following evaluation questions:

(i) For each of the Prior Actions, to what extent were their expected outcomes achieved,
taking into account their respective baselines, outcome targets, and specific performance
indicators?

(ii) To what extent did the achievement of outcomes translate into the overall
achievement of the project’s development objectives?

The performance ratings for the outcomes are based on a scale of Not Achieved,
Partially Achieved, Achieved, or More Than Achieved. The ratings for the three project
objectives are based on a scale of Negligible, Modest, Substantial, or High.

Table 3. Performance Ratings for the Three Objectives based on the Achievement of
Expected Outcomes from the 10 Prior Actions (PA)
 Objective 1: Improve the governance of the urban transport sector – Substantial
 PA1 outcome: To efficiently plan and manage the urban transport sector in the        Partially
 Casablanca agglomeration                                                             achieved
 Indicator: There is a clear plan shared by all stakeholders for the restructuring of
 the bus route network for the agglomeration and this plan is well coordinated with
 the development of all other modes of transport.
 Baseline: no plan
 Target: substantial completion
 PA2 outcome: To effectively coordinate policies and programs among the main          Partially
 government departments involved in the urban transport sector                        achieved
 Indicator: The National Commission for Urban Transport (CNDU) meets at least
 twice a year to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate government actions in the urban
 transport sector.
 Baseline: none
 Target: two meetings
 PA3 outcome: To provide effective central government support to local authorities Achieved
 on urban transport issues
 Indicator: Conventions have been signed by the Ministry of Interior and local
 governments to assist them, including with funding, for the preparation of
 municipal urban strategies and priority investment plans.
 Baseline: none
                                                12


 Target: three large cities
 PA4 outcome: To make sufficient urban transport expertise available in the cities        Achieved
 that have carried out or launched the preparation of municipal urban strategies and
 priority investment plans.
 Indicator: Number of trained experts and number of cities that benefitted from the
 training
 Baseline: none
 Target: 32 experts and 9 cities
 Objective 2: Increase the efficiency and supply of urban transport services and
 infrastructure – Modest
 PA5 outcome: To improve the quality and quantity of bus services in the                  Partially
 agglomeration of Rabat-Sale-Temara                                                       achieved
 Indicator: Number of passenger seat-km supplied by Stareo
 Baseline: 0
 Target: 2.0 billion
 PA6 outcome: To improve the quality and quantity of bus services in the                  Partially
 agglomeration of Casablanca                                                              achieved
 Indicator: Number of passenger seat-km supplied by M’dina Bus
 Baseline: 1.9 billion
 Target: 2.6 billion
 PA7 outcome: To implement a procurement process for outsourcing public                   Partially
 transport services that is in line with international best practice                      achieved
 Indicator: The selection of future public transport operators in large cities is fully
 competitive and transparent.
 Baseline: not applicable
 Target: All
 PA8 outcome: To allocate government financial support to those urban transport           Partially
 investment projects with superior economic and social returns                            achieved
 Indicator: Percentage of the number of projects accepted by state funding that
 comply with the adopted eligibility criteria
 Baseline: 0
 Target: 75 percent

 Objective 3: Improve environmental and social sector sustainability – Substantial
 PA9 outcome: To implement effective vehicle inspection and monitoring systems      Achieved
 Indicator: Number of visits for vehicle inspection, the report of which has been
 issued through the automated electronic process
 Baseline: 1,100,000
 Target: 1,700,000
 PA10 outcome: To mainstream accessibility for persons with limited mobility in     Achieved
 urban transport projects and increase awareness of accessibility issues
 Indicator: Number of cities that have included an accessibility component in their
 rehabilitation or improvement urban transport infrastructure projects
 Baseline: 0
 Target: 2
Source: World Bank, “Program Document: Urban Transport and Development Policy Loan.”
Report No. 58010-MA, February 14, 2011.
                                                               13


Objective 1: Improve the Governance of the Urban Transport Sector
Outcome 1: Efficiently plan and manage the urban transport sector in the Casablanca
agglomeration.

        The AODU, which started and stayed weak, was unable to fulfill its assigned
 responsibilities and was dissolved. The Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements
 Urbains du Grand Casablanca (AODU) was created in July 2008, without adequate
 resources to carry out its tasks of planning and managing urban transport in Casablanca,
 the largest city in the country with 4.5 million inhabitants and considerable transport
 demands, as shown in Table 4.2 (with the latest-available 2014 data obtained by the IEG
 mission).
Table 4. Transport Demand and Modes in Casablanca
 Key Characteristics:
  11 million trips per day
  2.9 trips (on average) per inhabitant per day
  35 percent of trips are related to commuting to centers of education
  28 percent of trips are from domiciles to work places
  63 percent of trips are obligatory (not elective)
  140 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants
  53 percent of inhabitants have to walk due to lack of transport
  Taxis: 15,000 units
  Bus system: 736 buses for 77 lines covering 1,350 kilometers; fare = 4 dirham
  Tramway (since 2012): 1 line of 31 kilometers, 48 stations, and 37 cars with 600 seats;
    fare = 6 dirham
  Key highlight: only relatively few passengers or 1 percent of travel demand (100,000
    passengers per day) are served by the tramway, which had cost as much as US$800 million
    (US$26 million per km times 31 km).
                                                                    Use in 2014                     Number of trips
 Transport mode                                                        (%)                            (millions)

 Car                                                                      14.5                            1.6
 Mass transit (Bus 12%; Tramway 1%)                                       13.0                            1.4
 Taxi rouge (small taxis)                                                  10.3                           1.7
 Taxi urbain (6-seater “grands taxi”)                                      5.2
 Motorcycle                                                                4.0                           0.44
 Walking                                                                  53.0                           5.86
                   TOTAL                                                  100.0                          11.0
Source: Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains. “Situation de la Mobilité à Casablanca,”
Casablanca, September 2014.

 AODU had become partially operational in 2009 through a work plan, a budget, a core
 group of technical experts, and some technical assistance. The DPL was instrumental in
 making AODU fully operational. In October 2010 and January 2011, respectively, it
 launched two studies on the restructuring of the bus network (operated by M’dina Bus
 under a delegated management contract) and traffic management. By the closing of the
 UT DPL in December2011, the bus route network restructuring plan had been
 completed. However, the IEG mission obtained new information that by 2014, the
                                           14


budget allocations had been decreasing. Between 2012 and 2014, its budget—which was
shared one-third each by the regional, city, and municipal budgets—was decreased from
DH 6.5 million in 2012, to DH 5.5 million in 2014, and eventually DH 4.5 million in
2013. Moreover, AODU still had not been endowed with the necessary financial and
institutional independence to function fully as the overall planning, coordinating, and
regulatory authority for the agglomeration of Greater Casablanca. Until then, it had been
serving more as an entity for conducting studies and organizing discussion fora to
promote information exchange, multiparty consultation, and informal coordination. For
lack of sufficiently tangible results to justify a continued budget, the Greater Casablanca
regional council decided to dissolve AODU on March 2015.

       The light rail company Casa Transports (as a direct corollary to its tramway
expansion and planned investments) is now performing planning and coordinating
roles for Greater Casablanca, which were originally assigned to AODU. In 2009,
about two years before the Bank Board’s approval of the UT DPL, Casablanca and
Greater Rabat created two local joint ownership companies (Société de Développement
Local) to develop their respective light rail systems. The enterprise for Casablanca is
Casa Transports, which has performed satisfactorily; although not attributable to the
DPL, it has delivered the tramway infrastructure on time and within budget, and is
providing services that compare favorably to international standards (World Bank 2015,
page 11). The IEG mission was informed that building on this success, Casa Transports
evolved rapidly, after the UT DPL closed, into the key roles of public investment
management and investment budget execution in central Casablanca, and eventually
covered the Greater Casablanca agglomeration for planned bus rapid transit, tramway
extension, and other investments, for which financing has already been mobilized.
According to Casa Transports, agreements have been signed for five new tramway lines
by 2022, including parking and connecting stops to incentivize tramway use. New bus
corridors and traffic management investments are also planned. Review of documents
obtained by the IEG mission indicate that Casa Transports has absorbed the core
responsibilities of the AODU after the latter’s dissolution. A cautious approach,
however, remains important. While getting the tramway built was an achievement, Casa
Transports’ focus has been, and continues to be, the development of a tramway system,
whereas a broader vision is required that should include other modes of public transport
(such as BRT), transport demand management, and nonmotorized transport. Such a
focus on capital-intensive tramways is not uncommon in other cities, too, where urban
rail agencies often assume a powerful and not always beneficial position. The function
of comprehensive urban transport planning should not be captured by the tramway
interests and the “pull” of building five more lines by 2022.

       The performance of the bus company, M’Dina Bus, is hampered the
persistent issues of inadequate tariffs, financial unsustainability, and lack of
investment funding. The indicator for measuring Prior Action 1’s outcome
achievement was “a clear plan shared by all stakeholders for the restructuring of the bus
route network of the agglomeration that was well coordinated with the development of
all other modes of transport.” When the project closed in 2011, the restructuring plan for
the network of bus routes was still undergoing intensive consultations. The IEG
mission’s interviews indicate that in 2013, the plan was finalized and negotiations were
conducted for M’dina Bus to adopt the new route structure, and to enable fare and
                                                                 15


    ticketing system integration between its bus system and the tramway system of Casa
    Transport. This integration, however, has not yet been achieved.

           M’dina Bus key constraints stem from legacy contracts and fierce
    competition from the informal sector. These factors have caused setbacks in the
    supply and quality of mass bus transit in Casablanca. Mass transit by bus is not covered
    by an overall planning and strategic exercise. Unlike other middle-income countries,
    buses do not benefit from priority schemes or dedicated rights-of-way. More than a third
    of Casablanca’s main intersections remain heavily congested. Buses are forced to share
    those heavily congested roads with cars that occupy much more road space per
    passenger. Because of poor enforcement, shared taxis and the informal sector have filled
    (illegally) the vacuum resulting from deficient bus services.

           The functions for planning, implementing, and managing investments for
    Greater Casablanca are being performed with Casa Transports acting as the lead
    organizing agency. Substantial progress has been achieved in the light rail system of
    Casablanca, which together with that of Rabat cost the government US$1.3 billion.
    Moreover, UT planning and management has shown sustained improvements through
    the investment budget planning and execution functions that Casa Transports has
    assumed, which had the effect of obviating the need for a potentially duplicative AODU.
    A 2013 UT conference document referred to an AODU study to revise the contract of
    M’Dina Bus and the “coexistence” between AODU and Casa Transport.6 A document
    from Casa Transport (2015) indicated that it was assuming the mandate of AODU as
    part of Casa Transport’s 2015–22 work program, and AODU was dissolved in early
    2016.

            On balance, given (i) the planning, management, and project execution functions
    that grew out of Casa Transports successfully implementing the Casablanca tramway
    system; (ii) the satisfactory implementation performance of Casa Transports to date; and
    (iii) the persistent financial issues for the bus network and bottlenecks to bus-tramway
    integration, Prior Action 1’s target outcome—to efficiently plan and manage the urban
    transport sector in the Casablanca agglomeration—has been only partially achieved.

Outcome 2: Effectively coordinate policies and programs among the main government
departments involved in the urban transport sector.

           The National Urban Transport Commission did not become operational and
    thus did not perform any of its designated functions. In line with its Letter of
    Development Policy, the government established a National Urban Transport
    Commission (Commission Nationale des Déplacements Urbains–CNDU) under the
    Ministry of Interior, which will be responsible for (i) coordinating the sectoral policies
    of the ministerial departments involved in urban transport, with a view to ensuring
    policy coherence and convergence; (ii) reviewing various action programs submitted by
    the local governments involved and requiring financial support from the state; and (iii)
    monitoring the implementation of the action plans arising from the strategy. It was also
    charged with laying the groundwork for creating an urban transport authority for Rabat.

6
    Journées Nationales sur le Transport Urbain Durable, Rabat, September 23–24, 2013.
                                          16


The indicator for measuring Prior Action 2’s outcome achievement was that “the CNDU
meets at least twice a year to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate government actions in
the urban transport sector.” The IEG mission was informed that this did not materialize.
The first CNDU meeting took place only after project closure, on May 23, 2012, and it
has not met again. Like the AODU, but to a more fundamental extent driven by the local
political economy, it could not achieve the stature and independence that was originally
expected. The IEG mission concurs with interview results that CNDU did not have the
convening power or legitimizing authority to prevail over the multiple ministries and
local governments to harmonize and oversee their UT programs.

       The MOI’s Division for Urban Mobility and Transport (DDUT), set up as the
technical Secretariat to complement CNDU’s functions, grew sufficiently strong
and assumed many of CNDU’s designated roles. As indicated in the government’s
Letter of Development Policy, the Division des Déplacements Urbains et du Transport
(DDUT) was established in the MOI’s General Directorate of Local Governments. With
Bank support for its institutional strengthening, DDUT soon became the focal point for
managing the government’s UT programs, notably the fund dedicated to the preparation
of urban transport master plans. In addition to centrally collecting and disseminating UT
sector information, DDUT has also reviewed large investment proposals in Casablanca
and Rabat-Salé-Témara, and launched a coordinated action plan to improve traffic
management. It has signed agreements with local governments of four major cities to
provide them funding assistance for preparing municipal urban strategies and priority
investment plans, which are required first steps before state funding support can be
obtained. The IEG mission obtained new information (see box 4.1) regarding the
recently established Urban Transport Fund (Fonds d’Accompagnement des Réformes du
Transport Routier Urbain et Interurbain – FART) and DDUT’s oversight
responsibilities. DDUT is the implementing agency for the Bank-financed Program-for-
Results Urban Transport Program and is directly responsible for the major, sectorwide
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) component of that operation (see paragraph 4.12).
                                                           17



 Box 2. The Urban Transport Fund and Investment Needs
 The Urban Transport Fund (FART) was established in 2014 as a mechanism through which the
 Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) could participate in financing
 urban transport (UT) investments by municipalities and agglomerations throughout Morocco.
 The fund, which has a management committee, has been playing an increasing role in
 prioritizing and planning those investments by requiring compliance with specific criteria
 linked to demonstrating superior economic and social returns to qualify for funding (also
 supported by the DPL under Prior Action 8). DDUT’s oversight of this Fund has equipped it
 with a strong financial incentive to implement a critical task, which is to “review proposals
 submitted by local governments for financial support by the national budget” and to “monitor
 progress”—a task earlier expected of the transitional CNDU. Investment needs in Morocco’s
 UT sector are estimated to reach DH 30 billion (about US$3 billion) in the next 10 years. It is
 anticipated that the MOI and MOF would each contribute DH 1 billion a year (for a total of
 DH 20 billion during the next decade), while the local entities sponsoring the investments—
 through Local Joint Ownership Companies (SDL)—would contribute DH 10 billion from their
 own resources. The fund would also cover debt repayments (for example, on the tramway
 investments of Casa Transports) and operational deficits because the prevailing tariffs do not
 fully cover costs.
 Source: World Bank, “Project Appraisal Document: Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program.” Report No. 1010110-MA.


       DDUT has supported the planning, preparation and prioritization of UT
investments, but interagency coordination remains a challenge. Since the CNDU has
ceased to operate, the DDUT had taken over the role of providing half of the cost of
preparing UT project and prioritizing investments among government departments, but
more importantly vis-à-vis local governments. For this task, it is backed up by
mechanisms to finance half of project preparation costs, the financial incentives
stemming from the Urban Transport Fund, and the application of criteria to allocate
funding to projects with the highest returns. Much work remains, however, to achieve
consistency and complementarity among the strategies of the main ministries that
involve the UT sector; moreover, monitoring of the sector’s development still needs
considerable strengthening. Thus, on balance, the target outcome of Prior Action 2— the
effective coordination of policies and programs among the main government
departments involved in the UT sector—has been only partially achieved.

Outcome 3: Provide effective central government support to local authorities on urban
transport issues.

        The number of agreements signed with cities exceed the DPL target. As
discussed under Prior Action 2 above, DDUT has satisfactorily assumed the important
role of technical management for the UT sector at the national level, while at the same
time supporting local governments in planning and mobilizing financing for UT
projects. The indicator for measuring Prior Action 3’s outcome achievement was that
“Conventions have been signed by the Ministry of Interior and local governments to
assist them, including with funding, for the preparation of municipal urban strategies and
priority investment plans.” From a baseline of zero, and with DDUT’s support and
facilitation, the MOI has signed four agreements with the cities of Agadir, Kenitra,
Oujda, and Settat, which exceeded the original indicator that targeted three large cities.
                                            18


       DDUT’s expanding responsibilities now include the development of a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the urban transport sector. For the
Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program approved in December 2015, DDUT will
be responsible for (i) day-to-day program implementation, (ii) monitoring the
achievement of the annual results, and (iii) preparation of annual progress reports, the
mid-term review, and consolidated financial statements. These responsibilities will
require timely collection and provision of monitoring data, including environmental and
social records, and verification documents to enable the Bank to disburse against
verified results. Within the project, DDUT is developing a much-needed M&E system
for the UT sector, based on international experience. For this purpose, DDUT pre-
identified sectorwide data needs with the Bank’s technical support. While there is still a
need to augment its staff to meet its growing responsibilities, DDUT has proven that it
has the in-house expertise and ability to provide technical guidance to cities, particularly
in the preparation of Urban Mobility Master Plans (Plans de Déplacements Urbains—
PDU). The IEG mission’s update found that 10 PDUs have been completed, with 5 more
nearing completion, such that most cities in Morocco will soon have these master plans.
Hence, Prior Action 3’s target outcome—for the central government to provide effective
support to local authorities on urban transport issues—has been sustainably achieved.

Outcome 4: Make sufficient urban transport expertise available in the cities that have
carried out or launched the preparation of municipal urban strategies and priority
investment plans.

        Training activities have resulted in a network of UT experts and knowledge
exchange among Moroccan cities. At the time of project closing, a core group of 32
managers and technical specialists from 11 cities benefited from an UT training
program, which received positive feedback and was continued in a follow-up program
that was similar to the one carried out by the World Bank with French aid in 2008.
About 55 persons have been trained in total, forming a core group of national-level
experts who share basic competencies, a pool of information, and a common approach to
addressing sector issues. In the past few years, the Bank managed the Leaders in Urban
Transport Planning (LUTP) program, which has trained more than 50 staffers and
representatives at the central, regional, and local level in Morocco. These efforts have
facilitated the exchange of experiences among Moroccan cities on UT activities and
helped create an informal network of UT experts for mutual assistance on addressing UT
issues.

       M&E training needs to be strengthened, with assistance programmed under
the new Bank-financed urban transport project. As part of the Program-for-Results
Urban Transport Program, focused training is to be provided to establish and operate a
sectorwide, computer-based UT M&E system. This type of specific M&E training is
needed to enable periodic reporting to the central system and verification of results in
line with international practice and standards. The M&E training sessions will focus on
strengthening local capabilities for (i) data collection, (ii) data quality and integrity
control, and (iii) the use of data to inform decision-making processes. Capacity would
also be strengthened on impact evaluation techniques and international practices for
measuring results, including gender and poverty impact assessment. The Bank will
                                            19


provide methodological guidance to the DDUT on panel survey methodology (sampling,
indicators, and so on) to measure the impact of urban transport expenditures on citizens.

       Training programs are continuing, with Bank and donor support. At the
central level, the core expert staff are in responsible positions in various sector
institutions, and there is clear evidence of a growing emphasis on targeting training to
the municipal and agglomeration levels. The French and German aid agencies have
substantial, ongoing capacity-building programs, with a strong focus on local
municipalities and agglomerations. GIZ, for example, has a CoMun-Coopération
Municipale program with 13 municipal projects that include exchange study trips and
on-the-job training in Germany; GIZ also assists in the preparation of project proposals
and feasibility studies, which remains a major area of weakness among municipalities.
Agence Française de Développement (AFD) is providing assistance to prepare an
operationally oriented guide for municipalities to (i) set up joint local ownership
companies (SDL) and (ii) access the Urban Transport Fund (see paragraph 4.9 and box
4.1). DDUT is also providing technical expertise for the preparation of Urban Mobility
Master Plans (PDUs) and is overseeing the funding mechanism that provides half of the
cost of the pre-investment studies. Thus, Prior Action 4’s target outcome—sufficient UT
expertise for the preparation of urban strategies and priority investment plans—has been
achieved and is likely to be sustainable.

       Based on the Partial Achievement of the specific indicators and outcomes
supported by Prior Actions 1 and 2, and the Full Achievement of the indicators and
outcomes for Prior Actions 3 and 4, the achievement of outcomes for Objective 1 is
rated Substantial.

Objective 2: Increase the Efficiency and Supply of Transport Services
and Infrastructure
Outcome 5: Improve the quality and quantity of bus services in the agglomeration of
Rabat-Salé-Témara.

       Although targets were met or exceeded, Stareo’s overestimate of demand
growth and low tariff offer led to its bankruptcy and withdrawal. By the project’s
closing date, Stareo, a private operator, had been selected through competitive bidding
to provide bus services in the Rabat-Salé-Témara metropolitan area that had been done
previously by informal bus operators. Stareo absorbed vehicles and staff, renewed the
bus fleet, and restructured the bus network routes. It was able to supply 2.26 billion
passenger seat-km (exceeding the target of 2 billion) and was able to increase service
significantly on some neglected routes linking Rabat to the rapidly developing western
part of the agglomeration. However, at the bidding process, Stareo had overestimated
potential demand growth and offered a very low tariff. Consequently, its revenues could
not meet its operating costs. It tried to obtain a tariff increase by amending its contract,
but the local governments refused to renegotiate. Stareo filed for bankruptcy, leading the
public sector (the municipalities of Rabat, Salé, and Témara) to take over and run it
since then. The municipalities continue to have a very weak capacity to regulate and
supervise public transport services. The association of municipalities, which has grown
when other municipalities joined, functions as a decision-making body but has no
                                           20


technical capacity and only limited administrative staff. The association relies on the
technical staff of Stareo and the tramway company. The municipal authorities of the
agglomeration of Greater Rabat have been trying to identify a long-term solution that
would renew a public-private partnership, including the possibility of a single agency to
organize and manage both the bus and the tramway network.

       While the supply of passenger seat-km has increased, the operational
performance of the bus network still needs much improvement. Bus network
performance has not changed much, despite some anecdotal statements that it has
improved. Data on improved quality and overall performance is lacking, which the new
Bank-financed Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program intends to address under
its M&E component (see paragraphs 4.12 and 4.14). Public urban transport continues to
suffer from inadequate speed and reliability. Operators report that commercial speeds
are particularly low and unpredictable, going down as low as 5 kilometers per hour on
average in the dense urban areas during peak hours. This situation is due to congestion,
interaction with cars, frequent stops, and inefficient boarding and alighting. In addition
to losses in time, productivity, and quality of life, operators have indicated that it
increases their operating costs by at least 10 percent, while decreasing reliability and
rendering bus schedules useless. Although generally buses are the most cost-effective
and efficient motorized transport mode, buses in Rabat and Casablanca still do not
benefit from priority schemes or dedicated right-of-ways as in other middle-income
countries. In Morocco, buses are forced to share the severely congested urban roads with
cars that occupy substantially more road space per passenger. Moreover, due to poor
enforcement, the vacuum created by deficient bus services has been filled by other
collective, less efficient modes such as shared taxis, as well as the informal sector
(illegally) in some instances (World Bank 2015, page 5).

       Efforts to form a new public-private partnership are slow because municipal
capacities remain weak. Many lessons have been learned from the withdrawal of
Stareo, which has informed the efforts to form a public-private partnership; however,
this process has been slow, and the technical and organizational capacity of the
municipalities remain weak. Thus, on balance, with some credit given to bus fleet
renewal and supply expansion, Prior Action 5’s target outcome—to improve the quality
and quantity of bus services in the agglomeration of Rabat, Salé and Témara—has only
been partially achieved.

Outcome 6: Improve the quality and quantity of bus services in the agglomeration of
Casablanca.

       Although restructuring and capacity targets were largely met, fare
integration of the bus and tramway systems remain to be completed. The
reorganization of M’Dina Bus was complex and entailed a variety of difficult actions
that required time to materialize. The restructuring plan was completed, with a view to
placing all bus services in the Casablanca agglomeration under a single management and
supervisory structure that has a strengthened operator with appropriate financial
capability. Only parts of the targets materialized. M’dina Bus was able to supply 2.4
billion passenger seat-km, which is an increase from the baseline of 1.9 billion but still
short of the targeted 2.6 billion. The IEG mission was informed that the phasing-out of
                                           21


 the old concessionaires has only partially occurred because the authorities judged that
 M'dina Bus did not yet have the required vehicles to cover all the transport needs of
 Casablanca. Although M’dina Bus has largely met its capacity targets and operates most
 of the bus fleet, these remaining concessionaires have continued operating, as shown in
 table 4.3 (with 2014 data obtained by the IEG mission). Moreover, a new electronic
 ticketing system is already in place, however, the implementation of a new route
 structure to enable fare integration of the tramway and bus systems still remains to be
 completed.

Table 5. Percentage Shares of the Public Bus Fleet in Greater Casablanca
 Company                                                  share (%)
 M’dina Bus                                                  60.5
 Lux                                                         14.5
 Chennaoui                                                    5.8
 Zinata                                                       4.6
 Hana                                                         4.2
 Tungis                                                       3.8
 Rafahiya                                                     3.4
 SRTN                                                        2.1
 Sotrum                                                       1.1
Sources: MOTRA 2014; GIZ 2014a.

        M’Dina Bus continues to experience financial unsustainability and
 operational difficulties. In Morocco, the ratio of inhabitants per bus increased from
 3,000 to 4,000 for 1 bus between 1990 and 2000, respectively. The bus network in
 Casablanca (and in other Moroccan cities) was the result of historical factors that have
 not responded to, or kept up with, rapid demand growth and major changes in the
 structure of major urban zones. The network of six-seater “grands taxis” has gradually
 imposed itself on the bus network over the past 20 years without any in-depth analysis
 on their integration or complementarity, such that for both there is an oversupply in
 some areas and scarcity in others. The issues affecting M’dina Bus stem in large part
 from lax or nonexistent regulatory enforcement, similarly described above for the bus
 network in the Rabat agglomeration. The bus operators’ contracts impose public service
 obligations, such as connecting remote peri-urban areas to urban centers or offering
 concessionary fares to students, without full compensation by the government. There is
 an ongoing effort by the government to move away from net-cost to gross-cost contracts,
 but the ideas remain to be tested and implemented. Meanwhile, operators suffer from
 anarchic competition from shared taxis and the informal sector on the most profitable
 routes. Operating costs of most operators are strained by high maintenance and fuel
 costs resulting from aging fleets, and by substantial personnel costs resulting from
 overstaffing, inherited from legacy contracts. In this difficult environment, M’dina Bus
 and other operators have been unable to adequately renew their fleet or expand services
 to keep pace with demand.

        Despite bus fleet renewal and many significant operational improvements, the
 continuing financial and regulatory enforcement difficulties saddling M’dina Bus
 indicate that the target outcome for Prior Action 6—to improve the quality and quantity
 of bus services in the agglomeration of Casablanca—was only partially achieved.
                                             22


      It should be noted that the relative importance given by the DPL to the reform of
the bus systems is justified by the number of bus passenger numbers compared to the
tramway system. In 2014, the Casablanca tramway carried on average 89,700 passengers
per week day while M’dina Bus carried 426,400. In Rabat-Salé, the tramway carried
97,600 passengers per week day while the bus company, Stareo, carried 234,300.

Outcome 7: Implement a procurement process for outsourcing public transport services
that is in line with international best practice.

       A competitive process for selecting private concessions is in place but still
needs to be tested in practice. An Order issued on August 25, 2010, which stipulates
the selection process for public services concessionaires, is in place and enforceable. It
specifies the procedures for bidding, bid evaluation, contract award, and the main
clauses of concession contracts. The preparation of this regulation necessitated a long
coordination process among ministries. The impact, which will be evidenced mostly
over the long term, is expected to be a fair, fully competitive, and transparent selection
of private providers of public transport services. Compliance with the Order has not yet
been tested because no concessions have yet been issued. Because these criteria still
need to prove themselves in practice, Prior Action 7’s target outcome of implementing a
competitive and transparent selection process for future public transport operators in
large cities has been only partially achieved (IEG 2013).

Outcome 8: Allocate government financial support to those urban transport investment
projects with superior economic and social returns.

       Eligibility criteria are in place—but still need to be tested in practice—to
incentivize municipal investments and allocate government financial support to those
with highest returns. The MOI issued a Circular dated November 4, 2010 defining the
eligibility criteria for state funding of UT transport investment projects under the Urban
Transport Fund (Fonds d’Accompagnement des Réformes du Transport Routier Urbain
et Interurbain), discussed previously under Prior Action 2. Investment needs in UT
infrastructure remain substantial, requiring about US$3 billion over the next decade. The
eligibility criteria are intended as a strong incentive for municipalities to strengthen their
capacity, submit priority investment programs, develop multimodal development
strategies, and design investments in line with those strategies. The government would
use this information to properly assess and prioritize which investments should receive
funding, and ensure that local sponsoring authorities are well prepared to implement the
investments. Such prioritization and efficient resource allocation criteria should be
applied in comparing tramway expansion with other urban transport needs. Two
tramway lines (totaling 50 km) have been built in the two main agglomerations of Rabat
and Casablanca at a total cost of US$1.3 billion— $26 million per km—a value that is
consistent with international experience. According to Casa Transports, agreements have
been signed for five new tramway lines to be built by 2022, adding 45 km to the
tramway network. Assuming the same unit cost, this would require an investment of
US$1.2 billion, or 40 percent of the national investment estimates of US$3 billion for
future public UT infrastructure (which in itself already includes repayments for the
existing tramway). It is important to analyze whether spending 40 percent of all urban
transport investments on these tram lines would be worthwhile, considering the large
                                                               23


    number of other road, traffic, and bus-related investment needs in Morocco’s other
    cities. For example, public bus transport in Casablanca accounts for only 14 percent of
    all trips made, compared to 35 percent in Tehran, 40 percent in São Paulo, 50 percent in
    Santiago, and 60 percent in Mexico City. This issue is not new to the government or to
    the Bank, as discussed in box 4.2.



    Box 3. Cost Comparison: Tramway and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Investments
    In 2008, the Bank conducted a studya comparing BRT and tram options for Casablanca (World Bank
    2008a). The Bank team reviewed the tramway plans, which were already at an advanced stage, and
    developed a BRT alternative on the same alignment. The tram was already planned on a segregated
    right-of-way, which made the BRT adaptation relatively easy. BRT costs were estimated based on local
    and international unit prices and compared against the costs already prepared by the tramway
    consultants (Egis-Rail). Operating costs were also estimated as part of a life-cycle analysis for the two
    options. Although the decision makers were already decided on the tramway project, which was almost
    ready for bidding, they were open to the idea of adding BRT routes later to complement the first tram
    line.
    The resulting tramway investment amounted to US$24.8 million per km (similar to the actual
    investment of US$26 million per km), compared to US$7.2 million per km of BRT busway, both
    estimates including the rolling stock. In other words, investments for the BRT option amounted to
    29percent of the tramway costs. Thus, with the investment for 1 km of tramway, 3.4 km of BRT could
    be built with the same capacity as the tram. This difference in cost efficiency is significant, given the
    scarcity of resources for urban transport investment in Morocco.
    It would be useful to compare the Moroccan urban transport experience that of Latin America, where
    cities also faced car congestion and informal and low-quality bus services, and where investment
    resources were also severely constrained. There are 6 short tramway lines in Latin American cities,a but
    there are as many as 85 BRT corridors in 36 cities.b Knowledge about this experience led the Bank’s
    Morocco UT DPL team to prepare the 2008 Casablanca study and subsequently organize a study tour to
    Brazil. However, it is unclear from the DPL documents why BRT was not addressed as a possible
    transport mode that could be more effective in improving public transport conditions than relying on
    tramways and the reorganization of conventional bus services.
    Source: IEG
    Note:
    a. Buenos Aires, Guadalajara, Medellin, Mendoza, Mexico City, and Rio de Janeiro.
    c. ITDP Rapid Transit database.

            The IEG mission found that the government continues to use and publish these
    criteria, which were reiterated as a priority intervention at the 2013 Sustainable
    Transport Conference in Rabat.7 Updated criteria are to be completed by December
    2016; applications from UT investment proponents are expected to follow, which would
    test their validity and applicability. Thus, pending evidence that these criteria actually
    work in practice, Prior Action 8’s target outcome of allocating the government’s
    financial support to UT investment projects with superior economic and social returns
    has been only partially achieved.


7
    Journées Nationales sur le Transport Urbain Durable, Rabat, September 23–24, 2013.
                                                          24


       Based on the Partial Achievement of the specific indicators and outcomes
 supported by Prior Actions 5, 6, 7 and 8, the achievement of Objective 2 is rated modest.

Objective 3: Improve Environmental and Social Sustainability of the
Sector
Outcome 9: Implement effective vehicle inspection and monitoring systems.

        The reforms taken have resulted in substantial improvements in the quantity
 and quality of vehicle inspections. The Ministry of Equipment and Transport
 completed the restructuring of the vehicle inspection centers. An automated electronic
 process was established to (i) prepare vehicle technical inspection reports and (ii)
 conduct technical and financial audits of the vehicle inspection centers. Inspection
 procedures were put in place to reduce fraud in two ways. First, the recorded measures
 from inspection equipment are directly and automatically reported to secured and
 standardized electronic sheets. Second, those bar-coded electronic sheets, issued from
 the various inspection centers, are electronically communicated directly to the Ministry
 of Transport. The reforms have enabled the Ministry to properly monitor vehicle
 roadworthiness and pollutant emissions. At the time of project closing in 2011,
 automated electronic reporting was conducted for 1,606, 013 vehicle inspection visits,
 which was slightly less than the 1,700,000 target. To date, the updated vehicle inspection
 system has been functioning well in conjunction with three certified operators (Dekra,
 SGS, and Salama). The IEG mission obtained the latest available data, which indicate
 that 2,178,089 vehicle inspections were made in 2014, representing a considerable
 increase of 140 percent from 906,079 inspections in 2006, as shown in table 4.4. The
 number of inspection stations also grew significantly, increasing by 58 percent in the 8
 years between 2006 and 2014, with most of the additions occurring after the UT DPL. It
 should be noted that although the transport sector in Morocco is a significant contributor
 to national carbon emissions, other sources of air pollution overshadow the transport
 sector, such as thermal power plants, refineries, and the industrial sector as a whole
 (CEDARE 2015, page 7).

Table 6. Number of Vehicle Inspections and Inspection Centers
                                           2006 2010 2014      Increase 2006–14(%)
 Number of vehicle Inspections (thousands) 906.1 168.7 2,178.1          140
 Number of inspection centers               184   210    290             58
Source: “Transport Routier en Chiffres” posted in the website of the Ministère de l’Équipment, du Transport et de la
Logistique: http://www.equipement.gov.ma/Pages/accueil.aspx.


       Measures to improve air quality were also taken to complement the actions
 related to vehicle inspection centers. Euro 4 norms have been adopted for all imported
 vehicles and would be adopted progressively for all vehicles produced or assembled in
 Morocco Moreover, all imported vehicles have to be less than five years old. The
 Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment has also been preparing tighter
 emission thresholds. The UT DPL preparation team estimated reductions in greenhouse
 gas (GHG) emissions of about 350,000 tons/year from the implementation of the vehicle
 inspection centers. The restructuring of bus operations in Rabat and Casablanca would
                                            25


add to GHG emissions reductions by about 50,000 tons/year. The rollout of Euro 4
norms and tighter vehicle emissions thresholds would likely result in further reductions.
Taking into account the positive results from automated vehicle reporting and the GHG
emissions reductions stemming from measures to improve air quality, Prior Action 9’s
target outcome of establishing vehicle inspection and monitoring systems was
sustainably achieved.
Outcome 10: Mainstream accessibility for persons with limited mobility in urban
transport projects and increase awareness of accessibility issues.

       An accessibility plan for persons with limited mobility (PLM) has been
adopted, with support from several ministries as well as the railway and bus
operators. In consultation with concerned ministries, the Ministry of Social
Development, Family, and Solidarity held a national seminar to raise awareness and
disseminate the action plan for improving access to UT facilities by persons with limited
mobility. The Ministry subsequently adopted the plan, and the government approved an
execution decree of law 10-03 on accessibility. The Ministry of Housing studied the
accessibility requirements that need to be included in the new construction code. The
Ministry of Interior has called for greater inclusion of accessibility criteria in UT master
plans; moreover, the Ministry of Transport has developed a detailed action plan for all
agencies and departments it oversees. The railway company has also included
accessibility in its station upgrading plans and bus operators report increasing awareness
of the needs of PLM.

       Three cities have included an accessibility component in their rehabilitation
or improvement UT investment projects, exceeding the original target of two.
Selected cities are also attempting to improve the accessibility of sidewalks and
pedestrian environment. Marrakech has a US$2.85 million pilot accessibility project
underway financed by a grant from the government of Japan for infrastructure upgrading
work to improve the accessibility of selected infrastructure in the city (World Bank
2012a). The components and performance indicators for this grant are shown in table
4.5. Other cities such as Rabat and Oujda have also started undertaking accessibility
infrastructure-upgrading work. There is a positive dynamic and a raised awareness on
PLM issues at both the national and at local levels, which have translated into concrete
measures to improve accessibility. Thus, Prior Action 10’s targeted outcome—to
increase awareness of accessibility issues and mainstream accessibility for persons with
limited mobility in UT projects—has been achieved with likely sustainability.

      Based on the Full Achievement of the specific indicators and outcomes supported
by Prior Actions 9 and 10, the achievement of Objective 3 is rated substantial.
                                                      26


Table 7. Japan PHRD Grant: Project to Improve Accessibility of People with
Limited Mobility
 Objective      Promote the physical accessibility for persons with limited mobility (PLM) by demonstrating
                its feasibility through a pilot project in Marrakech.
 Components 1. Inventory of upgrade needs to improve accessibility of PLM in Rabat, Casablanca, Oujda, and
                Tetouan
                2. Review of construction codes, technical specifications, and procurement documents to add
                accessibility features
                3. Study to recommend for inclusion of accessibility requirements in public transport vehicles
                5. Training modules for local and municipal engineers on accessibility for PLM, and for
                nongovernmental organizations to strengthen their advocacy on accessibility
                6. Civil works to upgrade pedestrian space on major boulevards and in municipality and wilaya
                buildings to improve accessibility to PLM
                7. Monitoring and evaluation reports
 Performance 1. At least 3 cities have included accessibility for PLM in urban transport projects
 indicators     2. At least 4 cities have finalized inventories of accessibility improvements
                3. At least 5 kilometers of boulevards have been built or upgraded in Marrakech to become
                accessible to PLMs
                4. At least 5 public spaces have been upgraded in Marrakech to become accessible to PLM
Source: Japan PHRD Grant Agreement (see footnote 22).


5. Ratings
         The relevance of the UT DPL’s objectives is high. As part of project
 preparation and appraisal, the Bank conducted significant sector analysis and provided
 advice, which had the result—sustained until the present—of raising the visibility and
 highlighting the need to address long-standing urban transport issues in Morocco. The
 three priority areas of policy reform and the 10 linked Prior Actions were identified and
 targeted accurately and were closely aligned with (i) the Bank’s Country Partnership
 Strategies—at the time of appraisal (FYs2010–13) and at present (FYs2014–17)—and
 (ii) the government’s main priorities for the urban transport sector—as enunciated in its
 Letter of Development Policy, which was updated and reiterated in support of the
 Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program approved in December 2015. More
 specifically, the latter would support the Pillar on Citizens’ Access to Economic
 Opportunities and Social Services, within the government’s program, by improving
 public transit services for citizens in urban areas.

        The relevance of the UT DPL’s design is modest. In addition to diagnostic
 reports since 2006 and a major sector study in 2008, the available evidence shows that
 the project’s design benefitted from a sustained participatory process required of DPLs,
 including several high-level seminars and workshops involving diverse stakeholders.
 Bilateral donors were also consulted and involved. As indicated in a recent IEG
 Learning Product: “The quality of Prior Actions is critical for the robustness of the
 results frameworks for development policy operations.” (IEG 2015) The DPL’s choice
 of Prior Actions was of good quality and were directly and causally linked to their
 targeted outcomes. The DPL also focused on realistic and implementable Prior Actions,
 while the more difficult reforms related to sector financial sustainability were deferred to
 a proposed UT DPL2, which was not pursued because a Program-for-Results Urban
 Transport Program was selected instead. However, using only a one-year DPL (which
 had a five-month implementation period) without accompanying investment and
 technical assistance interventions detracted from achieving the project’s objectives,
                                           27


particularly the second one on increasing the efficiency and supply of urban transport
services and infrastructure. While acknowledging that the choice of lending instrument
is a function of Borrower preference as well as the balance in country programming, this
design flaw had the end result of focusing the Bank’s support on short-term policy
reforms and institutional strengthening at the level of central agencies, even though the
responsibility for urban transport is vested at the municipal and local levels, which also
have the greatest needs for supply expansion and efficiency improvements that are
achievable over a longer time horizon.

       The UT DPL’s overall outcome is moderately satisfactory. This rating is based
on the project’s substantial relevance and modest design, and a mix of partial or full
achievement of the outcomes that the 10 Prior Actions targeted under the project’s three
specific objectives, as shown in table 4.1. The outcome achievements related to
Objectives 1 and 3 were substantial, but outcomes for Objective 2 were achieved only
to a modest extent, mainly due to the lack of progress in addressing the operational
inefficiencies and financial unsustainability of bus services in Casablanca and Rabat-
Salé-Témara.

        Overall, the evidence indicates that the DPL supported client-driven reforms, not
ones prescribed by the Bank that was characterized by a shift in approach toward greater
consultation and participation by the main stakeholders. The project’s main
achievements were to accelerate and coalesce support for actions that the government
had already set in motion, which were to (i) strengthen its central and local capacities;
(ii) provide financing and technical assistance for the preparation of Urban Mobility
Master Plans; (iii) provide investment financing through the Urban Transport Fund,
subject to meeting social and economic criteria to qualify for support; (iv) establish
efficiency criteria for procuring UT services and allocating state support for investment
projects; (v) maintain the growth in vehicle inspection centers and monitoring systems;
and (vi ) mainstream accessibility for women and PLM. However, many areas of
improvement still remain, particularly in terms of increasing the quality and quantity of
public urban transport, and measurably improving sector efficiency and financial
sustainability.

      The project’s overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome
      The project’s results that have been fully achieved are likely to be
sustainable. DDUT has increasingly assumed the coordinating role to tackle urban
transport issues with increasing effectiveness, at the national level and with local
governments, as well as a monitoring role to be supported under the new, Bank-financed
Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program. The governments at all levels were
taking actions to strengthen central and local capacity; however, interministerial
cooperation remains difficult and is not yet fully institutionalized. The preparation of
Urban Mobility Master Plans is continuing, the growth in vehicle inspection centers is
maintained and the accessibility for women and persons with limited mobility is being
mainstreamed.
                                           28


       The main risk is in the area of financial sustainability. Local governments
have a limited capacity to cofinance planned mass transit systems and to cover the
expected operation and maintenance deficits. The fares on mass transit systems are
generally set at levels below those required to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Private sector participation in the financing and operations of public transport remains
elusive. Bus service contracts are currently net cost contracts that shift all commercial
risks to operators. The failure of Stareo in Rabat resulted in part from these contract
conditions. However, efforts are being made to shift to gross cost contracts. Also, while
the model failed in Rabat, private sector bus concessions have been relatively successful
for a longer time in other cities in Morocco, notably in Marrakesh and Tangier.

       The risks to development outcome are rated moderate.

Bank Performance
Quality at Entry

       The Bank has played a high-value role in helping to formulate a strategy and
to improve the policy framework for the urban transport sector in Morocco. The
Bank was in a good position to accompany the government in its sector reform program
given its significant involvement in Morocco’s UT sector. The UT DPL was based on
the Bank’s prior analytical work and it evolved from widespread and highly
participatory consultations, which contributed to a good understanding of the challenges
facing the sector in Morocco. This analytical work and advice included a number of
sector notes, thematic diagnostic reports, reviews that ranged from UT financing
systems to investment options for Casablanca, and a major strategy note on Morocco’s
urban transport in 2008 (World Bank, 2008a). This last report was still being
complimented and used as a reference by government interviewees during the IEG
mission, reflecting a strong and sustained buy-in to the UT dialogue with the Bank. In
addition to several workshops and high-level seminars, technical visits were also made
in Tunisia (2007), France (2008), and Brazil (2008). Thus, the government’s request in
2010 for an urban transport DPL to support it in the implementation of the sector
strategy was regarded as an extension of the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank
had been playing in the sector for several years. At the design stage, the Bank team
closely aligned the DPL’s reform areas with the government’s strategy and priorities for
the UT sector, focusing on the relatively more mature policies and Prior Actions that
already had a realistic base for launching. The Bank team’s role in interagency dialogue
and the transfer of international experience was also evident from the project records.

       The selection of the UT DPL’s objectives, Prior Actions, and expected
outcomes, was based on a thorough analysis of the macroeconomic context and
priority sector reforms. The preparation and appraisal of the UT DPL, and the
associated Program Document, were fully consistent with the lending criterion for DPLs
stipulated by the Bank’s relevant Operational Policy: “The Bank undertakes
development policy lending…only when it has determined that the country’s
macroeconomic policy framework is adequate… The Bank considers the strength of the
country’s policy and institutional framework…its track record…and how gaps will be
addressed” (World Bank 2008b). The Program Document (World Bank 2011) reviewed
                                           29


the macroeconomic achievements during the previous decade, focusing on the effects of
the government’s fiscal stimulus package following the economic slowdown that started
in 2008, evidence of recovery, positive data on budget execution and fiscal management,
appropriateness of macroeconomic policies, growth and debt sustainability prospects,
and overall macroeconomic outlook. Moreover, the selection of the three Strategic
Policy Reform Areas that constituted the DPL’s specific objectives, the choice of Prior
Actions, and the delineation of expected outcomes were also in line with the Bank’s
DPL lending policy that “Specific results are expected from the resource transfers” for
which there should be “measurable indicators for monitoring progress.”

       A design weakness, however, is the short duration and limitations of the DPL
lending instrument compared to the scale and complexity of delivering physical
infrastructure needs. The DPL on its own was not sufficient for helping to achieve the
higher-level goal of improving sector efficiency over the long term. It was also
inadequate for achieving within an immediate time frame the DPL’s second objective of
increasing the efficiency and supply of urban transport services and infrastructure. This
suggests that the DPL should have been accompanied by an Investment Project
Financing (IPF) project and possibly a technical assistance intervention as well. In the
Moroccan country program context, however, a DPL was reported to have been the
government’s own choice over an IPF, mainly for budget infusion reasons. Moreover,
interviewees have also argued that focusing on priority reforms to “reset” the sector’s
policies (starting from weak or zero baselines) seemed justified because the actions
related to strategy formulation, planning, coordination, least-cost procurement, and
optimization through eligibility criteria to qualify for state financing were designed to
lay the groundwork for future investments. The end result, however, is that in the
absence of an IPF, the bus fleet renewal and network expansion under the DPL have
been quickly overtaken and rendered marginal by the rapid growth in UT demand and
continuous deterioration of the existing fleet.

       The Bank’s quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

Quality of Supervision

      The Bank task team closely and thoroughly supervised the project’s
implementation. Although the project was just a single-tranche DPL that effectively
allowed a short supervision time of about five months, two missions were carried out
during that period, for which detailed supervision reports and aide-mémoires were
produced. The supervision activities included a detailed follow-up on the progress of the
various actions that were to be implemented by all the agencies involved, with each
agency responsible for the collection of performance data on its respective
commitments. The findings were discussed with the government and corrective
measures were taken when needed. The government counterparts confirmed that the
Bank team’s detailed supervision helped to build a strong relationship between the
government stakeholders and the Bank.

     The Bank’s supervision is rated satisfactory. With Bank Quality at Entry rated
moderately satisfactory, the overall Bank Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
                                           30


Borrower Performance
Government Performance

       The government was strongly committed to the UT DPL’s objectives
throughout project preparation, appraisal, and implementation. The
implementation of policy reforms under the project required that the Prior Actions be
executed by multiple ministries, primarily the Ministries of the Interior, Transport, and
Social Development. In addition to local authorities in the major agglomerations, several
concerned Ministries were also substantially consulted during the program preparation
and implementation, including the Ministries of Finance, General Affairs, Housing,
andEnergy and Environment. The relevant departments collected performance data,
which were transmitted to the Bank and discussed during supervision missions. Records
indicate that substantial efforts were undertaken by all institutions involved in the
program to implement agreed actions and follow up on shortcomings in implementation.
Based on the IEG’s mission’s interviews and document reviews, it is evident that the
government is pursuing the DPL’s objectives much more intensively four years after it
has closed, mainly through its sustained strategic focus and continuing actions.

      Government Performance is rated satisfactory.

Implementing Agency Performance

       Implementation performance within the Ministry of the Interior was strong,
but inter-ministerial coordination was only partially achieved. The MOI was the
designated implementing agency for the UT DPL because urban transport falls under its
responsibilities. The MOI effectively coordinated the actions agreed under the program
and facilitated the dialogue with several agencies, notably at the level of municipal
authorities. The MOI itself was responsible for directly implementing several Prior
Actions, including those that were critical to reforming the governance of the UT sector,
notably its governance. While generally successful, however, the MOI only partially
achieved the goal of inter-ministerial coordination during the project preparation and
implementation, thus requiring the Bank team to follow up directly with other relevant
ministries individually. There were also some delays in issuing the Circular to officially
establish the CNDU (National Commission for Urban Transport), which included
representatives from concerned ministries, and calling for its first meeting. As a
technical forum for information exchange, the CNDU’s lack of a legitimizing authority
eventually led to its demise. DDUT, which originally served as CNDU’s Secretariat,
assumed the day-to-day responsibility for coordination, implementation, and follow-up
for the DPL and the UT sector in general.

      Implementing agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory. With
government performance rated satisfactory, overall Borrower Performance is rated
moderately satisfactory.
                                           31


Monitoring and Evaluation
       Design. The project’s M&E was integrated in the Program Document’s Operation
Policy Matrix (appendix B). The outcome indicators associated with Prior Actions were
specific, relevant, and measurable. The indicators were selected in consultation with the
MOI and reflected a good balance between quantitative and qualitative measurements.

      Implementation. Each department in the relevant ministries collected the data to
meet the project’s M&E requirements and feed the information to the Bank’s
supervision missions, which closely monitored the DPL’s execution. The Bank’s
missions prepared detailed aide-mémoires highlighting progress on each action and
allowing for the coordination of the DPO. Data collection methods and data quality were
deemed to be appropriate by the ICR team.

       Utilization. Given the CNDU’s inability to fully operate, the Bank missions
helped as a conduit for providing the concerned ministries with information on the
progress in meeting the project’s objectives. The Bank’s involvement served to provide
those agencies with data and independent international expert opinion that informed
their decision making and resource allocation.

      Monitoring and evaluation is rated substantial.

6. Lessons
        The UT DPL served as a “déclencheur”—a “triggering” operation that helped to
accelerate much-needed policy reforms, support institutional strengthening priorities
within major sector agencies, and implement key measures to unblock the main
impediments to improved sector performance. It included selected priority actions that
needed to be taken in the short term, within the framework of client-driven reforms, and
against a historical baseline in which little or no effort was being made to address
mounting UT sector issues. Based on the project’s own experience, this section presents
the main lessons on the roles of the government, the Bank, and the lending instrument
itself, which may be relevant in designing future development policy lending (DPL)
interventions:

     For DPLs to achieve results, the broad and early participation of the various
      implementing agencies and local governments as well as a strong reform
      momentum by the government, must be in place at entry. Credible
      government actions to accelerate the implementation of policy reforms are
      necessary prior to Board approval. There also needs to be evidence of broad
      participation by multiple implementing agencies and local governments, starting
      as early as the preparation of the sector and other technical studies that would
      underpin the design of the DPL. The Bank’s dialogue with the main “champions”
      within government needs to be broadened early to achieve buy-in and engagement
      beyond the central counterparts, particularly in urban transport where the
      executive responsibilities lie with cities. The degree of cooperation achieved
      among the multiple implementing agencies and through the local authorities was
                                         32


    due in large part to the credible process of consultation and stakeholder
    participation during the UT DPL’s preparation and implementation.

   Flexible and adaptive responses by the government are required to continue
    pursuing the DPL’s objectives when specific actions do not achieve expected
    results. For example, the CNDU and the AODU lacked the convening power and
    legitimizing authority expected when they were created by the central government
    and the local authorities of Greater Casablanca, respectively. In response, the
    government strengthened and empowered DDUT (under the DGCL of the
    MOI)—originally the technical Secretariat of CNDU—to assume many of the
    responsibilities of the CNDU itself, which ceased to function. Similarly, when
    AODU proved unable to assume its assigned roles despite large budgetary
    outlays, the Greater Casablanca authorities abolished the AODU (in March 2015)
    and transferred its planning, investment, and management roles to Casa
    Transports.

   The Bank’s convening authority and intellectual leadership need to support
    the government’s work on consensus building and interagency
    coordination—especially at the initial stages of DPLs. During the critical
    process of selecting and justifying key reform actions, the Bank needs to ensure
    that the government is building consensus among multiple stakeholders at the
    national and local levels that may be at widely different stages of readiness (in
    terms of institutional capacity) and willingness to implement reforms (given the
    local political economy and its system of incentives). The effectiveness of the
    Bank’s “convening power” is best served by providing intellectual leadership
    through evidence-based sector analysis, a strategic dialogue, and a defensible
    menu of priority actions. Some respondents during the IEG mission have
    expressed concerns that the Bank’s high-value analytical and advisory assistance
    may be eroding in favor of operationally oriented project preparation work.

   The Bank has an important role to play in ensuring that all investment
    options are analyzed, with a view to selecting the least-cost options. As part of
    its due diligence, the Bank needs to ensure, especially in broad-ranging sector
    DPLs, that all investment options are appropriately assessed within a sector
    planning framework, with a view to identifying and selecting the least-cost
    options. The government has put in place eligibility criteria to incentivize
    municipal investments and allocate government financial support to those with
    highest returns. Such prioritization and efficient resource allocation criteria should
    be applied in comparing tramway expansion with bus rapid transit and other
    options, in light of overall urban transport needs. For example, as discussed in
    paragraphs 4.23 and box 4.2 of this report, it would be important to analyze
    whether spending 40 percent of all urban transport investments on expansion of
    tram lines would be worthwhile, considering the large number of other road,
    traffic, and bus-related investment needs in Morocco’s other cities.

   Sector DPLs could be more effective if accompanied by parallel investment
    lending and technical assistance, or designed as a programmatic series that would
                                    33


expand the implementation time frame to several years. The urban transport sector
is inherently very complex, straddling land use, environmental, and social issues,
as well as national and local jurisdictions. Reforms can be fully achieved only
over the long term, thus requiring step-by-step approaches and a rigorous
prioritization of short-term actions that could most effectively lay the groundwork
for future reforms. In this context, a short-duration DPL cannot be expected to
directly impact decision making at the local level, which depends on political and
other factors that are beyond the influence and implementation time frame of
DPLs. Capacity building at the local levels can be more readily achieved by
investment lending and technical assistance support. Their absence would explain
why the UT DPL’s second objective—to increase the efficiency and supply of
urban transport services and infrastructure—was achieved only to a modest
extent.
                                                   34


7. References
Autorité Organisatrice des Déplacements Urbains (AODU). 2014. “Situation de la Mobilité à Casablanca.”
         Casablanca, Morocco: AODU.
         file:///C:/Users/wb299657/Downloads/Situation%20de%20la%20mobilit%C3%A9%20%C3%A0
         %20Casablanca.%20Septembre%202014.pdf.
Casa Transports SA. 2015. Acteur de Gestion de la Mobilité pour la Ville de Casablanca. Casablanca,
        Morocco.
CEDARE (Center for Environment and Development for the Arab Region and Europe). 2015. “Fuel
     Economy and CO2 Emissions of Light-Duty Vehicles in Morocco.”
     http://www.unep.org/Transport/new/pcfv/pdf/GFEI_Morocco_Report_English.pdf.
Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). 2015. “Le Réseautage entre Villes comme
        Catalyseur du Développement Urbain.”
———. 2014a. “Les services du transport Public Urbain: Benchmarking des agglomerations marocaines.”
———. 2014b. “Réseau Marocain de Transport Public.”
IEG (Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank). 2012. “Implementation Completion and Results Report
        (ICR): Urban Transport Development Policy Loan. Report ICR2187.” World Bank, Washington,
        DC.
———. 2013. “ICR Review: Urban Transport DPL.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2015. “The Quality of Results Frameworks in Development Policy Lending (IEG Learning
Ministère de l’Équipment, du Transport et de la Logistique. 2015. “Project de Performance: Loi de
        Finance.”
———. “Transport Routier en Chiffres.” http://www.equipement.gov.ma/Pages/accueil.aspx.
MOTRA. 2014. “Analyser L’Offre et la Demande de Transport Dans L’Agglomération du Grand Casablanca-
     Maroc.” March 24.
World Bank. 2008a. “Royaume du Maroc: Agglomération de Casablanca: Analyse comparative des options
       BRT et tramway pour le futur système de transport de masse, Bureau regional Moyen-Orient et
       Afrique du Nord, Groupe Transport et Urbanisme.”
———. 2008b. “Royaume du Maroc: Secteur des Déplacements Urbains, Note de Strategie Sectorielle.”
     Bureau regional Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord, Groupe Transport et Urbanisme.
———. 2011. “Program Document: Urban Transport Development Policy Loan.” Report No. 58010-MA,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2012a. “Kingdom of Morocco: Japan PHRD TA Grant to Support Disability and Development (TF
     No. TF010735) Improving the Physical Accessibility of People with Limited Mobility Project).”
     Official document from Simon Gray to H.E. Nizar Baraka, February 23, 2012. http://www-
     wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/MNA/2013/02/05/090224b0818f
     68c2/1_0/Rendered/PDF/Official00Docu00PHRD0Grant0TF010735.pdf.
———. 2012b. “OP8.60-Development Policy Lending.” February. World Bank, Washington, DC.


———. 2015. “Project Appraisal Document: Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program.” Report No.
     101010-MA. World Bank, Washington, DC.
                                        35


Appendix A: Basic Data Sheet
URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN (IBRD-80200)

Key Project Data (US$ million)
                                     Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
                                     estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                   136.7               136.7                  100
Loan amount                            136.7              136.7                  100
Cofinancing                             —                  —                     —

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements, FY 2011
                                                                                FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)                                                136.7
Actual (US$ million)                                                            136.7
Actual as % of appraisal                                                         100


Project Dates
                                           Original                         Actual
Concept review                            09/02/2009                      09/02/2009
Appraisal                                 12/13/2010                      12/13/2010
Board approval                            03/15/2011                      03/15/2011
Effectiveness                                    —                        08/18/2011
Closing date                              12/31/2011                      12/31/2011


Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only, US$ thousand)
                                                           FY10                 FY11
                                                      (including travel    (including travel
                                                       and consultant       and consultant
                                                           costs)               costs)
Lending                                                   423,000                 —
Supervision                                                  —                 141,000

— = not available.
                                             36


 Appendix B: Operational Policy Matrix
 Strategic policy          10 Key Prior Actions for             Expected results and indicators
 areas and                 Development Policy Loan                 (by December 31, 2011)
 main program
 objectives
A. Improve the governance of the urban transport sector
Establishment         1. The Casablanca urban               Efficient planning, coordination, and
of an                 transport planning and                management of the urban transport
appropriate           management agency has become          sector in the Casablanca agglomeration
institutional         fully operational through
framework in each     (i) the adoption of a priority work   Indicator: A clear plan is shared by all
large                 plan and an adequate budget by        stakeholders for the restructuring of the
Moroccan              its Board of Directors,               bus route network of the agglomeration
agglomeration         (ii) the recruitment of technical     and this plan is well coordinated with
                      experts, and                          the development of all other modes of
                      (iii) the launching of
                                                            transport.
                      comprehensive studies of bus
                      network restructuring and traffic     Baseline: no plan
                      management.                           Target: substantial completion

Establishment of       2. The Minister of Interior has      Effective coordination of policies and
an appropriate         issued a Circular                    programs among the main government
national               (Circulaire) dated October 14,       departments involved in the urban
institutional          2010, establishing the               transport sector
framework to           National Commission on Urban
initiate and           Transport (CNDU).                    Indicator: The CNDU meets at least
coordinate                                                  twice a year to coordinate, monitor, and
government                                                  evaluate government actions in the urban
actions in the                                              transport sector.
urban transport                                             Baseline: none
sector                                                      Target: two

                       3. The Urban Transport Division      Effective central government support
                       of the General Directorate of        provided to local authorities on urban
                       Local Governments of the             transport issues
                       Ministry of Interior has become
                       fully operational through             Indicator: Conventions have been
                       (i) the adoption of a priority       signed by the Ministry of Interior and
                       work plan by the Director of         local governments to assist them—
                       Programming and Equipment of         including with funding—for the
                       such Directorate and                 preparation of municipal urban strategies
                       (ii) the recruitment of technical    and priority investment plans.
                       experts.                             Baseline: none
                                                            Target: three large cities
 APPENDIX B                                37


Widespread and         4. The Ministry of Interior has   Sufficient urban transport expertise is
multilevel             carried out a training            available in the cities that have carried out
development of         program for a core group          or launched the preparation of their urban
national expertise     of managers in the urban          transport strategies and priority investment
in the urban           transport sector.                 plans.
transport sector
                                                         Indicator: Number of trained experts and
                                                         number of cities that benefited from the
                                                         training program
                                                         Baseline: None
                                                         Target: 32 experts and 9 cities

B. Improve the efficiency and increasing the supply of urban transport services and infrastructure
Restructuring of        5. The contract between the       Improved quality and quantity of bus
bus services and        concerned municipalities of the   services in the agglomerations of Rabat-
operators’              agglomeration of Rabat-Sale-      Sale-Temara and Casablanca
contracts               Temara and the new operator of
                        bus services, Stareo, has become Indicators:
                        effective on October 29, 2009.    Number of passenger seat-km supplied by
                                                          Stareo and M’dina Bus
                        6. The following measures have
                        been taken for restructuring the  Baseline: Rabat-Sale-Temara : 0;
                        provision of bus services in the  Casablanca: 1.9 billion
                        agglomeration of Casablanca:
                        (i) signature of a convention     Target: Rabat-Sale-Temara: 2.0 billion;
                        between the municipality of       Casablanca: 2.6 billion
                        Casablanca and the new operator
                        of bus services, M’dina Bus, for
                        the provision of a 200 million
                        Dirham subsidy for the purchase
                        of new buses and the
                        implementation of a staff
                        reduction plan;
                        (ii) approval of a change in the
                        capital structure of M’dina Bus;
                        (iii) approval of an investment
                        convention between the state and
                        M’dina Bus; and
                        (iv) issuance to the previous bus
                        operators of a notice that their
                        contracts were terminated.
                                               38                                 APPENDIX B

Improvement of the     7. The Minister of Interior has          The procurement process for
regulatory and         issued an order (Arrêté) dated           concessioning public transport services
institutional          August 25 , 2010, setting forth the      is in line with international best
framework for          selection process for public services    practice.
public-private         concessionaires in accordance with
partnerships           Law 54.05, dated February 16,            Indicator: The selection of future
                       2006, and the main stipulations of       public transport operators in large cities
                       the concession contracts.                is fully competitive and transparent.
                                                                Baseline: Not Applicable
                                                                Target: All

Funding of urban       8. The Minister of Interior has          Government financial support is
transport services     issued a Circular (Circulaire) dated     allocated to those urban transport
and infrastructure     November 4, 2010, defining the           investment projects with superior
                       eligibility criteria for state funding   economic and social returns.
                       of urban transport investment
                       projects.                                Indicator: Percentage of the number of
                                                                projects accepted for state funding that
                                                                comply with the adopted eligibility
                                                                criteria
                                                                Baseline: 0
                                                                Target: 75 percent

C. Improve the environmental and social sustainability of urban transport
Improving air quality 9. The Ministry of Equipment and          Effective vehicle inspection and
in large              Transport has completed the               monitoring systems are in place.
agglomerations        restructuring of the vehicle
                      inspection centers through the            Indicator: number of visits for vehicle
                      following measures:                       inspection, the report of which has been
                      (i) signature of a contract with a        issued through the automated electronic
                      third national operator providing         process
                      support to the existing inspection        Baseline: 1,100,000
                      centers,                                  Target: 1,700,000
                      (ii) establishment of an automated
                      electronic process for preparing the
                      vehicle technical inspection reports,
                      and
                      (iii) award of a contract to a firm
                      for auditing the vehicle inspection
                      centers.
 APPENDIX B                                39


Improving              10. The Ministry of Social      Accessibility for persons with limited
accessibility for      Development, Family, and        mobility has been mainstreamed in urban
persons with limited   Solidarity, in consultation     transport projects and awareness has
mobility               with relevant ministries, has   increased.
                       adopted an action plan to
                       improve the accessibility to    Indicator: number of cities that have
                       urban transport of persons      included an accessibility component in
                       with limited mobility, and      their rehabilitation or improvement urban
                       organized a national seminar    transport infrastructure projects
                       to raise awareness and          Baseline: 0
                       disseminate the action plan.    Target: 2
                                              40                              APPENDIX C


Appendix C: List of Persons Met
Washington, DC

World Bank
       Jean-Charles Crochet (retired), Task Team Leader, Urban Transport DPL
       Vikram Cuttaree, Task Team Leader, Program-for-Results Urban Transport Program


Rabat

Government of Morocco
      Adelkrim El Amrani, Chargé de Mission auprès du Chef du Gouvernement,
              Ministère des Affaires Générales et de la Gouvernance
      Asmae Ibnattya Andaloussi, Chargée de Mission auprès du Chef du Gouvernement,
              Ministère des Affaires Générales et de la Gouvernance
      Mohamed N’gadi, Chef de la Division des Déplacements Urbains et des Transport,
              Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales, Ministère de l’Interieur
      Samir Tazi, Directeur de la Privatization et des Entreprises Publiques,
              Ministère de l’Économie et des Finances
      Azeddine Lakbakbi El Yaagoubi, Chef de Service de la Banque Mondiale, Direction du
      Budget,
              Ministère de l’Économie et des Finances

World Bank
       Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly, Country Director
       Nabil Samir, Transport Specialist

Agence Française de Développement (AFD)
       Anne Isambert, Chargée de Mission

Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GMbH (GIZ)
       Soukaina Eit El Quadi, Conseillère Technique Jr, Programme CoMun


Casablanca

Casa Transports
       Youssef Draiss, Directeur Général
       Aziz Berrahou, Directeur des Etudes et du Développement

M’Dina Bus
      Othmane Benani Dakhama, Directeur des Opérations et Suivi Budgétaire
        Mehdi Safouane, Directeir d’Exploitation des Etudes et du Développement
                                         41   APPENDIX D


Appendix D: Borrower Comments

The Borrower did not provide comments.
