Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11904
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
MAY 24,1993
Industry & Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Million Zambia Kwacha (ZKW) - $170,000 US$ (January 1986, Appraisal)
1 Million Zambia Kwacha (ZKW) - $ 17,000 US$ (May 1991, Project Closure)
1 Million Zambia Kwacha (ZKW) - $ 7,000 US$ (April 1992)
ABBREVIATIONS
KfW   -     Kredinstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MT    -     Metric Tons
NCZ   -     Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia Limited
OECF  -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OMF   -     Operations Management Firm
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
ZCF   -     Zambia Cooperative Federation
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January to December
NCZ - April to March



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatlons Evaluation
May 24, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESTDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Zambia
Fertilizer Industry Restructurine Project (Credit 1662-ZA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Zambia - Fertilizer
Industry Restructuring Project (Credit 1662-ZA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The objective of the project was to restore the technical integrity and the financial viability of
Nitrogen Chernicals of Zambia (NCZ). This objective was not achieved. The scale of the effort required
was underestimated. At completion, the plants were still not operating properly and the company was
incurring heavy losses. The Bank contribution to the project was to finance technical assistance, training
and rehabilitation of some plant facilities. Training, management and environmental/safety aspects were
enhanced as a result of the project. However, the overall performance of the consultants hired to carry
out this component was well below expectation. Two bilateral donor agencies also participated in the
project, OECF from Japan and KfW from Germany. The scope of the works changed significantly when
delays in the KfW financed component led to further deterioration of the plant. Since then, rehabilitation
has been running behind requirements.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory and its sustainability as uncertain.
Although some data are missing, the PCR provides a frank and informative account of project
outcomes. An audit is underway.
Attachment
This docurnent has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
Evaluation Summary ........... . .                                                    iii
PART I.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .1
A.   Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.    Background ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .            1
C.    Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . .                      2
D.    Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . .                     2
E.    Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      3
F.    Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     5
G.    Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
H.    Bank Performance ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....     7
I.    Borrower Performance ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ....      8
J.    Bank/Borrower Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
K.    Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
L.    Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .                  11-24
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      25
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . .                    25
2.    Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   26
3.   Loan Disbursement   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   .       27
4.   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
5.    Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   31
6.    Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   33
7.   Status of Covenants   ....  .             . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
8.   Use of Bank Resources   ....  .           .  .  .  .    ... ...   .        38
Staff Input . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    38
Mission ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... . .   .    39
ANNEX 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Fertilizer Industry
Restructuring Project in Zambia.
The Bank's financing consisted of a credit (Credit No. 1662-ZA)
denominated in SDRs and equivalent at the time to US$10 million which was
signed on April 9, 1986 and became effective on September 25, 1986. The
credit closing date, originally December 31, 1990, was extended subsequently
to December 31, 1991. The accounts were closed with the credit being fully
disbursed on May 10, 1991.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Industry and Energy Division
of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regions shared services and the
Industry and Energy Division of the Southern Africa Department, Africa Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III and by the Borrower (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in August 1991 and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report and Report and Recommendation of the President, the
Memorandum of Understanding and the Credit Agreements, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank, the co-financiers, the Borrower and the chief
beneficiary of the credit, internal Bank memoranda and data.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives.  The key objective of the project was to assist the
new Zambian development strategy introduced in 1983, whose most important
elements were: the transformation of the agricultural sector into the leading
source of economic growth; and the restructuring of the industrial sector to
increase efficiency and exports.
2.          The project was to restore the technical integrity and the
financial viability of Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia Ltd (NCZ) in order to
ensure timely delivery of fertilizer to Zambian farmers and explosives to the
mines at internationally competitive prices and at minimum foreign exchange
outflow.
3.          Implementation Experience.  At the request of the Zambian
Government, the Bank decided in January 1985 to participate in the project
with two bilateral donor agencies - OECF of Japan and KfW of Germany. The
latter would be responsible for the physical rehabilitation of the two main
production lines at a total estimated cost of about US$54 million. The Bank's
contribution to the project was to finance technical assistance, training of
NCZ's staff and rehabilitation of some off-battery facilities for a total
estimated cost of US$10 million.
4.          The Japanese rehabilitation component for the NCZ I production
line was completed in August 86, only one month behind schedule and within
budget. However, the German component was very delayed. The turnkey contract
for rehabilitation of the NCZ II production line only became effective in
early 87 - one year later than the appraisal estimates. The suspension of
disbursements to Zambia by the Bank in 87 and by RFW in 88 led to further
delays. As a result, the German contract was completed only at the end of 89.
5.          The implementation of the NCZ II plant rehabilitation was
disappointing. Performance of all consulting groups was below expectation.
The scope of works changed significantly when delays led to further deteriora-
tion of the plant. Plant rehabilitation could not be completed without
additional financing of an unknown magnitude. Due to the donors' reluctance
to close the large but undefined financing gap, the work was terminated when
the funds were used up. Efforts were made by NCZ to reduce the scope of works
and thereby the funds required to get the NCZ II plant "up and running". But
the rehabilitation remained incomplete right up to the Credit Closing in
December 1991.



- iv -
6.          As a result, NCZ fertilizer production has not even reached 50% of
the appraisal estimate. This has caused severe financial problems, which have
been exacerbated by unexpectedly high production costs, customers who have
defaulted on payments and the inability of the government to pay fertilizer
subsidies brought on by earlier price controls.
7.          Prolect Results.  The project did not meet its key objective of
increasing the domestic supply of fertilizer. Less than 20% of the country's
fertilizer needs are supplied from the high cost NCZ operation. The rest of
the supply is still imported in various forms from ammonia to finished
products. It is difficult to assess whether the ongoinR efforts to complete
the NCZ II plant and bring it on-stream will succeed.   Indications are the if
the fertilizer complex can operate at typical capacity, it will be financially
and economically viable - on the basis that the costs incurred at the date of
this report are treated as a sunk cost. It is therefore worthwhile for NCZ to
continue its efforts to complete the rehabilitation, provided that this can be
achieved at a reasonable cost.
8.          Proiect Sustainability.  The NCZ operation is not sustainable
until the plant rehabilitation is complete. Sustainability can only be
attained when sufficient operating profits are generated to pay for the
necessary investments in preventive maintenance, overhauls and replacements.
The following steps are needed: (1) Financially restructure NCZ to regain a
strong balance sheet. The main requirement will be for the present government
to fulfill the obligations of the previous government to pay off the
inordinately high accounts receivable; (2) complete the rehabilitation of NCZ
II; (3) elevate plant capacity utilization to the levels foreseen at
appraisal; (4) ensure availability of foreign exchange for plant operation and
maintenance and import of raw materials; and, (5) ensure a reliable supply of
good quality coal. With effort, these steps can be achieved.
9.          Findinxs and Lessons Learned.  Overall, the project failed to meet
its major objectives. It did little to establish a reliable and cost
effective supply of fertilizers to the Zambian farmers. The successful outcome
of the project pivoted around the total technical rehabilitation of the plant.
When this failed, the TA, training and other software inputs also lost most of
their impact.
10.         The two most important lessons learned are:  Firstly,
rehabilitation of technically complex installations requires large financing
contingencies, and one donor to be recognized as leader and to have the
authority and influence to achieve results. In this project, the Bank was a
minor lender and could not persuade the lead donor to see the project through
to completion. Secondly, putting price as a major factor in the evaluation of
consulting contracts leads the winning consultant to economize on the quality
of staff. In turn, this leads to performance not meeting expectations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identitv
Project Name   :  Fertilizer Industry Restructuring Project
Credit No.      :   1662-ZA
RVP Unit        :  Africa Regional Office
Country         :   Zambia
Sector          :  Industry
B.    Background
1.01        In 1983 the government asked the Bank to assist in the
rehabilitation of the fertilizer and explosives manufacturing plants located
in Kafue and owned and operated by the state company Nitrogen Chemicals of
Zambia Ltd (NCZ). The first plant (NCZ I), delivered and installed by a
Japanese contractor and financed by a bilateral loan from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, was commissioned in 1970. In order
to expand and diversify production capacity of NCZ to meet a larger part of
the country's fertilizer requirements, the construction of a second production
line (NCZ II) was started in 1975 with a consortium of West German and French
contractors responsible for the whole of the works except utilities and
infrastructures and financed by commercial loans. Following several delays
and cost overruns this plant went on stream in 1982.
1.02        In 1983 plant utilization was still below 35%.  NCZ faced
financial problems caused by the low capacity utilization, high production
costs due to inefficient operations, and a heavy debt burden resulting from
implementation of the NCZ II plant. Studies indicated economic merit in
undertaking the full rehabilitation of both plants, and both OECF and KfW
offered financial support. The government, therefore, changed its request and
asked the Bank to participate in the full rehabilitation of both plants
including training and measures to improve management, organization, operation
and maintenance of NCZ.
1.03        The proposed project would help meet the two important new
strategic goals. First, it would improve the supply of an essential input for
increasing crop production at prices comparable with imports. Therefore it
supported the transformation of agriculture into a leading agent of economic
growth, a development the Bank encouraged strongly. Second, it would
rehabilitate an important industrial enterprise within the framework of the
new industrial strategy, also strongly encouraged and supported by the Bank.



- 2-
C.    Prolect Obiectives and Description
1.04        Obiectives.  The main objective was to assist the government to
physically rehabilitate the NCZ facilities and improve its management and
corporate performance.
1.05        The specific objectives of the Credit were to assist in:
restructuring NCZ's management, organization, staffing and finances;
introducing modern management techniques for plant operation and maintenance;
upgrading the skills of the NCZ staff; ensuring an integrated and efficient
technical rehabilitation of NCZ's physical facilities; and, improving the raw
material acquisition and final product off-take logistics system.
1.06        Proiect Description.  The project consisted of two major
components, namely: Policy and Institutional Improvement Component consisting
of provision of operating management services, staff training, and technical
coordination services for the physical rehabilitation of the NCZ plant.
Physical Support and Financing consisting of technical rehabilitation of the
NCZ I and II plants, off-sites, infrastructure and environmental facilities.
1.07        Proiect Costs and Financing.  Project costs were estimated at US$
69.25 million, of which the IDA credit was to finance US$10 million.
(corresponding to about 12Z of the overall financing required), an OECF loan
US$26.28 million, a KFW loan US$27.2 million, and NCZ the remaining US$5.37
million.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
1.08        In retrospect it is evident that the design of the overall
package, and of the Bank-supported components, were inappropriate. The idea
was to integrate all project components into a single rehabilitation project
under the Bank's overall control and supervision. The Japanese and German
bilateral components were strictly kept within the battery limits of each
plant while the TA component financed by the Bank ensured their coordination.
Environmental and safety aspects were included in the TA component. Further,
the Bank supported the rehabilitation of utilities and off-sites not covered
by the two bilateral aid components.
1.09        A Bank financed operations management firm (OMF) was to restruc-
ture and streamline NCZ's organization and management and train its staff. The
credit and project agreements were designed to support and maintain the
desired changes and improvements in NCZ performance and to provide the Bank
with proper means for surveying the process.
1.10        NCZ had the primary responsibility for project management and
implementation. It entered into turnkey agreements with the same contractors
that originally had been responsible for plant design and installation - Kobe
Steel of Japan and Klockner of Germany. Each rehabilitation project was
monitored by a technical advisor appointed by the respective bilateral
financing agency. Overall technical coordination and supervision of the total
work, including improvement of the off-sites, utilities and environmental
systems was performed by a technical coordinator provided by the OMF. The OMF



was also responsible for plant operation and management, training of NCZ
staff, and development and introduction of new financial and management
information systems, and suitable procedures for production optimization and
cost control. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established by NCZ, its
parent - Zimco - and Ministry of Finance to facilitate processing of policy
and finance related measures.
1.11        All these arrangements should have ensured a major improvement of
the management and corporate performance of NCZ, and the successful completion
of the project. As explained below, things did not turn out as well as
expected and the project is still not complete.
E.    Prolect Implementation
1.12        Implementation of the project has not been satisfactory.  Only
part of the objectives were met and the hoped-for positive impact on
agriculture has been very limited. A general cause is that most of the
parties to the project under-estimated the scale of effort required. There
was also not a strong commitment to the project on the part of the government,
especially with regard to foreign exchange allocations and setting of NCZ ex
factory prices. The suspension of credit and aid disbursements to Zambia by
the main donor agencies contributed significantly to the poor project outcome.
1.13        Prolect Preparation and Credit Effectiveness.   The project was
identified in August 1983 but the Credit only became effective on September
1986. It took more than one year of concerted effort by Bank staff to reach a
first decision not to participate in the project. When this decision was sub-
sequently reversed as a result of reevaluation of project risks and viability,
it took another year for Board approval.
1.14        Strong measures had to be devised to reduce these risks to a
manageable level. The efforts centered on integrating the various components
into a single rehabilitation project, and persuading the government, Zimco and
NCZ to completely restructure the firm. These activities directly related to
NCZ were fairly successful albeit with some delay. But the efforts to
coordinate the Japanese and German inputs met with only limited success. In
spite of the Bank's recommendations that the NCZ I and NCZ II plants should
function in tandem to achieve maximum operational efficiency the Japanese and
West German companies proceeded with their technical design without mutual
consultation and coordination.
1.15        The only real results of the Bank's technical coordination effort
was the inclusion of a pollution reduction element in both projects. The bank
had been keen for the adoption of a set of performance guarantees in the
German contract, but these were negated when the plant was not completed.
The modest outcome was partly due to late intervention by the Bank and
reluctance by the bilateral agencies to support the modifications in the
contracts suggested by the Bank.
1.16        Implementation Schedule.  The physical rehabilitation component
was originally scheduled for completion in December 1987. The provision of
services by the OMF was to end in December 1989. With the delay of Credit



effectiveness to September 1986 things got out of sequence as the
rehabilitation of the NCZ I plant had already been completed by August 1986,
only one month behind schedule.
1.17        The scope of rehabilitation of the NCZ II plant proposed by the
German contractor was reviewed and updated by NCZ in February 1986 and the
turn-key contract was signed in June 1986. However, there were difficulties
in fulfilling cross effectiveness conditions between the WB Credit and the KFW
loan and the Klochner contract was delayed almost a year. Expected completion
was revised to March 1989 instead of December 1987 as originally anticipated.
The suspension of loan and credit disbursements to Zambia by the Bank in May
1987 and by KFW in March 1988 led to further delays in the NCZ II plant
rehabilitation.
1.18        To make things worse it had become evident that the stage of
deterioration of the NCZ II plant was much more advanced than anticipated.
Additional rehabilitation would be outside the Klockner contract. The
rehabilitation could not be completed within the rehabilitation budget and
would require major additional financing. The Klockner contract was
terminated uncompleted at the end of 1989.
1.19        No donor assistance could be found to complete the work due to
lack of confidence in NCZ's capability to ensure project viability, and
continued problems with aid disbursements to Zambia. Continued rehabilitation
of the NCZ II plant was therefore done on basis of funding that could be
provided by NCZ itself, with support from Zimco and the government. Due to
the scarcity of these funds, the remaining rehabilitation work was divided
into two stages: Phase IIA intended to get the NCZ II plant "up and running"
and phase IIB to get the NCZ II plant up to higher performance. At the Credit
closing date the phase IIA works were not yet completed and the NCZ II plant
had not become operational.
1.20        In 1989 the OMF contract closing date was extended in stages for
15 months to extend the provision of OMF services to cover the delay in plant
rehabilitation.
1.21        Credit Suspension.  Due to Zambia's failure to service its bank
loans and credits the Bank and IDA suspended disbursements to the country with
effect from May 1, 1987, except for disbursement on ongoing consultancy
contracts and some overseas training. The suspension was not lifted until
mid-1989. The suspension prevented the purchase of spare parts and materials
needed for plant maintenance and rehabilitation. The result was further plant
deterioration and delays.
1.22        Proiect Costs.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
about US$69.3 million. At the time of this PCR, NCZ estimated the total cost
of completing phases IIA and IIB of the NCZ II rehabilitation and showed that
the total project cost for the whole rehabilitation project was of the order
of US$108 million for foreign costs and ZKW 770 million for local costs. The
70 x increase in the foreign costs is mainly due to the increase in
rehabilitation works for the NCZ II plant that was seriously under-estimated
at the start of the project.



- 5 -
1.23        Disbursements.  At appraisal it was projected that the credit
would be fully disbursed by December 1990. However, the penultimate
disbursement was made in March 1991, when a large amount of approximately
US$2.3 million was used to retroactively finance some purchases of spare
parts. This became part of the foreign exchange supply to the country and so
assisted in the macro-financial restructuring. In May 1991, the final
disbursement of US$14,000 was made.
1.24        Risk Identification.    Early in the process the Bank recognized
that it would face many risks in the rehabilitation of a marginal, small size
fertilizer plant.  The risks were correctly identified:  projected increases
in world fertilizer prices would not materialize; delays in project
implementation; capital costs higher than expected; and, lower than
anticipated capacity utilization levels (NCZ I 80%, NCZ II 75%) due to poor
management, technical problems, and the lack of foreign exchange. The project
design attempted to accommodate these risks (part 4). Project implementation
indicates that the Bank's first evaluation that these risks were too high to
allow it to participate was correct. It was exactly the underestimate of the
scope of the work which led to higher than expected capital costs.
1.25        Safety and Environment.  The rehabilitation included plant
modifications to reduce NOx emissions to an acceptable level. Comprehensive
environmental and safety studies were carried out by the OMF and the Bank
during implementation. They have been constructively acted upon by NCZ.
F.    Proiect Results
1.26        Proiect Obiectives.  The project did not meet its chief objective
of improving domestic production of fertilizers for development of Zambia's
agriculture at minimum foreign exchange outflow.   Despite the immense
investments and efforts by the government and NCZ, the plants are still not
operating properly. The resources needed to complete the project must be
considered carefully. On the one hand, they are a drain on the energy and
finances of the country, but on the other, the return on the incremental
investment to get the NCZ II plant "up and running" is very attractive.
1.27        Physical Results.  The rehabilitation of the NCZ I plant was
completed almost on schedule. In spite of the scope of work done by the
contractor being increased during implementation, the additional costs were
within the contingency of the OEFC loan.
1.28        At the time of this PCR, the NCZ II plant had not been fully
rehabilitated or brought into operation. NCZ is still short of a few million
dollars to do the additional work identified during the execution of the
Klockner turnkey contract.
1.29        Strenatheninf  of NCZ Manazement and Organization.  The Policy and
Institutional Improvement Component which constituted the Bank's main direct
input has been fairly successful in spite of the shortfalls in the OMF
performance. The component was implemented partly by the Bank itself during
project preparation and partly by the OMF.



- 6 -
1.30        The plant operation and rehabilitation projects are now managed
completely by the Zambian personnel, following the termination of the OMF
contract and the withdrawal of the expatriate contractors. The senior and
operating managers are showing much initiative in relation to both completing
the project and improving operations. In this sense, the efforts of the Bank
and the OMF have been successful.
1.31        Financial Performance.  At the Credit closing date NCZ was again
in dire need of financial reconstructuring. It had not been in compliance
with the financial covenants for 2 years. Because NCZ has been unable to
submit recent audited accounts detailed scrutiny of the company's financial
status at closing is not possible. There is little doubt that the actual NCZ
financial performance is not comparable with the appraisal estimates since the
company has been operated with heavy losses the last 3-4 years.
1.32        Prolect Impact.  The project's training component has undoubtedly
had a positive impact on the capability and performance of the NCZ management
and staff. Today they represent a vast resource of fertilizer and process
industry expertise - a sound asset for the country. The environmental effects
of the fertilizer production in Kafue have been reduced to an acceptable level
and the safety aspects of plant operation have been significantly improved.
Further, the project has had a positive impact on the fertilizer pricing
policies and it has led to improved autonomy of one of the major parastatals,
as a possible step towards future privatization.
G.    Prolect Sustainabilitv
1.33        The present low capacity utilization makes the NCZ operation
unsustainable today. NCZ needs to function at a level where the generation of
operational profit will allow it to invest enough in preventative maintenance
to sustain operations. Sustainable operation requires the Kobe and the
Klockner plants to operate at a high capacity utilization level. This
requires the presently inactive NCZ II plant to be brought on-stream. The
estimated cost of completing Phase IIA to get the plant "up and running" has
been reduced by NCZ to about US$4 million from the originally estimated US$15-
20 million. Some US$1.3 million was obtained from Zimco and the balance is
being sought from commercial banks as NCZ improves its financial standing.
Part of the funds for Phase IIB have been obtained in the form of a US$8
million grant from the Italian Government.
1.34        NCZ is financially devastated and has been so since it was asked
by the government to take over the fertilizer marketing and distribution
activities of Namboard and ZCF more than 2 years ago. It did so but was not
given enough working capital, nor has it been paid fully for past sales. The
government directed NCZ to supply fertilizer to customers reluctant or unable
to pay for it and has not acknowledged its liability to recompense, nor has it
paid NCZ the subsidy element for the period when prices were controlled.
1.35        The company needs a capital injection of some KW 4.5 billion to
get it back on a sound financial footing. A major financial restructuring of
NCZ will thus be required to improve the company's credit rating if it is to
obtaining commercial funding for rehabilitation purposes.



-7-
H.    Bank Performance
1.36        The Bank made major efforts to minimize and control the many risks
associated with the project. Project preparation and implementation were
closely controlled and monitored. There were detailed identification, pre-
appraisal, appraisal and two post-appraisal missions. During the 63 months
between the credit effectiveness and closing, there were 14 formal - and many
more informal - supervision missions, including two major project reviews
(schedule B, section 8, part III).
1.37        The Bank's performance, including the technical staffing of the
various missions, can generally be described as satisfactory.
1.38        The financial contribution of the Bank was only 12Z of the total
funding, but yet the Bank took on the responsibility for the integration of
the project components into one single rehabilitation project and for the
coordinating, optimizing and integrating the two bilateral components. This
was a major undertaking which in the end failed to achieve its goals.
1.39        Though the Bank generally made a positive contribution to the
intended improvement of NCZ's technical integrity and economic and financial
viability, in retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt from the
experience in the Project:
(a)   The immense investment in the NCZ plant in Kafue is still non-
performing. Huge resources are required to bring the plant on
stream in a sustainable manner. It therefore seems fairly obvious
that the Bank should have stuck to its original decision not to
participate. Instead, it should have helped Zambia develop an
efficient nationwide fertilizer import and distribution system to
ensure timely availability of fertilizers at a reasonable price.
(b)   Due to the suspension of disbursements the provision of the OMF-
component became the Bank's sole direct contribution to the
project. The Bank ought therefore to have reacted more promptly
to the shortcomings and failing performance of the ONF.
(c)   The placing of expatriate consultants in line management functions
was a very delicate matter that did not turn out well. More
attention should have been given to this aspect of the OMF-NCZ
agreement. There should have been more critical scrutinizing of
the professional and personal profiles of the appointed
candidates.
(d)   Stronger technical coordination of the Bank financed components
and those of the bilateral agencies was needed.   The required
characteristics of the Bank and bilateral components need to be
sufficiently defined so that all the donors are acting together.
(e)   The rehabilitation of complex technical installations requires the
inclusion of very generously sized contingencies in the financing
plan.



- 8 -
(f)   When the major donor chose to decide against the Bank's
recommendations not to complete the project this inevitably led to
physical failure of the project. An important lesson is the risk
accepted by the Bank when relying on other donors in complex
projects, and the potential for better success if a donor takes
total responsibility for providing external assistance for a
project.
(g)   The blame for the project failure is a contentious issue.  The
bilateral agency blames Government, NCZ and the OMF. It also
blames the Bank for inadequate efforts in supervising coordination
of rehabilitation. The Bank never accepted responsibility for
more than provision of one individual as coordinator. Eventually,
though, the Bank took steps when the suspension situation
permitted and when it became evident that no other donor would
fill the gap to add to this effort through refocussing the role of
the OMP. The style and tone of bilateral communications did not
help to promote a supportive donor relationship.
I.    Borrower Performance
1.40        Government compliance with the covenants has generally been
unsatisfactory especially the provision of the necessary financial support to
NCZ during project implementation.  To a significant extent the government has
been instrumental in getting NCZ into its present serious financial jeopardy.
1.41        The technical management provided by NCZ during project
implementation can be considered satisfactory except for the lack of effort in
the maintenance and preservation of equipment and materials during the long
periods without rehabilitation activities. There is some excuse for this in
the lack of foreign exchange to obtain needed supplies, and the unclear split
of responsibilities between the OMF and NCZ.
1.42        The financial performance of NCZ has not been satisfactory.  NCZ
is out of compliance with the covenants concerning the submittal of audited
accounts for FY 90/91, which has not been received by the Bank.
1.43        In retrospect, the main lessons that can be learned by the
borrower and the beneficiary from the project experience are:
(a)   The rehabilitation of technically complex installations cannot
proceed without proper financing, including adequate provisions
for contingencies.
(b)   It is vital to establish proper responsibilities, performance
criteria and baseline when employing an OMF.
J.    Bank/Borrower Relationship
1.44        The Bank's relationship with the government, NCZ and the co-
financiers OECF and RFW has generally been good. Due to the disjointed timing



- 9 -
of the Japanese input the actual cooperation between the Bank and OECF was
rather limited. In the case of KFW it was fairly close and included
coordinated pre-appraisal and appraisal, comon project reviews and cross
effectiveness between the IDA credit and the KFW loans. The cooperation
between KFW and the Bank ended suddenly in 1990 after both had monitored
nearly 12 months of detailed negotiations between Klockner and NCZ concerning
the execution of Phases IIA and IIB. While the Bank felt that the project
should be brought to 'up and running', at that point, the German government
withdrew its support when it saw little chance of conditions being fulfilled
that it had set on project viability and management. This led to a decision
by the Norwegian Government not to finance a management contract between Norsk
Hydro and NCZ that likewise had been negotiated for months.
K.    Consulting Services
1.45        Two groups of consultants were employed to help execute the
project - an Italian company and a German firm. The Italian firm was selected
as the OMF under IDA rules from five international consulting groups. The
German firm was selected under KfW rules from a list of German consultants to
supervise Klockner's work. Neither seems to have performed with full
satisfaction. Both were the subject of many complaints by NCZ management
during project implementation.
1.46        The Italian firm was selected by NCZ and approved by the Bank as
OMF and provider of the technical coordinator. It won the bidding over a
Norwegian company, when commercial evaluation of the two bids, necessitated by
an apparently very narrow difference between the technical bids, showed that
the Italian offer was approximately 402 lower than the Norwegian one. This
was mainly due to lower Italian manmonth rates. By international standards,
the Italian firm's salaries were also quite low. This may have been the cause
of complaints by NCZ about the quality of Italian personnel. Some were said
to be less highly qualified than the Zambians they displaced, others to lack
fluency in English and many not to possess deep experience or knowledge about
parts of the technology of the NCZ plants.
1.47        An evaluation of the performance of the OMF in December 1989
indicated severe shortcomings with regard to plant maintenance, performance of
studies, issuing of progress reports, training of Zambian counterparts and
introduction of improved operating systems. Poor relations existed between
NCZ and OMF management and staff. However, taking note of the limited choices
caused by the suspension, the significant Italian grant money that had been
promised and based on a reform program for the OMF, the Bank agreed that the
Italian contract could be extended for 15 months to March 31, 1991 to cover a
crucial period of project financing negotiations.
1.48        The selection of the German consultant to control the performance
of Klockner - both German and both financed by KFW - created some problems
during implementation since NCZ believed (rightly or wrongly) that the
consultant was "too close" to the contractor.



- 10 -
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
1.49        The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement have
both been found quite adequately designed for achieving the intended project
objectives with regard to key operational, organizational and financial areas.
1.50        The Project Appraisal Report was very comprehensive and provided
an appropriate framework for reviews, supervision missions and for the present
PCR. However, a clearer definition of indicators for project implementation
and project achievements and their corresponding baseline as well as the
inclusion in the Agreements of the requirement for submittal of data for such
indicators would have been most useful in connection with project evaluation.
1.51        Generally the project files were readily available and very
comprehensive but only a few of NCZ's audited accounts could be identified in
the files. There were holdups in the auditing of the accounts caused by NCZ's
financial problems, but by the time of the PCR, all the accounts except those
for 1990/91 had been released. The Bank's database Was not able to provide
any useful Audit Covenant Reporting for this PCR.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 12 -
.1 Nitrogen Chemicals of ZambTiaLtd.
LL    ~ 3PL-ANT SITE  KAFUE INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
TeiephIone:
Kafue 311531/5                     AJ/cozrewondencetbe ad d                         P.O Box 32483
Tr.lex: Z7A 70030                        th Fe Gwera/ Mana5F!r                           LUSAKA
Telegraphic Address                                                              _-       ..
"NITROCHEME                                                 _                 P.O Box 26 KAFUE
Repub.ic of Zanbc.i.
Ref:  HCZ/GN/Ilt¶L/31k
26 June 15'92
The World Bank
1818 S. Street
Washingtone DC
20433 USA
Dear Sir
RE; PROJECT COIfILET-ICJ  REPORT Ol CREDIT 1662=>Z
ilerevith please receive our reviev for Part II of the
capitoned project as the amencmner.ts to the relevant pages as
regardas Part I and Part !II.
You4-  faithfully
MIT  EgK CHEMICALS OF ZAffBIA LIMITED
I . M. LIA
GL.
cc Mr 3. Innes World Bank Representative Lusaka
flanaging Director - NCZ



-13-
SUDWTION
It is extreaely regrettable and unforwunale that this part of the
ProJect Co0pletion Report i.e. a retrospective assessoent and analysis
of the perforzance on the key issues relating to the projects has to  ie
done when iajor areas like cozoletion of rehabilitation, cospietion cF
intended trainings, completion of the in-house coaputerised data
management systas. etc etc are NOT YET COfULE=T.
While due cognisance for certain shortcoaings outside the scope and
control of the performance under this report zust be civen such as (a)
non-cozplaince on the guarantee by BOZ to release yearly S5 Million for
main;eiancz spares, water 'reatment cheoicals and catalysts (b) delay
and set-back in the rehabilitation of the Klockner line due to freezing
of funds assured by the co-financier caused by delayed compliance by
GRZ to give economic prices to NCZ's products etc etc., all which out
up a strain on the perfcraance of the VMS, it must also be recognised
that the OMS got a sympathetic consideration froo GRZ, ZIMCO and tne
sank iteself in grartins- necessary t.ue extensions and re-allocaticns
of funds utilisation and in'act towards 5*he later half of the project
sox? exceptional assista ce frGs new co-financiers especially EEC.
Therefore, a very candid, frank and totally unbiased assessment has
been made by involving the entire 3anagement team of NCZ that has
resulted in this synopsis. Categoric stateuents wade herein can be
substantiated by records and evidence of responsibLe staff at NCZ.
While due credit aust be givan for Zambianisation and the consequent
exoosrire of Zambian Kanaters to senior and top head of the department
level responsibilities one cannot omit the saddening and disheartening
facts like (a) poor quality experts and specialists being involved (b;
Puzzling down of bonafide and purposeful criticisms by beneficiary's
employees that were contrary to the OMtS views (c) not involving the
senior Zambian personnel in the periodi. or annual project progress
reckanino discussions which coulid have contrIbuted substantially in
constructive course corrections and could have sade the oroject
financino more useful.



-14-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
PART * 
This report constitutes the beneficiary's anatysis and evaluation of
the project for purposes of ,,sth the statutory requirement and the
learning objective o  the World Bank which are set out in detail as
here-in-under.
P)  MPWDfiTED TPSKS
Obviously oroiect cosaletion is not just the exhaustion of the funds
aLaotred for it or tne iapsing of the ti:. frame allotted for it.  It
is eoually achiev3ng the targets set or comzleting the aandaed task
oricinailv intended.
The mandated tasks. envisaged originally for. the OMS (Overseas
Manaaement Service) cocpany were:-
;)  Technical co-ordination of the rehabilitation of
both the Kobe line and the Klockner Line, tcsether with any
other component mutually agreed as reouired for the
rehabilitation project;
2)  Management and assistance in the operations of the plant during
and after coapietion of the rehabilitation;
3)  install a suitable in-house coaputer system to meet all
managesental data processing needs and train NCZ
oersonnel in manning and iaproving the same to meet the grow:ng
future needs of the company;
4)  Develooment and iaple.entation of proper organizational
restructqrina of NCZ to sustain continued viable operations;
5)  Training of NCZ Zambian personnel for the sace;
6)  Preparation and subsission of various studi*i set-forth in
-poendix A i.e.,
i)  Environmental studies of solid and liouid effluent
disposal systems;
ii) Eneergy audit study;
iii)  Study of safetv procedures;
/1. ..



- 15 -
The detailed description at Appendix A soecify that each study should
detersine current and future impact of the study subject and propose
adequate recoamendations to adhere to s.rict in.ernational standards
and af'ter approval by NtCZ -o supervise their  zplementations.
Tne mandated tasks were to last from Oc'ober 195 to Deceaber 1985 and
cost a total of 423 man conths of assorted crades but durino the tenure
was extended vide Side Letter I dated 27th March, 1983. The emphasis of
Vhis Side Letter which was duly aporoved by World Bank was:-
li  To enhance the validity of OMS manmonths to 882;
P)  To enhance correspondingly the fees and charnes payable to 0MS
home office , living allowance, travel and contiRgency costs
and;
3) To enhance the personn2l to suzport the Technical
5o-ordinator o' the rehabilitation by Seven (7) aore.
a'er by a further Side letter Ii dated 29th November, 1989, the tenure
of the project was extended by a period of 12 months so as to Last up
to 31st December 1990 and the OMS's responsibility towards
orcanizational restructuring was curtailed so as to remove 'he
responsibility of management by OMS personnel who were to acooint and
train the Zambian counterparts by makinc OMS personnel as counterparts
in an advisory and consultant capacity with the Zaubian managers'
becoming responsible for rlmning the plant.
Finally vide agreement dated 19th November 199C, the ceried of CIMS
involvement under Worid Bank project was extended by a further 3 months
but contingent upon the OMS company obtaining before expiry of such
extended per-iod.  The Italian grant of 11.65 ITL approved for the
revised scope of the feasibility study proposal that was already
submitted through NCDP GRZ to the Italian Government.
It was therefore, clear froo the above that the projects mandated tasks
had often been chanced and had been watered down considerably initially
because of freezing of the funds from the co-financiers KIW and tne
non-implementation of certain GRZ conditions envisaged under the
original project proposal and then later on amended again due to
weaknesses shortcoming and failures in the OMS cospany's actual
performance against targeted goals.
B)  CDTIMJINUTY OF PES0tf.... INUOLV V
It 5ust be born in mind that the consistency and continuity of
performances by all the parties was hampered by quite a few chanoes in
the ac'ual personnel assigned for the iobs. Numerous changes in
/2...



- 16 -
:I.'S personnel have airea,'y been detailea witsh 'oric 5'aink. There were
anree (3) changes in t,e Managing D'iractcr c.: INCZ wno is -;e soI e a-..C
orime operating officir o' the bene`ic4ary recognzizec undor the
cnt rac.   Even cn thh  finar.ciers' sice the  ,nitial s-;,as of
cortr-olling and directing the aandated tasks wsas ves-ed witn an
cf`licial wicse sy-=.atn3tic consaerati-on for tne OeiS was -undu2uy nhin.
Efcrfts are now being done to assimilat e all the deciu-taental coaaents
an the varcic; faces c.f OhS performan-ce.
C)  TECHNICAL CO-O D1NATION CY   E}tI,_I 6TATIQN
.he zero daa f.or tr.e retaoh:ration  C tne Xobe Line financed by tL_
.7aanrase co-financier DECF hiad already co3senced ana the zechnical
soecifica icns , proccre-,-.nts of piant ane ea..iipasn; etc 'ad progressed
considerably before the Woria project caae into effect.  The
procurecent costs had beenr ke,pt withi.n  tne Japaness Grant-s value
limits a.d sTrficient contingency furn's were availaole -nen tne OMS
techinical co-crdinazino cerscanel under "he iWorld Bank furndina came on
Sit' 6,.us; in tia  'or the shu:down o4 the Kobe oiant lines and co-ld
sucarvise the shutdown, eraction, coo±issiOning and startup of the Kobe
!ine right on scnedule. But tne co-ordination o.f this Kabe
rehabilitatio.. and dovetailing the saze with the Xiockner line
rehabilitation prograzoe started setting rouqg  waather frog the very
wor_ "'co.  Apparently, this pritue Vask which should have been
comola'ed bv November i388 as mar the original project so as to have 14
mcntis of post rehazilitation ooQrations under OMS supervision is ye'
to be compieted despite the projec' time tha; has beon sui-ably
extended.  Thus in essence, the project is not couplet*.  The reasons
Zor this delay are varying and noz all o' it attrioutable to OMS.
Those that could be attrjt4tgd to OMS' are:
DeFective tlchnical excertise and defoctiv@ secuence anc execution oa
joes e.; costly superfluous replace;snt of vesseis lhke the drop
Seoarator in Gasification and unnecessary draining of available
resou±rces cn Air Conditioning of Control Races at  er-vat expenses while
totally ignoring  water draining and dust sealing of suc stations which
are totally damagirn; and detrimental for efficient post renLiitat.d
operations.
Defective technglogy i.e, even with prior experience of blockages and
leakages due to corrosion in the Paocnia Ractisol heat exchangers
within two years of actual perforsance, the project co-ordination
envisaged only one filter uostrsai  of only one heat exchanGer wi.thout
reall  analysing the sol; tion of the problem of blockage and leakages.
The cause of t..e problee was socething else i.e, NCX abataxent which
was well established before the zero date itself, this one filtar
upstraaz on one heat exchanger onLy was rnot
/3. .. 



- 17 -
3/...
a solution at all.  Examination and replacement of, the already davaged
hea' exchanger was not covered under Fhase I of the project but was put
under the beneficiary's scope.  Further the techhical survey did not
address the eauinent failures of Air Separator plants whose average
life span should hava been circa 12 years under noraal working
condi.ions.  Also there was no necessity to install a new desicn, of the
Oxygen Evaporator which was not  being used anyway.
Mbnageuent of available contingency finances.  The OMS appeared to ha've
been over-lax in approving contracts variations and a lot of variations
which did not have a direct beaeing on the project had exhausted all
the planned contingency even before  the  erection cousenced.  The
scope did not emphasize or  zero  on  the  major bottleneck areas and
the project adzinistration apparently lackid proper perception in the
allocation and utili:ation of available resources.
Dofective prgcurement.  It is apparent tHat in a number of cases, the
relationship between what was required and what was procured were
totally unrelated. Certain items were bought when the plant on which
they wer* to be installed had already been modified or scrapped
(debagging machines, wooden conveyor); two large fans, cozplete missing
the motors only were bought as spares when the plant had only one such
fan in use.  The two fans are still in stores and what would have beoen
a useful procuremont would have been the bearings and saall components
requiring to be replaced within 2 years of operations but not the whole
fan itsel'.  The fans would pr-obably not be needed for another 8 to 10
years.
In another case 6 fans were bought to replace existing 2 wlth an
average life pwrforuance of 5 years at least. Another classice ase is
that of OMS procurement of 80 drive pulley sets all of the sawe gearing
ratio when in the factory there are only a such pulley s*ts with a life
ceriod of over 10 years average.  Infact the whole factory has on'y 40
pulley sets. of varying gearing ratios.
Organization of NCZ scope was to ay the least most haphazard and unco-
ordinated. Engineers and Technicians of Zambian orioin were first
ignored and lots of technicians totally strange to the jobs were
i5pcrted at very heavy manhours cost but whose reports or NCZ
/4...



- 18 -
4,...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
scope of work had to be scrapped. Later or, enlightenaent dawned and
Zambian Engineers, Process Supervisors Technicians were involved in
finalizing the now enlarged NCZ scope but many of then were uisdirected
under technical co-ordinacor of the rehabilitation and the morale
dropped significantly and staff turnover of experienced staff was
exceptionally high.'
D)  MANASEE:ENT AND ASSISTANCE IN PLRNT OPERATIONS DURING AND AFTER
REHABILITATION
With this responsibiiity beirg at least partly unaccooplishable since
tne prise responsibility of rehabilitation is yet to be completed, it
s. also apparent that various side letters and amendeents dissolved and
diluted considerably the original responsibility of plants operational
management and upon stream lining of procedures and operation manuals
for Zawbians to take over completion of the project. However this
being a cardinal area with regard to the contribution of OMS as well as
an expansive area for scope to contribute in this regard, the views of
various Heads of Departments have been culled into some positie
achievements or the pro-points and some negative aspects or. the con-
points.  The pros-points can be suamarised as:-
1)  Contrary to the management before the advent of OMS when the
Zaaiian middle and senior manacers were 'not encourageda to learn
and get acquainted with the plant operations and manacement, the
OMS brought with then a different concept in which they reaoved
as many indian expatriates as possible and Zaobianised thelr
positions quite fast and expeditiously. However, they had
wronuly assumed that the Zaubians knew nothing and the role of
OMS cospany were to show them how to operate the plant,
preferably the ltalian way even though the circumstances and
environment in Zambia were quite different froo thoie in Italv.
z)  OMS also broadened managerial cadres, by scrapping of the
'Assistants' positions and by segregating plants into smaller
manageable units for which supervisors were appointed who
reported directly to the head of department.
3)  The appointment of Junior officers for day to day operations thus
concentrating on manufacturing anc caintenance operations with a
small skeleton of personnel under Planning.
4) The Laboratory was made independent of Production with a separate
head of department reporting to the General Manager/Works Manager
which not only relieved the Production Manager of the strain but
also constituted effective policing and control of products
including waste products and effluents.
/5,...



- 19 -
'5.e..
5)  Tne philosophy before their advet- was that both oroduction and
.aintenance were equally responsible for the plant anc ecuicoent.
But they brought in a ohilosophy that the plants and equipment
belona to t.he producticn staff who live with the equipaent.  This
change in philosophy increased the production department's
dedication to ro;tine plant maintenance.
E)  Other production cost savings were envisaged by use of Limestone
instead of unslaked Lime; usino synthetic Gypsuo as .filler for
NPK were also welcome cenceops.
However, there were substantial negative aspects attached with
each pros point;-
i)  When contrary to the earlier assumptions they discovered
that Zazbiar. staff were not es ionoran- as orioinallv
thought severe serious iron fisted intimidation and booting
out some who were too clever for them were practised.  Jcb
security meant total agreement with the OhS staff.,
ii) The specialists who'came froc C;tS for management assistance
were by and large ignorant of the processing techniques of
the plant they were slpposed to manage.  The 'expertn for
gasification had never seen a gasifier and the Ammonia plant
'Specialist" even complained that he had never heard or seen
a rectisol system operated.  Various other 'expertsa in NPK
and Maintenance were no more than "clerified Technicians"
and the amount of knowledge transferred to NCZ technicians
were negligible a-nd not worth the zoney spent on these
exoerts manmonth costs.
iii) The 0M5 company had no programmes fcr Middle and Senior
level,vanagesent and the canda-t  for training with OMS
associated compan.es was never actioned.
.v) The centralization of planning activities had caused serious
emergency breakdown because of the relative alienatian of
the planning section from the shopfloor level. Thus i.stead
of planned programoes taking shape, the performance under
OMS canagecent was more of constant fire fighting.
v) While creating a separate department called transport
department  super'luously reduced oressure of purchasing
department as well as production departeent who were herein
before responsible fotr actual sovements clearing
/6...



- 20 -
6/...
and physical receipt, spares, bulk raw materials etc.  T;-,e
employees recruited and specialist ass.ined to these
decart.ents were obsclutely raw and there was ncre chaos
than order coopared to herein before.
v., OiS failed miserably in detailing and imple2enting
preventive  aintenanc and therefore efforts to reduce
productio,s costs and increase plant operational ti4es cave
apparent spurts o. producticn but had severe daeaoe
inflicted onro the olant.  This was fur'tner accEntuated i7:
the absence or ouaran2eed foreign exchange for buying
preyentive maint-enance spares.
vii) House keeoing in NCZ which was already in bad shaoe was Wilde
worse durinc 0,cS ;anacesent period with nouse cleaninc
efforts reserved for ioportant visitors to the factory.
Ccopiiterisavion of stores has still reiained a pipe dreac
and with the added confusion prevailing during OMS
manace2ent re.-e locatino ewercen,cv soares items was a
n iaht^are.
Vii:) NCZ's pas' records of effluent hanoling was characterizea  by
outletting Nitrates in the liquid outlet courses into the
Kafue River and disposing boiler ash and solid waste in
specific places outside the factory but GMS committed wsrse
zurders by pouring liquid acidic waste from Sulphuric Acid
Plant (when the slurry eaffluent pumps failed) into the Ka.ue
river.  Calcine dust was allowed to accumulatb  in
undesignatec areas.  The casious eaissions from NPK and SAP
did severe damage to Zesco power statisn.
In the final analysis. while al. management responsibili-ties were
thrust quite expeditlously on Zambian Managers who got exposed to
=anagement pressure and responsibili-ties poor quality experti5e1
intimidation, shortcut metv,ods to increase produc'ion quantities or to
reduce production costs without adequate care for plants and equipoent
lif'e and corrosive damages, substantial fall in the stringent stancar-ds
dedication and morale, maintained in NCZ before DMS eYa etc., have all
au't together, core than nullified any advantages gained.
E)  INSTALLATION OF SUITABLE COMPUTER SYSTEM
The project's couple3ion required choosing a proper in house computer
sys'em so that satifactory mnageent da'a including various statistics
relating to sales, production, manufacturing costs are available in an
in'crcrated fashion.  NCZ had been hiring piece seal comouter services
froo various outsiders like IBM,
/7...



- 21 -
Indeco Computer Centre, ICL etc.  These were scraoav, inadequate and
had to be intercrated intc an efficient system within the company
itself.  It therefore, involved perse choosing the optimuz systew and
then inter-cratir6 sales. payr-oll, purchasing   stock and stores
accounting systess into one efficient viable unit and training NCZ
personnel to use the same an% ioprove the syste;s to be in li;-,e with
the crowing and constartly dynasic aanagee2nt- requirecents.
.n 'he choosinc of the hardware of the co=puter systeQ. there aopoars
ta have been error of judge;ent as a c,icro-computer system of ICL DRS-
30) was opted upon with 12 me2a bytes zeGory and a fixed disk space a,
135 sega bytes.  Also the planned conTiguration could not be se- .up due
to the wrong hardware purchased as t.he terainals ordered were wrong for
the requireoents.   further most of the packages bought along with the
computer systeQ could not be used because of pocr comprehension ao  the
oacnages e.g. SMB financial oackages were useless because they were
oainiy tailored f.r retailer's outlet situations.  TI-ese packages are
s-till lying idle in NCZ.
As regards the development of intergrated systea to say the least it
was excepcionally slow.  The intercration involved payro'l
accounting, the sales and debtor accounting, stocks accounting
cooputerisaction of invoice, malerial receipts and spare parts statres to
De all Intergrated with a main ledger sys'em togeother with ancillary
statistical data on prrduction sales. plantwise production costs etC.,
to be readily available to the ma;nagement for its decision m aking.  The
ti;e 'frame was to complete these within the first 3O months of the
project oeriod, test, de-bug and homoginise the fully intergrated
system for the next 12 months and then the NCZ personnel to take over
ocerations and developments of the systez during the next S months.
Orioinal idea was thaV OihlS sKill code with tailor made  zackages for .SCZ
and institute the inztergrated system making it operational within 6
=Gnths, but that was an impossible conc2ption.  Howaver, until the
comoletion of the extended project period only payroll accountina and
.ndustrial accounvs systems were completed.  The sales, debtor,
creditor, nominal', costing and stocks toagther with the computerisation
of tne stores for spar e p.drts cortrol were all lvft iioeplete.  In a
nut shell the overall objective of the intergrated accounting system
has not be achievtd.
As regards training no traininc of any kind was offered to the cosouver
staf' recruited as fortunately well qualified and experienced
indigenous Zambians were availalea who in soce cases were more
cualified t'an the OV.S computer specialist himself.  Ts thus Was
instrumental in develcoino alternate softiware packages within t-he
comppny itself in lieu of the wrong SME softwares accuired along with
the cocputers.  ,The Zambian qualified stalf recruited were largely
responsible for the payrcll accourting. and the industrial accounting
systems installed during the tenure of
/8...



- 22 -
tne or-oject.  They have also, after the coapletion of the project
pericd. put in place the sales and debtors systec, the purchases
creditars, and stock control system, nominal ledner and subaccUunting
syste2s and have all but completed the intergration of the system
excep3ing the cocputerisation of the stores which is expected to be
copl;tafid before 19'93.
F)  DEVELOPMENT OF PRfMR ORSPNISATIONAL STRLUCTURE AND TRAINING FOR
CONTINUED 'JIABILIrt 0F OPERATIONS.
T.,.s is an area where requireaents of the proJect appears te have
undergone var.ous chances during the tenure of tIe project pericd.
Initially there was an erroneous concept that the Zaibians had to be
trained ab-initio foroutvino trhe fact that they were instrumental  n
running the plant lines despite defective designs and defective
Uaterials ef construction and they had operated the Kobe line rcr over
15 years. rnis had caused a lot of manhozrs being wasted in imoarting
rud.Zentary knowledge of basic science like mas;s  telperature. pressure
etc.  which the operators had actually covered in secondary sclhoals.
Fur.her as the project ti3o prcoressed. it beca;s more and 2ore
apparsnt that the indigenous Zagbians were infact zore experienced and
kr.o,wedaeable than the OMS specialists themselves and if at all scaz
orientation and exposure to 2odern managemental techniques was enly
required. But the progress in this regard was ciniaal if rot ni1.
This is further eaphasised by the changes in project requirement Vide
Letter ' and II which altered the mana;gsent during the rehabilitation
froc OMS hainds with Zacbians as counterparts to Fanagesent by Zambian
with GMS as counterparts.
Another major area of improvement required under this project's
mandated tasks was te prooerly organised var'cus Procedures and manuals
such as laying down the specific startup and operating xanuals for each
plant, saiintenance manuals etc.. so that the operators do not co by
personal experience alone but have a code or set of procedures to
follow and abide by. The progress in this regard was also very poor
and even as of now, the Zambian Managars are updating or writing up the
various plant wanuais.
The sta'us as of now is that it is well r2eognised by a.l concerned
that proper ard adequate sanagerial and organisational skills for
viable opetations is available with the Zaobian Managers itself and
what is required is only (a) Periodic and consistent updating with
modern war.ageuental teChniques,  (b) Minimal or preferably no outside
interfarenci in the commercially prudent ways of sanaging the cospany
and (c) Last but not least, basically necessary working capital and
prcject completi'or finance.  Infact the viability of the company is
already watted by the World Bank when they eleared the 5 year business
plan and which can be if fel' necessary be appended or referred tc in
twhe PCR by the World Barnk.
'3. ..



- 23 -
While tnere was some trutb 4n the otioinai concept of NOZ beinr over-
s;affed~ a-d the pr%;inr.g exer-l.we be uzj ertaken. waalt reas;;y hapcened
as Thhe bet of thre lot and not tVet dead wccd or %ihe oassencers in NCZ
wih  oaot snip-wed or oruned. if anything. t.* in.ti   requireceftt that
uiddle and senior managers be exposed; to ncGern technolo;y was the most
p.rposefo:i of the trainin  n.eecs be1 dtizita Deroidic Mcnitoriing by
varlous  articipants e.g. NCZ, OMS, Ziseo and World Rank this was left
in abeyance anc nr.a  tackled.  .t wouid -e ve^y useful 'r the lender
and borrower together with the executr to have Ope.T orass roc t level
meetlir:s and roaress reckning procedures So 'tha; necessary pesitive
course correc.,ions aire instituteci adc.inist-erad and monitoi-ed sav on ;;a
aocrthly or year' y basis.
6)  ENV UiRUIE]RL STUDY
i; s.udy was carried out by a senior OMS offsicial during peniod July 66
to March 87.  The report campilid an' published during t.he said pericd
was joist an aggregation of the data aiready know-n to NCZ personnel
re3arcino the actual polltantis and their various ieveis and 3udia of
olo.ution nut which were not properly decuccented in 'he cast by NCZ.
The environmental study report thus officially released in M¶arch 67 wes
jus' an as;imilitation of the various laboratory reoorts; discussions
w.th vharious shopfloor supcrintendenits and zanagers and systes2atic
documwntation of historical da'a.  Unfortunately the oroiect's real
reouiresents of proposing suitazie control technology, design
soecifications and costing of the oodificatien after analysis of
econoeic benefits derived therefrcm et., here not done at all let
alone the question of monitorina thail ici leeeration.  The report thus
beirio iasic rudicentiary historical infor3ation. has since been filed
away.
H)   ENER1Y hUDIT
Unfortunately during the tenure of the project period there was no
studv or- roort undertaken or done.  However, since  :ar-       NCZ's
Technical deoart.ent has been carrying out their ohn; scrutiny and
evaluation cf all the Energy utilised in trne factory with a view to
identify all sources of energy wastag3es and losses in the plant. The
Technical departeent have eade the recozendations soec of which are at
the iolece.ntation stage and it is expected that all the
recosweadations will be implemented fully befcre 1993 - 94 provided
necessary finances therefor aro available.
/1. . .



1-   xi <t  -I   5: *u                           : .cD 1:                                IV   1 >ZZ1 It
:F. t            s  '' -        ('                                      =1  lb o   1tatI   -    Im X   U E .         9
rjo  n-.~      r         *-~  ~ 0          -I s1                *ri  "    .e   n      l        u    (I  o 
_         t>4            n                 I  A e    v-  41 a    tt *i  ,h      H    rit  n    -'   -i
n3  O., - fo  LA                   ::J  ::   n    n         V -.      n .  0   :1C   0   gn   I   0       -I
<    _tH                      t   II-- La    -               5  I- n    to   i    S .-        o   o    v           -
F       .                0.-. U  IL;L C   lit 5U.*A-a            4 1(U    '        Arj            cJ       of      t
fs   1-' rs   t    n   , ~ILIto  l                                                                 -,J l   J n P    R t
0,     <'lCl   in--oI
-^  di                 c    .    Jw    z*U*11 r) _.  -t O                               (               ^
=J1 0  Inl              ci    0  JO t             L              O  rr C. 'I' F*  1                2+ n  -          )rr
nJol                      a...~~~~~~~~~~6  X1.CJ1 -    .                                     ;I
E   t    0t n <t- Cl. Co    J I    El             Col      I--  0   LA         11  .ti O
rtu. 5    a-  ri      g      St  tt. 7.  cj  >-                 z           C   :   ti  c''
Et,~      o   stI_U       *                       sl C.-   o aICJ      W        I        V          tfJ
tDR4 - :- C)  c>  *       .  0   cr           i  -               :i        :i   tD            U 
-b            t                                  '          *1-   k Itcu  u  rv  -. zE  M
,1, t.   I               1    ')  C3.        I'  .i                        -_ tD   L.*         J !'B 
*'        O(J                 f)ri  U'.a a r   'S                 .c. -C)   I-t tIJ    '                            _-
re'n *-As :J             C:  C               oil .-I,            *'-  o                    *        lc C^
Li  rt :1    )                fl   o J     *                     in' flt  *                    _II  " 1
-C        :1             *    CtN        i 0J                     o.-'          st    I ~-         '    C
C    .        ak.          ',C  -) ci   ,)                       Ibt  I-r *              (irsr     3.   Cl        p
el  ub                   LA _:   l)  El  EL                 C    iA        -1 1'      '  ::   (1 1
"al fsat,                          aE  U.                        rJ.A 'u    1 wnJ <C  *
.t    in tD    bJ  rio -'              ,tt        -a             -i                                      Li        U) _   'J   l  L o
0 t 1"                       (PA -i-             i- cm *1i
*uli   Co- tLa                cil,f          C) rC                              CT-''   "1. tr   h   1*
U,  o*   -b   rnm  :n u                     n  -b 0'             u    C-  _r '.  OU
bi        Di             - O  'r'i ,n        n.1    -lb   "1                         I4      lC    U
fO                            f T            O1  sef                       10 sp        n4 :
I.A  n         .i En         IT *5 fJ          O        -C                    If    -   P            I >   < -
rIm    Un' IW                          C U                        I    r. L         i r   rC   gED   P
ct  1so    _                        *-l0 j       o                    0) Il       U P    1          .d l 
'<I   III  O    :       J          :    A   (J Ie  n; ,                                   rjS  ^2        C, '
Si   c     .)            Bp  if) 1      -    (I             C)  ( J     A    'i ct' l n        (O   Li
UV      Ci  in.'                   La    i )   -Ol               Ci    l'c-            , VI         -itL 0 -I
rib          El'                         _  c-i                  .     l  *.'        :0 -            l    J*
r     i' U1L fi   - *                        b                   Li eA     r ' .:l  r               U kl
rri                 C              - 0-n                   I(             Cl -- f     .ll -    '.
fe  s  n                t    (5O                             aU i  w  ntn o .In  5:  : 
ici    J  rj         t-,C& .      ..   aht               '    -  II.   I  ;Ul  0 ) I--  et
f    U  D    li                J  (A F -I CJ      c_ I            J  -1,    C      i E .       L -,   I * [
U.       -9             Oi        **                   -. -  l   n C    CI  Fl  '    Q,:      cf-7
o~~-~~~:   0  }           -I        C.      e      a   olJ  /'S    n--ii                  :a 
lC                       2 L,  ,L'1          pi             -< *(               Voi __      n
Jl  -S   -               u  -   Ul      -   CU              1            f. ^             s        U
n.rp     .n -              FU   O1 C.  X.                U,-   :1  1JEJ    fD (a  -9         , t
TJ   I&      U b         IC         J fJ                              -5 Tr1  < CL    .:
'3   ro  C I    0                                  1 1  r-  -r  fl   CL.  ni          - J:i
*rz  :rJ   ,-ai                           '-              '  ^  e,1  LI~  o   n        'C        t-I
C:   -;                       vu -b                                   onl 91  t *   r n   n   c; n    Efi
:J                       ul -z,                                  (O *1- -t, clts-, o  *--   Q I M e-  '.
(1                    flJ - c                            2          J'1'-a,a' O O't-> <-   I    e    _
ci   *-' (fl     0-' ETa  *'*  U ILi                r.j       CU   to        cf -j   cl1   r
o' 5                  nu  ru   cI-L,               r'-       ifl Io'        r1            'LE
::* ~     ~       '                   C).                      Ci  (l  ()1140 j\  Ji 
i rVI )             C)  to   -1:                        -,      *        r,  Cf  n.0*-
rt.  r' ("'J i                     b                             c-I    C    Z )          r   -I.
*   C-i             *1       t    - *D                                hU *l o l 
t}~~~~~~f            (.J <- ct C-                           J   %E  :1, *1,1 I'l           t-
-}   ,   . (       ]   e~~~~-, gig  . --  .I         Sb C7     I)   D;  O            - tl  :r
It5            E C   '    -    'J  C                                 C.). rl- tfl  .      ;te
Cn fl                L       LO   ;:1' (O                       4,  7J  :J.              c r -
#U r)                  T                                            rJ. Q.       (        S o       ' -10
fl.              O' t k z1       4clt'   :19 .7                                             -
C-4    ~              r .1                               el  O



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1662-ZA)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit       Purpose                            Approval      Status
Credit 1545-ZA    To encourage and support the       January       Completed
Agricultural      Government of Zambia's             1985
Rehabilitation    efforts in policy and insti-
Project           tutional reforms in the
agricultural sector.
Credit 1630-ZA    To improve the foreign ex-         October       Completed
Industrial        change allocation and              1985
Reorientation     import licensing system,
Project           to initiate changes in the
import tariff, protection
and incentive systems and
to increase the promotion
of nontraditional exports.



- 26 -
2.    Proiect Timetable
Date        Date         Actual
Item                           Planned      Revised      Date
Project Identification                                   Aug. 83
Initial Project Brief                                    Feb. 84
Staff Appraisal Report                                   June 84
Decision not to Participate                              Sept. 84
Appraisal                                                Nov. 84
Issues Paper                                             Dec. 84
Decision Memorandum                                      Jan. 85
Post Appraisal Mission/Report                            Apr. 85
Staff Appraisal Report
(yellow cover)                                           May 85
Draft President's Report                                 June 85
Credit Negotiations                                      Aug. 85
Post Appraisal Mission/Report
(grey cover)                                             Sept. 85
Staff Appraisal Report                                   Feb. 86
Board Approval                                           Feb. 86
Credit Signing Date                                      April 86
Date of Effectiveness          July 86                   Sept. 86
Credit Suspension                                        May 87
Credit Closing Date            Dec. 90      Dec. 91      Dec. 91
Credit Report Completion
Date                           June 91      June 92      June 92



- 27 -
3.    Loan Disbursement
-------- US$ Million (see note) ----------
Actual X
Bank Fiscal Year               Estimated          Actual           of Esti-
and Semester                   Cumulative         Cumulative       mated
1986
12 .31 .85                          -                  -
06.31.86                        1,000                660               66
1987
12.31.86                        2,000              1,094              55
06.30.87                        3,100              1,973               64
1988
12.31.87                        4,200              2,794              67
06.30.88                        5,500              3,412               62
1989
12.31.88                        6,800              4,930               73
06.30.89                        8,000              5,966               75
1990
12.31.89                        9,000              6,338              70
06.30.90                       10,000              7,952              80
1991
12.31.90                       10,000             10,000             100
06.30.91                       10,000             10,000              100
1992
12.31.91                       10,000             10,000             100
06.30.92                       10,000             10,000              100
Date of Final Disbursement: 10.05.91.
The USD values in the table are calculated on the basis of the
conversion factor between SDR and USD prevailing at the time of the appraisal
estimates, namely 1.0309. This allows direct comparison between the actual
disbursements and those estimated at appraisal. The actual USD equivalent
disbursed was $12,856,800.



- 28 -
4.     Proiect Implementation
Appraisal               Actual (or
Indicators/I                  Estimate                PCR Estimate)
Indicator 1:
Technical rehabilita-         Completion ex-           Completed by end of August
tion of the NCZ I             pected by May            1986/2
plant                         1986
Indicator 2:
Technical rehabilita-         Rehabilitation           Rehabilitation started in
tion of the NCZ II            expected to             Jan. 87 and stopped in
plant                         start March 1986         Nov. 89 with plant being
and be 100% com-        only approx. 60% rehabi-
pleted by Decem-        litated.
ber 1987
Indicator 3:
Technical rehabilita-         Rehabilitation          Not completed by end of
tion of off-site,             expected comple-         1991
infrastructure and            ted by December
environmental facili-         87
ties
Indicator 4/3:
Total cost of rehabi-
litation of NCZ I
plant:
- Local                       2.880 mill. ZKW         8.322 mill. ZKW
- Foreign                     6.342 bill. Yen         6.342 bill. Yen
Indicator 5:
Total cost of rehabi-
litation of NCZ II
plant (i.e Phases I,
IIA and IIB) /4:
- Local                       1.5 mill. USD           335 mill. ZKW
- Foreign                     25.86 mill. USD         71.52 mill USD



- 29 -
Indicator 6:
Total cost of rehabi-
litation of off-site,
infrastructure and
environmental facili-
ties:
- Local                      0,15 mill. USD          N.A.
- Foreign                    5.41 mill. USD          N.A.
Indicator 7:
Provision of Technical       Totally 423 man-        Totally 1,073 manmonths
Assistance                   months assistan-        assistance provided in the
ce to be provi-        period 1985 to March 1991
ded in the
period 1985 to
1989
Comments:
1.     The staff appraisal report from February 1986 does not contain
any clearly defined indicators for project implementation
except those related to time required for physical
rehabilitation of the two plants and the size of the related
costs. Thus, no specific indicators have been defined for OMF
performance (except total number of manmonths to be provided)
or technical rehabilitation of off-site, infrastructure and
environmental facilities, being the major bank financed project
inputs.
2.     Due to later than estimated entering into force of the contract
for NCZ I the actual delay in project completion was only one
month.
The completion was valid only for the KOBE Works. The NCZ scope
of site works was increased considerably during rehabilitation
and these works were only partly completed at the time of
completion of the Japanese Contractor's Works.
3.     The rehabilitation of NCZ I was kept within the total Foreign
exchange financing provided by OECF.
Variation orders issued during rehabilitation, however, only
left approx. 20 mill. Yen of the originally allotted 216 mill.
Yen contingency as balance for use in connection with purchase
of spare parts.



- 30 -
The difference in actual local NCZ expenditure and originally
estimated coat was due to increased scope of NCZ site works.
4.     The German loan was full utilized in connection with the
rehabilitation of the NCZ II plant by KINA but only resulted in
approx. 602 plant rehabilitation.
The total local costs of rehabilitating NCZ II amounted to
approx. ZKW 335 million in March 1991 and a further investment
of approx. ZKW 393 million is envisaged by NCZ before NCZ II
plant rehabilitation can be considered completed.



- 31 -
5.     Proiect Costa and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ million)
Appraisal Est.              Actual (3-31-91)
Local   Foreian   Total    Local*  Foreian   Total
Engineering & License         -       3.04    3.04   )
Equipment & Materials      0.03      28.14   28.44   )
Freight & Insurance        0.81       3.29    4.10   ) 218      98.23
Civil Works & Erection    1.26        9.38   10.64   ) 3.42**
Spare Parts                   -       8.43    8.43   )
Technical Assistance       0.64       6.02    6.66   )
Training                   0.10       0.61    0.71   )  28        9.76
Base Cost Estimates        3.11      58.91   62.02       --
Physical Contingencies    0.31        4.79    5.10       --
Price Contingencies        0.35       1.78    2.13       --
Total Project Cost         3.77      65.48   69.25      246     107.99
3.42**
Incremental Working
Capital                   12.07          -   12.07
Interest during Constr.       -       2.43    2.43      117
Overall Financing
Required                  15.84      67.91   83.75      363      107.99
3.42**
NCZ I plant                1.22      26.71   27.93      3.42**   26.71    30.13
NCZ II plant               1.50      25.86   27.36      335       71.52
Off-site & Infra-
structure                  0.15       5.41    5.56
Tech. Assis. & Training   0.90 L7.50    8.40             28        9.76
Total Project Cost         3.77      65.48   69.25      363      107.99
3.42**
*   -  ZKW
** - US$



- 32 -
B.     Proiect Financine
Planned
(Cr.1662-ZA)           Revised      Final
Agreement             06/16/89    03/31/91
Source                (USS'OOO)              (USS'000)   (USS'000)
IDA
Expenditure CateRories
1. Equipment + Materials        4,200                  860          237
2. Technical Assistance         5,300                8,640        9,763
3. Overseas Training               500                  500            0
Total IDA                      10,000               10,000       10,000
Co-financing Institutions
EEC                                                               12,835
KFW/FRG                          27,200                -          45,192
OECF/Japan                      26,680                 -          26,680
MAE/Italy                             0               8,000        8,000
NCZ                               5,370                -              649
ZIMCO                                 0                           16,028
Total                           69,250                           101,438
Comments:
From the Italian Foreign Ministry a grant of US$8 mill. equivalent has been
provided, partly for financing of additional TA by the OMP and partly for
procurement of materials and equipment for phase II B.



- 33 -
6.     Proiect Results
A.     Direct Benefits
Appraisal      Actual       Actual      Actual
Est. for       for           for         for
Indicator                Unit    March 89 /1   March 89        March 90   March 91
Indicator 1
Annual sales
AN                 MT       95,000         18,247         17,433    73,951
Compounds          MT      120,000        66,796          36,332    95,673
Other              MT       15,000           NA              NA        NA
Indicator 2
Yearly capacity
utilization                X           75             32             25        55
Indicator 3
(financial results)
Sales/other income       Mill.
ZKW         489            276             335      2.587
Depreciation                -          41             24             25         31
Interest costs             -           24              7             25        177
Other costs                 -         309            256            300      2.000
Total Costs                 -         374            287            350      2,214
Net profit/loss
before extraordinary
items                      -          115            -11            -15        373
/1     March 1989 was target project completion date.



- 34 -
D. Studis
Studies                    Purmose as defined at aporaisal                     Status          Impact of study
1. Organizatio-            Review and streamlining of HCZ orga-               Completed       Limited especially with regard to pro-
nal restruc-           nizational structure. Develop proper                                duction optimization. cost control and
turing study           systems and procedures for produc-                                  training of Zambian counterparts
of NCZ                 tion optimization and cost control
and establish financial and mana-
gement information system
2. Environmental           Review of possible environmental                   Completed        Recomendations being implemented in
study                  problems determined by liquid                                       connection with plant rehabilitation
effluents and solid wastes from the
fertilizer complex and proposed
measures to comply with local/in-
ternational regulations
3. Safety case             According to recent IDA guidelines                  Partly         Only pert of the inastalations covered
study                  to identify possible hazards                        completed       by the study
deriving from the nature of HCZ
operations and to recmnend
corrective actions
4. Energy audit            Detailed energy survey unit by unit                 Completed      MaJor recomendations iLplmented
study                  and for whole of complex indicating                                 through plant rehabilitation
Level of energy consumption and
proposing areas where energy can be
saved including proposed measures
for same inclusive related costs and
benegits
Comments:
1. Besides the above mentioned studies the preparation and,submittal of
which formed an integral part of the services to be provided by the
OMF according to the TOR contained in SAR, a number of other studies
has been prepared by the OMF during its period of employment.
A list of these studies is attached as Annex No. 1 to the present
report.
2. Besides studies prepared and performed by the OMF, major additional
studies have also been prepared and performed during the project
implementation period as follows:
a. "Rehabilitation of Rehabilitation Programme". Financial and
Economic Analysis. Nordic Consulting Group, 1990.
b. Environmental Study of Kafue Area. ChemControl A/S, 1990.



- 35 -
7. Status of Covenants
Develonment Credit Agreement
Cavcnant NoL            Brief Deacrivtion of Covenant                 COZDliZ       Remarks
Section 3.01            Borrower's cocaitment to thc project           No           The Government has only partly been
including the taking or causing to                         able to provide the necessary financial
be taken all action including                               support to NCZ during project
provision of funds. facilities,                             implementation and for the outstanding
services and other resources                               rehabilitation phases II A and II B of
necessary to enable NCZ to perform                         the Klochner plant
in accordance with the provisions of
tho Project Agreement
S*etion 4.01            Borrower's appointment of properly            Yes
qualified and *xperienced NCZ key
staff
Section 4.02            Borrower's appointment and                    Yes           During project impl=emntation period
maintenance of key committeez such                         thc Borrower has only partly been able
as Inter-Agency Fertilizer                                 to comply to this Covenant.
Coordination Comittee and the
Project Steering Comittee                                  Due to limitations with Zambian
Railways the supply of coal end
fertilizer bags to the project has been
erratic and the lack of these inputs on
site has caused a nua-bor of major plant
shutdowns. Likewise, frequent inter-
ruptions of Zoeco'z electricity supply
to the plant has also caused a series
of both technically and financially
very demaging production stops



- 36-
Proiect Aaremnent
Covenant No.             Brief Description of Covenant                  Comri.         Remarks
Financial
Covenants
Section 4.01             Auditing of NCZ's yearly accounts              Yes            Submittal of audited accounts to the
and financial statements,                                    Bank has generally been delayed
throughout the project implementation
and submittal of same together with            No            period.
Auditor's report to the Bank
Audited accounts end Auditor's report
for the Fiscal Year 90/91 not yet
received by the Bank
Section 4.02             Maintenance by NCZ of a ratio of               No             Due to NCZ's financial plight
current assets to current                                     (par.         ), it was not able to attain
liabilities of not less than 1:1 for                          the required ratioc.
Fiscal Years 1985/1986, 1986/1987
and 1:4 for the following fiscal
years
Section 4.03             Limitation of debt incurred by NCZ             No             Ditto
in relation to a minimum permissible
debt service ratio of 1:3 beginning
in the Fiscal Year 1988/1989 (lst
year after estimated completion of
rehabilitation project)
Section 4.04             Limitation of debt incurred by NCZ             No             Ditto
in relation to a minimum permissible
debt-equity ratio of 60 to 40
beginning the Fiscal Year 1985/1986
Section 4.06             Limitation of NCZ's yearly capital             yen            rntense consultation between NCZ and
investments without prior Bank                                the lank has taken place regarding
consultation, during project                                 phase II and especially II A of the
implementation period                                        project
Section 4.07             Cancellation of NCZ's rights to pay            Yes            No dividends has been declazrd by NCZ
dividends or otherwise to make
distributions through reduction of
capital during the project
implementation period without the
lBank's agreement



- 37 -
Project Asreament
Covenant No.            Brief Descriotion of Covenant                 Cozolia.      Remarks
Financial
CovenLnti
Section 4.08            NCZ to submit quarterly and other             Yes           The reports have been submitted, to a
reports to the Bank in accordance                          satisfactory  xteont, to visiting Bank
with the requirements of the latter                        missions
Other
Covenants
Section 5.01            NC2 to prepare and implement a                Yee
comprehensive training programe for
its staff in accordance with the
Bank's requirements
Section 5.02            NCZ to prepare and submit to the              Yes           The studies have been prepared and
Bank the following studies:                                major rccommendations have been
implemented.
- Environmental study
- Energy audit study
- Safety study
and implement the studies'
recom.ndations in accordance with
the Bank's views
Section 5.03            NCZ to prepare an Organisational              Yee           Study completed by end of April 1988
Restructuring Study and submit it to                        and subsequently implemented
the Bank for review and coments.
Thereupon NCZ to implement the
study's recomendations adjusted to
the Bank's views
Section 5.04            Elaboration and submittal by NCZ to           Yes           Modest coat reductions have been imple-
the Bank of yearly Plans ot Action                         mented by NCZ during project
for reducing NCZ's fixed and                               rehabilitation.
operational costs
Section 5.05            NCZ to ensure that ex factory                 Yes           FerUtilizer ex factory prices are based
fertilizer prices not later than                           on CIF coat plus a margin (of 151) and
1.4.88 are set at levels equivalent                        thus exceed the Covenant requirement.
to CIF landed costs of imported                            Adjustment of prices in consequence of
fertilizer                                                 devaluations has, however, been slow
Section 5.01            Installation by NCZ of a NOX-                 Yes           Minor modifications of the Xobo plant
sbatement unit in NCZ I before                             led to a reduction of the NX discharge
1.1.1988                                                   to a level that complied with the
international standards and
consequently the installation of an
abatement unit was cancelled



- 38 -
8.     Use of Bank Resources
A.     Staff Inputs
Stare of Proiect Cycle          Planned    Revised    Final        Comments
Through Appraisal                                        20.7
Appraisal through Board
Approval                                                 41.7
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
Supervision                                              84.1
Total                                                   162.3



- 39 -
B.     Missions
No. of     Mandays      Specialization
Staxe of Proiect Cycle     Month/Year    Persons    in Field    Represented
Through ADDraisal
Project Identification     Aug. 1983       N.A.                    N.A.
Project Pro-appraisal      Apr. 1984       4           64          Technical
Organizational
Marketing
Economic
Financial
Project Appraisal           Nov. 1984      4           N.A.        Technical
Organizational
Marketing
Economic
Financial
Appraisal through Board
Approval
Post-appraisal 1           Apr. 1985       1           4           Technical
Organizational
Post-appraisal 2           Aug-Sep. 85    1            8           Financial
Economic
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
Follow-up/Supervision       Sept. 1986     3           18          Technical
Organizational &
Training
Environ. & Safety
Supervision
Supervision                Feb. 1987       1           4           Engineer
Supervision                 Feb. 1988      1           N.A.        Engineer
Supervision                July 1988       1           8           Engineer
Supervision                Nov. 1988       1           4           Engineer



- 40 -
No. of     Mandays      Specialization
Staxe of Prolect Cvcle      Month/Year    Persons    in Field    Represented
Supervision                 Jan/Feb.89       1           10          N.A.
Supervision                 Aug. 1989        2          8            Finance
Technical
Supervision                 Nov. 1989        1           10          Finance
Supervision                 Feb/Mar 90       2          20           Finance
Technical
Supervision                 May/Jun 90       1           15          Finance
Supervision                 July 1990        1          6            Technical
Partial Supervision         Oct/Nov.90       2          5            Finance
Technical
Supervision                 April 1991       1          3            Technical
Supervision                 June 1991        1          3            Finance
Supervision                 Aug. 1991        1          5            Technical



-41 -                                  ANNEX 1
No.  STUDY/REPORT TITLE                              DATE    PREPARED BY
1    Organisational Proposal prepared by E.A.        09.86   E.A. Milano
for NCZ
2    Training Programme (TP) prepared for NCZ by   10.86   E.A. Milano
E.A.
3    NCZ's Maintenance Workshop Restructuring        08.86   Mr N. Cosenza
Proposal
4    Nitric Acid and Anmonium Nitrate Plants         09.86   Mr Bassetti
Survey
5    NCZ's Civil Maintenance Efficiency Optimi-    10.86   Mr Lombardo
zation Proposal
6    Study on Safety and Environmental Activi-       10.86   Mr Barone
ties to be Performed at NCZ Kafue Plant                Mr L. Peres
7    Energy Audit Study at NCZ Kafue Plant           11.86   E.A. Milano
8    Study for the Implementation fo NCZ Compu-    11.86  Mr,Pastore
te.rized Information System
9    Technical Report on the Examination of the    12.86   Mr M. Bassetti
Nitric Acid Production Plants
10   Suggestions Report on NCZ's Fertilizers         12.86  Mr P. Baccararii
Production
11   Audit of Plant's Safety Equipment - Propo-    2.87    Mr D. Barone
sals for Improvements                                  Mr A. Matera
12   NPK Study                                       3.87    Mr P. Baccarani
13   NCZ Electrical Maintenance Inspection Re-       3.87    Mr G. Priora
port                                                                   -|
14   Environmental Study on NCZ                      3.87    Mr L. Peres
15   Seminar on Safety held in NCZ Plant - Ka-       5.87    Mr M. Catalano
fue, Zambia                                            Mr A. Matera
16   Power Distribution - Training Course            5.87    Mr G. Priora
17   NCZ Manpower Development Project 1987-1988    6.87    Mr G. Degano
for Maintenancde, Production and Technical             ___
18   Technical Report on Compound Fertilizer         10.87  Mr S. Bascezta
Plant control in NCZ                               _
19   Introduction to NCZ Processes                   10.87   Mr G. Degano
20   Chemical Laboratory Rehabilitation Project    11.87  Mr G. Calicci-io
21   Study on Shipping and Transport                 12.87  Mr A. Carlier
22   Logistic Project for Agriculture in Zambi-    2.88    Mr F. Besana
a - Bagging Plant Rehabilitation                I__
23   Technical Study Proposal for Improvement        3.88    Mr A. Iurlo
and Modification of the Zesco Subst.



