Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwrt No. P-4117-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
'TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
February 4, 1986
TIS doc_men hL8 a resricted dtstrlibtIo ad -y be used by recipients ody in dhe perfonace of
their oflicial dud    s l nentm may not oahrwise be disclosed withou World Bank ashMorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Kwacha (K)
USSi                 K 6.0
US$0.16         =    K 1.00
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate
shown above is the rate that prevailed at
the beginning of Januarv 1986.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
l metric ton (ton, t) =       1,000 kilograms or 2,205 pounds
1 cubic meter (m3)    =       35.315 cubic feet (cf)
1 kilometer (km)       =      0.621 miles
I hectare (ha)         =      2.47 acres
MAJOR ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AN       -      Ammonium Nitrate
BOZ      -      BanIk of Zambia
DAP      -      Di-ammonium Phosphate
FRG      -      Federal Republic of Germany
GRZ      -      Government of the Republic of Zambia
INDECO   -      Industrial Development Corporation Ltd.
K20      -      Potassium Oxide Content in Fertilizer
K2S04    -      Potassium Sulfate
KCI      -      Potassium Chloride
kWh      -      kilowatt hour
MAWD     -      Ministry of Agricultn:re and Water Development
M,OF     -      Ministry of Finance
MCL      -      Maamba Collieries Ltd.
N        -      Nitrogen Content in Fertilizer
NAMBOARD -      National Agricultural Marketing Board
NCZ      -      Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia Ltd.
NH3      -      Ammonia
NOx      -      Nitrogen Oxides
OECF     -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (of Japan)
OMF      -      Operations Management Firm
P2105    -      Phosphorous Pentoxide Content in Fertilizer
ppm      -      parts per million
S        -      Sulfur Content in Fertilizer
SSP      -      Single Super Phosphate
sq km    -      Square kilometer
TSP      -      Triple Super Phosphate
tdp      -      tons per day
IJSAID    -     United States Agency for International Development
ZCcM     -      Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
ZIMCO    -      Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
NCZ: April 1 - March 31
GRZ: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary:       Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia Ltd. (NCZ)
Amount:            SDR 9.7 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
On-Lending
Terms:             The Borrower would onlend the proceeds of the credit to
NCZ for 15 years, including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 9.7 percent per annum; NCZ would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The Proiect would improve the domestic supply of
fertilizers for the development of the agriculture
sector. It would support a package of policy,
managerial, organizational, technical and financial
measures, necessary to rehabilitate NCZ to enable it to
operate its facilities efficiently and more economically
and would provide Zambia with fertilizer produced from
domestic resources at internationally competi'tive
prices. Specifically, the Project would consist of:
(i) rehabilitation of physical facilities of NCZ,
including its offsites, utilities, infrastructure and
environmental system; (ii) technical assistance for
operation and management of NCZ; and (iii) training of
NCZ staff.
Benefits and
Risks:            The Project would help restore the technical efficiency
and financial and economical viability of a key
industrial enterprise and improve the domestic supply of
fertilizers, thereby making Zambia less dependent on
uncertain imported supplies of a critical agricultural
input. It would support the country's strategy of
economic diversification, improve the balance of payments
and help develop the agriculture sector. The Project
would save Zambia about US$29 million per annum in
foreign exchange. The main risks are a) delays or
failure to carry out the envisaged policy and
institutional reforms and the technical rehabilitation,
b) inadequate availability of inputs, especially foreign
exchange and c) the technical complexity of the plant to
be rehabilitated. Given the high priority assigned to
I This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their officia! duties Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
this project by the Government and its demonstrated
willingness to implement difficult measures, it is
realistic to expect that the reforms and the technical
rehabilitation will be carried out. Ongoing efforts to
improve the performance of other key public sector
enterprises (e.g., Maamba Collieries, Zambia Railways)
and the access to foreign exchange through the recently
introduced auction system should reduce the likelihood of
serious shortage of inputs.
Estimated Cost:l/
Local     Foreign    Total
US$ Million
Engineering & License                                   3.04       3.04
Equipment & Materials                       0.30       28.14      28.44
Freight & Insurance                         0.81        3.29       4.10
Civil Work & Erection                       1.26        9.38     10.64
Spare Parts                                 -           8.43      8.43
Technical Assistance                        0.64        6.02      6.66
Training                                    0.10        0.61      0.71
Base Cost Estimates                    3.11       58.91     62.02
Physical Contingencies                      0.31        4.79       5.10
Price Contingencies                         0.35        1.78      2.13
Total Project Cost                     3.77      65.48      69.25
Incremental Working Capital                12.07        -        12.07
Interest During Construction                -           2.43      2.43
Total Financing Required                   15.84       67.91      83.75
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
--- US$ million-
IDA                                            -          10.00      10.00
OECF                                                      26.68      26.68
FRG                                            -          27.20      27.20
NCZ                                           15.84        4.03      19.87
Total                                     15.84       67.91     83.75
1/ The Project would be exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
IDA FY            86           87          88          89           90
---------------US$ Million-
Annual             1.0         2.1         2.4         2.5          2.0
Cumulative         1.0         3.1         5.5         8.0         10.0
Rate of Return:                     27 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:             Report No. 5658-ZA, dated February 4,
1986.
Map:                                No. IBRD 18861.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 9.7 million (approximately US$10
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a Fertilizer Industry
Restructuring Project. The Credit would be on-lent to Nitrogen Chemicals
of Zambia Ltd. (NCZ) for 15 years, including five years of grace, at an
interest rate of 9.7 percent per annum. NCZ would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Cofinancing is being provided by the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) and the Federal Republic Germany (FRG).
PART I -- THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings and on subsequent information received from
the Zambian authorities. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 30 and 40 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 35 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia is currently in an acute stage of economic and financial
crisis. Production has declined steadily for four consecutive years in
most sectors due to reductions in import volumes. Due in part to continued
declines in the copper price, scheduled external debt service obligations
amount to over 70 percent of export earnings. Large arrears have been
accumulated on debt servicing and commercial payments to members of the
Paris Club and the IMF. (However, all arrears to the IMF were paid in
early January 1986). In addition, disbursements of external loans have
fallen sharply due to reductions in capital expenditure by both the
Government and many public enterprises. As a result, a multi-faceted
foreign exchange constraint now grips the country and threatens to override
the positive effects of the Government's economic recovery program
initiated in 1983. To avoid this, a major coordinated effort of debt
restructuring and renewed financial flows is, required for the third time
in the last four years -- the previous reschedulings were in 1983 and 1984.



- 2 -
5.        Zambia's economic and financial problems were initiated by a
sharp decline in the copper price in 1975. Zambia's terms of trade have
deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent below the
average for the early 1970s. Real GDP has been in a general downward trend
since 1975, declining on an average by about 1.5 percent per year. With
population growing by 3.1 percent per annum, real GDP per capita is 25
percent lower than in 1974. GNP per capita was estimated at US$580 in
1983, using the World Bank Atlas methodology, but is now much lower as a
result of major devaluations of the Kwacha in 1984 and after the
introduction of the foreign exchange auctionings in October 1985.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibriu, since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. Nevertheless, the volume of imports declined steadily and
is now 50 percent below its level in 1980 and 75 percent below its level in
1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe under-
utilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure that has contributed
directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports. In 1985,
copper exports fell to their lowest level (480,000 tonnes) since Zambia's
independence. The current level of imports is now inadequate to sustain
copper production and to provide a critical minimum for the rest of the
economy to function efficiently. The large current account deficits have
also led directly to Zambia's high level of external indebtedness. At the
end of 1984, Zambia's total external liabilities stood at US$4.4 billion,
including drawings from the IMF (US$740 million) and US$500 million in
overdue comunercial payments. By comparison, exports of goods and services
amounted to somewhat over US$900 million.
7.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. A
new mineral export tax was introduced in 1983, however, which now
contributes about 10 percent of Government's revenue. Deficit financing
absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and contributed to a sharp
rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per annum during 1976-78 and
12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases have acce'lerated in 1983
and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting the decontrol of prices
in December 1982 and the devaluations of the Kwacha during the past two
years. Currently, the inflation is running at an annual rate of about 75
percent while the economy has been adjusting to the sharp increase in the
dollar parity of the Kwacha from 2.2 prior to the introduction of the
foreign exchange auctioning to 5.7 at present.
8.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, severe droughts over three consecutive years have necessitated
substantial food imports. Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and
shortcomings in economic management have exacerbated the economic
difficulties. The main deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i)
pricing and subsidy policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of
the agricultural producer; also, controlled industrial prices led to low



profitability in the manufacturing sector; (ii) tax incentives and low
interest rates led to a pattern of capital intensive investment; (iii)
exchange rate and tariff policies encouraged the use of artificially cheap
imported raw materials and other inputs As a result, a highly capital ar.d
import-intensive productive structure was created that proved to be very
vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of foreign exchange.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
9.        Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the absence
of new sources of income, employment and foreign exchange, Zambia may
expect a drastic fall in living standards and social well-being by the turn
of the century. However, Zambia has the potential to develop alternative
sources of income, employment, and exports. The greatest potential is in
agriculture, where there are opportunities for import substitution (cotton,
oilseeds, livestock, grains, forestry products, and fish) and for exports
(beef, cotton, coffee, tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start
is made with agricultural development, possibilities will be created for
agro-based industries.
10.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance be restored in the economy.
As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a major
role to play. For this reason, in 1984, the Bank approved an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project which aims to increase the
efficiency of the mining industry and make it competitive again by
international standards. This project was accompanied by an agreement on
changes that would be needed in macro-economic and sector policies in order
to restructure and diversify the rest of the economy.
11.       The Government, with Bank and Fund assistance, has developed a
wide-ranging package of economic restructuring policies that may be
summarized as follows:
-- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which production is
responsive to market forces;
-- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy;
- Using tariffs and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of import dependence and capital intensity;
-- Liberalizing administrative restrictions on foreign trade and
the licensing of production, in order to improve the
allocation of resources and to encourage investment in
productive activities;



-4-
-- Reducing the Government's deficit and recourse to domestic
bank borrowing by reducing expenditure on personnel costs,
subsidies and other non-development related activities;
-- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shif'. resources
to productive uses and economic investments;
Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
-- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
-- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil.
12.       In the past two years, the Government has made significant
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. Stand-by
arrangements were agreed with the rMF in 1983 and 1984. Under these
programs, the Kwacha was linked to a basket of currencies and was
depreciated in a gradual manner by more than 60 percent (in foreign
exchange terms) through October 1985 when the foreign exchange auctioning
was introduced (paragraph 17). Because the Government has been successful
in holding wage increases to considerably less than rises in the cost of
living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real terms, which
has improved the competitiveness of exports. Debt rescheduling with
members of the Paris Club, commercial banks and non-OECD governments was
also obtained.
13.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. But other measures with significant long-term impact have
been introduced as well. In December 1982, the Government abolished the
control of all wholesale and retail prices except for three essential
commodities: wheat flour, maize flour and candles. Most recently, the
price of wheat flour and bread was also decontroled. Over the last three
years, producer prices for most agricultural crops have been increased
considerably in real terms. The Government has also improved the
incentives affecting foreign trade by introducing a foreign exchange
retention scheme and concessional tax rates for non-traditional exports,
and by imposing a minimum tariff on many non-dutiable imports which should
reduce the high rates of effective protection afforded to import-intensive
industries.
14.       The Government's efforts over the past two years represent a
major reformulation of economic policies and incentives. This progress is
currently in danger of being set back, however, due to insufficient foreign



-5-
exchange to maintain production (and exports) and to honor external debt
obligations. On one hand, the Government wishes to improve the supply of
essential consumer goods and thus show some benefits from the considerable
sacrifices its policies have required of the population. In particular, a
rapid increase in the consumer price of maize (resulting from higher
producer prices, drought induced imports and lower subsidies) has
heightened the political sensitivity of further reforms that result in
higher prices for other goods and services. On the other hand, the
Government must allocate considerable foreign exchange to debt service that
cannot be rescheduled.
15.       In facing this dilemma, the Government has adopted a foreign
exchange auction system in recognition of the need for greater efficiency
in the allocation of these resources. This should also help mobilize
additional foreign exchange into the official market from unrecorded
exports and from official development agencies that would be willing to
support such a significant policy change with quickly disbursing
assistance. However, this strategy risks uprooting a hard-won political
concensus that the economic reform program must continue. Against the hope
that additional foreign exchange resources will materialize, the
Government's decision to adopt an auction system is being taken with the
clear expectation that higher prices will inevitably follow further
depreciation of the Kwacha. Indeed, petroleum prices doubled following the
first auction where the rate jumped from K2.2 to K5.0 per US dollar. It is
therefore essential that additional foreign exchange resources be made
available for the new system to work and for an increase in production to
occur, in order to expand the supply of basic consumer goods and minimize
upward pressure on prices. Along with the new system, the Government has
introduced a wide range of supporting measures, including decontrol of
interest rates, conversion of the import licensing system to one of import
registration, and further measures to reduce government expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system.
Creditworthiness
16.       Scheduled service on public avd publicly guaranteed (PPG)
external debt will remain over US$400 m  lion per annum for the next three
years, or about 40 percent of export ear. ngs at today's copper prices. Of
this amount, about US$65 million per annum is due to the World Bank Group,
including the IFC. (The Bank currently holds USS430 million, or 15 percent
of Zambia's US$2.8 billion PPG debt disbursed and outstanding). In
addition, about US$200 million per annum in payments is due to the IMF and
another USS50-70 million per annum on Zambia's pipeline of commercial
psyment arrears and short-term borrowings. In total, then, scheduled debt
service will amount to over US$700 million per annum for the next three
years, and it will thus be necessary for the Government to continue its
financial stabilization policies in cooperation with the IMF and to seek
debt relief through further rescheduling. Even with maximum debt relief,
however, Zambia will continue to owe over US$400 million per annum in debt
service that cannot be rescheduled. The Government should, therefore,
avoid as much as possible borrowing on commercial terms, and additional
borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.



- 6 -
17.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government is well underway in
adjusting its economic policies and is fully committed to take further
steps towards economic reform and the restructuring of Zambia's productive
industries. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and adequate external assistance, Zambia could achieve a
reasonable measure of export growth and diversification in 10 to 12 years
and reduce its ovLrall debt service ratio to 30 percent of exports.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
18.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 14 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$780 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and six
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrial forest plantations,
livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production,
suallholder dairy development and fisheries development. Agricultural
projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder
farmers, and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is providing inputs to
the sector in support of policy reforms. Other loans have assisted
Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and
industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and project preparation.  An engineering
credit is supporting a project to assess the rehabilitation requirements of
the TANZAMA oil pipeline.
19.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$87 million in 11 projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments each
were in shoe manufacturing, in a packaging materials plant and in textiles
and fiber production, and one each in the Development Bank of Zambia,
tourism development, food production and processing, cobalt production,
and copper production.
20.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural



- 7 -
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
21.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. As of September 30, 1985 a total of US$87 million of loans and
US$128 million of credits remained undisbursed. To alleviate the problem,
provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to strengthen
implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission in
monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established under
new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. In Lddition, estimates of counterpart
funds required and when the funds should be made available are being
prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their need to allow
implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan for these
expenditures. As of December 1984, IBRD loans disbursed and outstanding
were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term debt disbursed
and outstanding.
22.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project and
the Industrial Reorientation Project are focusing on improving sector
policies in agriculture and industry, which are the sectors with the best
potential for production and export growth and for employment creation.
The Group's strategy also gives priority to programs to increase the use of
indigenous energy resources and to raise the efficiency of transportation
services. Emphasis will be given to rehabilitation and maintenance, rather
than expansion, of infrastructure and Bank Group assistance is expected to
include a significant proportion of quick-disbursing resources. Support
for addressing the longer term development constraints, e.g., improving
economic management, education, population, health, etc., is also part of
the strategy.  Policy and institutional reform programs in each of the
sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the
Government. Through organizing and chairing the regular meetings of the
Consultative Group for Zambia, the Bank is assisting the Government in
coordinating the country's economic rehabilitation program and investment
needs with the international donor community. At its last meeting, which
was convened on an emergency basis in December 1985, the Consultative Group
endorsed the Government's recent economic measures, in particular the
foreign exchange auction system, and announced substantial multi- and
bilateral financial support for the Government's program.



-8-
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
Africulture
23.       Agriculture supports about 60 percent of Zambia's population, but
accounts for only about 14 percent of GDP. The mining sector, which has
traditionally dominated the Zambian economy, accounting for an overwhelming
proportion of Government revenues and foreign exchange earnings, has
stagnated in recent years and is facing a long-term decline. Further
economic growth therefore needs to be driven by the agricultural sector,
which has a large untapped potential; only about 12 million (28%) of the
estimated 43 million hectares (ha) of cult-Loble land is cultivated.
Despite the country's sizeable resource base for agricultural development
(in terms of land, climate, water and human resources), the sector has
stagnated in recent years, the result of a combination of factors.
Budgetary allocations to agriculture have been inadequate, in particular to
support research and extension, sectoral planning (of both policies and
programs) has been weak and ill-conceived marketing and pricing policies
have caused severe distortions in the sector and reduced producer
incentives. The effects of these distortions and inadequate agricultural
inputs and services have been compounded by a shortage of agricultural
credit and weaknesses in agricultural credit institutions. Lack of timely
availability of fertilizer has on many occasions adversely impacted on
agricultural productivity. In addition, the country has been subject to
periodic drought cycles. As a result, agricultural sector output has risen
at an average annual rate of only about 2.4 percent (in the period
1965-83), slower than the population growth rate (3.1%) in the same
period. Since 1983, however, the sector has shown some positive tendency
toward faster growth as a result of the Government's efforts to promote
agriculture development through (i) policy and institutional reforms; and
(ii) allocating increased financial resources to the sector.
24.       Zambia's agricultural sector is markedly dualistic.  On one side,
a relatively modern sector of about 24,000 heavily-capitalized medium- and
large-scale commercial farmers, representing 4 percent of the estimated
600,000 farm households, produce in value about 40 percent of the maize and
55 percent of the other marketed agricultural products. On the other
extreme, there are about 456,000 farm families, or about 76 percent of the
farm households, cultivating an average of 2 hectare (ha), using family
labor and simple hand tools and producing mostly for subsistence purposes.
This dualic, has been slightly mitigated in recent years by the development
of a smallholder market-oriented farming sector, numbering about 120,000 or
20 percent of the farm households. These farmers use modest levels of
mechanization aad purchased seasonal inputs, especially fertilizers, and
together with occasional surpluses from traditional farmers, currently
account for 60 percent of the value of marketed maize, 85 percent of the
value of sunflower seeds and nearly all sales of domestically produced
rice, seed cotton and groundnuts.
25.       The major imported agricultural goods have been cereals (mainly
wheat and rice), dairy products, and vegetable oil and oilseed cakes. The



- 9 -
decline in food self-sufficiency is a reflection of slow growth in
agricultural productivity under conditions of rapid population growth.
26.       The Government has recognized the need of pursuing a long-term
strategy which would develop the country's agricultural potential, in
particular by promoting small-scale farming, and is evaluating with Bank
assistance, appropriate changes in existing agricultural policies and in
institutions currently responsible for managing and servicing agriculture.
The major objectives of these reforms would be (i) to improve institutional
and allocative efficiency in the sector, in particular through better
pricing and marketing; and (ii) to improve the farm technological base,
including more effective use of fertilizers.
Fertilizer Consumption
27.       The range of fertilizer products currently in use in Zambia is
principally limited to ammonium nitrate. urea and six formulations of NPK
compound fertilizers. Concerns that the eurrent fertilizer usage pattern
and recommendations may not be fully appropriate in view of the needs of
the diverse soil and crop conditions faced by the Zambian farmers are
currently under review by the Government. The authorities are aware of the
need to develop fertilizer application recommendations based on updated
on-field research programs and to make these more specific as to location,
climate, soil and cropping patterns. The Bank is currently assisting the
Government in the effort to reorganize research and extension services and
develop action programs that are more problem and farm-oriented.
28.       Fertilizer consumption in Zambia increased at an average annual
rate of about 3.4 percent between 1975-1983. Consumption peaked in 1981
at 85,000 tpy of nutrient, of which 68 percent was nitrogen, 25 percent
phosphate and 7 percent potash. The current fertilizer application rate in
Zambia averages about 16 kg/ha, compared to 65 kg/ha in Zimbabwe, 26 kg/ha
in Kenya and 18.4 kg/ha for the whole of Africa. Large disparities exist
in fertilizer use among commercial farmers, whose consumption levels range
between 100 and 230 kg nutrient/ha, and smallholders, where fertilizer
consumption is still very low, partly due to inadequate research and
extension services. The Government is taking action to improve its
research and extension services in view of the importance of developing the
smallholder sector to exploit fully the country's agricultural potential.
Fertilizer Supply
29.       Zambia obtains its fertilizer supplies both from domestic
production at NCZ's facilities (ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate and NPK
compounds) and from imports of urea, NPK compounds, TSP and SSP. If the
NCZ facilities were able to operate at full capacity, they could meet about
90 percent of the country's current nitrogen requirements. At present,
however, the company's output is limited for technical and operational
reasons and represents only about 25 percent of the country's needs.
30.       Imported fertilizers are procured through commercial imports and
bilateral aid. In recent years, part of the bilateral assistance has



- 10 -
shifted to the Import of phosphate and potash intermediates for use by
NCZ. As a result, the amount of finished fertilizers ohtained through
bilateral aid programs has declined dramatically from about 96,000 tons In
1979 to 6,000 tons in 1983.
Prolected Fertilizer Consumption Growth Rates
31.       Under conservative assumptions average annual fertilizer
consumption growth rates are projected for nitrogen and phosphate at 0.9
percent p.a. between 1985-1995 and for potash at 0.5 percent between
1985-1995. On this basis, total nutrient annual consumption in Zambia is
proiected at About 90,000 tons in 1995, of which 68 percent will be
nitrogen, 25 percent phosphate and 7 percent potash. Because of the
widening of the gap between consumption and local production, rehabilitated
NCZ complex will meet only about 75 percent of nitrogen demand at that
time, versus the present 90 percent if the plant were able to operate at
full capacity. No future expansion of coal-based nitrogen fertilizer
facilities is foreseeable in Zambia, as grass-root investment costs for
building such type of plants have become too high to make new operations
economically viable.
Fertilizer Pricing
32.       In Zambia, the producer price of the maize is controlled by the
Government and floor prices are set for all other important agricultural
products. Consumer prices have been decontrolled recently, with the
exception of maize. Fertilizer retail prices are also controlled by the
Government.
33.       For many years, the Government pursued an agricultural policy
whi-h maintained crop prices low through, inter alia, the subsidizing of
fertilizer prices. Until 1982, crop producer prices remained substantially
below border-price equivalents, and crop retail prices were below the total
of production and marketing costs; as a result, subsidies to the consumers
mounted. Fertilizer retail prices also remained below their landed costs,
i.e., the cost of imported fertilizers cif Lusaka not including
distribution costs within Zambia. In 1980, the urea retail price was 58
percent of its landed cost. With increasing economic difficulties, the
Government recognized the need to modify its agricultural pricing policy
towards the principle of full cost recovery. By November 1984, all crop
consumer prices were decontrolled, except that of maize, and fertilizer
retail prices have been substantially increased to reflect their landed
cost. In both 1983 and 1984, the retail price of urea was pegged at its
landed cost equivalent, and the retail prices of NPK compound fertilizers
were set at levels about 20 percent higher than their landed cost.
34.       NCZ's ex-factory prices have in the past substantially exceeded
both their equivalent CIF landed cost and the corresponding retail prices.
However, with the increase in retail prices in recent years, the ex-factory
prices of NPK compounds, which were about 104 percent higher than the
retail prices in 1981, are now only 25 percent higher. While retail prices
have been increased faster than ex-factory prices, the gap between NCZ's



- 11 -
ex-factory prices and equivalent CIF landed cost has been widening due to:
(i) depressed international markets for NPK compounds, resulting in lower
prices; and (ii) decline In operating performance of NCZ and as a result
the need for price increases to cover at least partially Its increasing
production costs, which are currently about 20 percent higher than the
ex-factory prices. Thts trend, however, has reversed since 1985, due to
the progressive devaluation of the Kwacha. The present NCZ ex-factory as
well as retail prices are below equivalent cif landed cost. In January
1986, the ex-factorv price of AN and compounds was increased to ZK
1,300/ton and the retail prices are expected to follow suit to bring them
closer to cif cost. The Project would reduce the NCZ's cost of production
by more than 30%, making its products competitive with imported
fertilizers, while allowing NCZ to earn adequate return on investment.
35.       At the present level of retail prices, fertilizer distribution
costs are not fully passed on to the farmer.   They are borne partly by the
Government in the form of contributions to NAMBOARD to meet its
distribution and storage costs and to the Cooperatives to cover their
fertilizer marketing costs. Both NAMBOARD and the Cooperatives are
inefficient in marketing and distributing fertilizer. The Government has
recently taken up steps, with Bank support, which will lead to full cost
recovery, while improving fertilizer marketing and distribution.
36.       Although fertllizers represent the sinzle major input cost for
farmers, about 30 percent of the production cost, the past trends in crop
and fertilizer prices have not significantly affected the economics of
fertilizer application. The ratio of nitrogen to maize prices has remained
at reasonably satisfactory levels, though inadequate adjustment to crop
prices when fertilizer prices increased, had on occasion discouraged
fertilizer application.
37.       At present, the transport and handling of imported fertilizers
result in heavy losses. In addition, because of improper procurement
procedures and foreign exchange shortages, fertilizers have often arrived
after the application period has ended. When this happens they have to be
stored for the next season resulting in heavy losses, high storage costs,
and need for partial rebagging due to caking. Rehabilitation of NCZ
will ensure a reliable local source of fertilizer, thereby reducing these
risks and costs.
Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
38.       The Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia Ltd. (NCZ), a direct subsidiary
of ZIMCO l/ is the sole fec-tilizer producer in Zambia. The company was
established in September 1967 to operate a coal based ammonium nitrate
plant at Kafue (some 30 km from Lusaka) mainly to produce explosive grade
ammonium nitrate and nitric acid for further processing into blasting
I/ As of April 1, 1985. It was previously a subsidiary of the Industrial
Development Corporation.



- 12 -
agents for the mining industry. As it was clear from the beginning that
the production of these items alone would not support an economically sized
plant, the scope of the operation was expanded to include the production of
ammonium nitrate for use as fertilizer. The facilities were further
expanded in 1982 to expand ammonium nitrate production and initiate the
production of NPK compounds. The present facility consists of two plants,
plus ancillary infrastructure and utilities, with design capacity of
262,000 tpy in total product.
39.       In the past few years, NCZ has encountered a wide range of
problems, such as major design/technical deficiencies in NCZ II plant,
shortages of the principal feedstock, coal, due to operational problems at
Maamba Collieries and Zambia Railways; shortages of foreign exchange,
preventing timely purchase of spare parts, catalysts and chemicals, bags
and raw materials; inadequate management; lack of technical expertise; poor
operational and maintenance practices; and overstaffing. As a result,
capacity utilization at NCZ has declined progressively to the present level
of under 30 percent, resulting in production costs substantially higher
than internationally competitive levels. Although some of the company's
problems have been due to Zambia's difficult economic situation, most of
the difficulties began with the construction of the NCZ II plant. The
expansion project, which encountered long completion delays and never
operated well due to major design problems, strained NCZ's organization and
management capabilities, intensified the shortage of technical expertise
and drained the company's financial resources. This affected the
performance of the NCZ I plant as well, which had otherwise been operating
efficiently. Both plants now require major rehabilitation to restore their
technical integrity and to enable them to achieve their original design
capacities.
Financial Performance
40.       After initial losses, NCZ made profits during 1976-80.  Since
then, however, problems associated with the NCZ II plant - heavy debt
burden, high fixed costs and low capacity utilization - have affected the
company's financial situation and heavy losses have occured. In 1982-84,
these losses averaged K 19 million per annum and had reached K 30 million
in FY1984/85.
41.       The Government made an initial equity contribution to NCZ of K 10
million in 1970, which has been increased over time to K 175.4 million
partly through the conversion to equity of company debt taken over by
Government and passing on as equity some external assistance. Debt
outstanding rose from K 12.5 million at the end of FY1970/71 to K 243.2
million at the end of 1979/80, after which, due to debt relief provided by
Government, it fell to K 127.1 million in FY1984/85.
42.       Clearly, the measures taken over the past several years to
strengthen NCZ's finances have not been adequate, primarily because they
have not dealt with the fundamental problems facing the company, i.e.,
management, technical design deficiencies of NCZ II, etc.  The proposed
project includes, inter alia, comprehensive measures to restructure NCZ's



- 13 -
finances, improve its management and technically redesign and rehabilitate
the company's facilities. With these actions taken, NCZ is expected to
recover its financial viability.
Experience From Past Lending
43.       The Bank Group has had no previous involvement in lending to the
fertilizer secto-.. However, the Bank has been involved in the related
sectors of industry and agriculture. In the industrial sector, the Bank's
lending in Zambia has been primarily to the Development Bank of Zambia, a
development finance company. The major lessons learnt in this operation
relate to the Issues of management, enterprise, and institutional
coordination. The proposed project has fully considered these experiences
and has incorporated measures to strengthen NCZ's management and improve
inter-agency coordination. The main lessons learned from Bank Group
lending to the agriculture sector, such as the need for policy and
institutional reforms, marketing and distribution problems, economic
pricing, and lack of farmer services, have also been taken into account in
designing the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
44.       The Project was identified in August 1983 and appraised in
November 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in August 1985
with a Zambian delegation led by Mr. F.M. Siame, Senior Undersecretary,
Ministry of Finance.  A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5658-ZA, dated February
4, 1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A
credit and project summary is presented at the beginning of this report and
a supplementary project data sheet is in Annex III.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
45.       The main obiective of the Project is to improve the domestic
production of fertilizer at import parity prices. To accomplish this, the
Proiect aims to restore the technical efficiency and economic and financial
viability of NCZ's operations through a package of appropriate policy,
managerial, organizational, technical and financial measures. Specifically
the Project consists of the following components:
Physical Support
(a) technical rehabilitation of the NCZ I Plant: to be carried out by
the Japanese firm that originally built this plant, the
rehabilitation includes: (1) the replacement, repair and overhaul
of existing equipment, including any design and engineering
required; and (ii) an initial supply of spare parts for this
plant, and supervision of start-up operations. No major



- 14 -
modifications are required to this plant, whtch has operated
efficiently in the past, but there Is considerable need for
replacement and overhaul of equipment. Most of this work is
required in the ammonium unit and tn the nitric acid and ammonia
nitrate units. The water treatment plant will be revamped and a
pollution abatement system will be instnlled.
(b) technical rehabilitation of the NCZ II Plant: to be carried out
by the German firm that originally built the plant, the
rehabilitation includes: (1) repairs and improvements to the
water cooling, steam condensate and power supply systems, (ii)
improvements to the nitrogen system and the liquid nitrogen wash
unit, (iii) revamping the coal storage and handling section, the
instrument air system, the gasification section, the water
scrubbing system, the carbon monoxide conversion unit, the
ammonia synthests unit, and the air separation unit, (iv)
modification to the electrostatic precipitators, (v) replacement
of heat exchanges in the rectisol unit, and (vi) connecting the
rectisol unit to the sulfuric acid unit. Limited modifications
will also be carried out to the nitric acid and ammonium nitrate
units. Pollution control equipment will be installed to bring
emission levels in the nitric acid plant to international
standards.
(c) rehabilitation of off-site and infrastructure facilities:
including; (i) a new coal-based boiler to balance the steam
system; (ii) a closed loop system to recover accidental discharge
of AN solution; (iti) rehabilitation of the water treatment
plant; (iv) rehabilitation of workshop facilities and upgrading
of laboratory facilities; (v) computerization; and (vi) vehicles
for internal handling of materials. NCZ would conduct by
September 30, 1986 an energy audit study, an environmental study
and a full safety study of its operations to Identify energy
conservatlon potential and possible environmental/health hazards
and recommendations of these studies will be implemented by NCZ
in consultation with IDA.
Technical Assistance and Training:
(d) Operations Management Services: an experienced Operations
Management Firm (OMF) has been hired, following Bank/IDA
Guidelines, to assist NCZ from October 1985 to December 1989 to
(i) operate the complex, (ii) conduct a comprehensive review of
NCZ's organizational structure and staffing pattern and recommend
and help implement changes, (ii) coordinate and supervise the
technical rehabilitation, (iii) introduce modern management
techniques, operational and maintenance procedures and a
management information system, and (v) provide on-the-job and
formal training to NCZ staff to enable them to operate the
company efficiently after OMF's departure. OMF will provide the
General Manager, Production Manager, Technical Manager,



- 15 -
Maintenance Manager, Personnel and Administration Manager,
Technical Coordinator and some 12 other middle level experts as
required, ahout 423 man-months of services in all. OMF will, by
March 31. 1986, carry out an organizational restructuring study
to review NCZ organizational structure and constraints and
recommend changes necessary to provide NCZ with a dynamic and
responsive organizatlon and optimum staffing level . Recommenda-
tions of the study will he implemented In consultation with IDA.
The core of IDA's involvement in the Project Is the policy and
Institutional improvements which are critical to ensure efficient operation
of the facilities once their physical integrity ts restored. Consequently,
IDA will finance the services of the OMF. The OMF will be delegated full
authority to manage the plant and will he responsible to the Managing
Director of NCZ. OMF management contract will be subject to annual
performance reviews to ensure better performance. IDA component of the
Project will also include limited provision of funds for (i) upgrading of
workshop, offsites, and environmental and laboratory factlities; (Ii)
vehicles for internal handling of matertals; (tii) computer facilittes; and
(iv) chemicals and catalysts. Training of NCZ staff will be performed
under FRG, OECF and IDA components; FRG and OECF training of selected NCZ
staff will be carried out abroad and will be directed towards improving
operational and maintenance related skills of NCZ staff. Under the
proposed IDA credit, formal and on-the-job training will be performed by
OMF at NCZ's plant and will be directed mainly at middle-level managerial
and supervisory positions. In addition, the IDA Credit includes provision
(80 man-months) for training abroad for selected high and middle level
staff in technical, financial and managerlal aspects of the business. As
part of the policy and institutional reforms, GRZ and NCZ would:
(a) restructure NCZ's management and organization to provide NCZ with
a strong and dynamic management with requisite autonomy and
authority and a sound organizational structure capable of
responding to the company's needs;
(b) undertake improvements (technical, managerial, etc.) to reduce
NCZ's operating costs by about 30%;
(c) adopt a system of economic pricing of NCZ's products based on
import parity prices to ensure NCZ's economic viability;
(d)  carry out financial restructuring of NCZ to restore Its financial
integrity; and
(e) restructure the logistics sytem to improve movement of NCZ's
inputs and fertilizers.
NCZ has already completed most of these measures, including its financial
restructuring as well as a substantial reduction of Its staff (from 1,580
to 1,270).



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Total financing required for the Project incluiding physical and
price contingencies, incremental working capital and interest during
construction amounts to US$83.75 million equivalent, including US$67.91
million equivalent, or 81 percent, in foreign exchange. Fnr the equipment
and materials included under the IDA component, phystcal conttngencies are
calculated at 10 percent of the base cost estimate, and price escalation
for equipment under the IDA component is based on expected international
annual inflation rates of 7.2 percent in 1986, 6.8 percent in 1987-88 and
7.0 percent in 1989. Annual price escalat{on of 7 percent based on the
terms of OMF contract has heen used for IDA financed technical assistance
services. Fir OECF and FRG financed components actual physical and price
contingency estimates given In respective contractor proposals have been
used. The Project includes foreign consultant services for about 580
man/months for operations management, coordination of and technical
assistance for tecnnical rehabilitation, and supervision of training at a
total cost of about US$6.3 million.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would cover about 15
percent of the total foreign exchange requirement. The remaining foreign
exchange needs would be met by NCZ from internal funds (US$4.03 million),
by OECF (US$26.68 million equivalent) for the rehabilitation of NCZ I
plant, and hy FRG (US$27.20 million equivalent) for the rehabilitation of
NCZ II plant. Fulfillment of the conditions of disbursement of the FRG
loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The local
cost (US$15.84 million equivalent) will be met by NCZ's own resources. NCZ
is capable to meet its financing requirements foillowing its financial
restructuring and Its cash flow situatton is expected to become sound from
1987 onwards, the first year of operation of the rehabilitated plant, as a
result of the Project. Nevertheless, asssurances have been obtained from
GRZ that It would provide NCZ with any additional funds that might be
needed during project implementation.
On-Lending Arrangements
48.       The IDA Credit of US$10 million equivalent will be onlent by the
Government to NCZ at an onlending rate of 9.7 percent p.a. 2/ to be repaid
over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk will
be born by NCZ. The OECF loan has been made to the Government at an
interest rate of 3.5 percent p.a. with a maturity of 30 years including 10
years of grace and the Government has passed on these funds to NCZ as
equity to strengthen NCZ's equity base. The FRG loan has been made to the
Government at 2 percent p.a. interest with 30 years maturity including 10
years of grace, and will be passed on to NCZ at an Interest rate of 10
percent with a maturity of 15 years including 5 years of grace; NCZ will
bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan
2/ One-tenth above the IBRD lending rate of 8.82 percent prevailing at the
time of negotiations.



- 17 -
Agreement between the Government and NCZ, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and effectiveness of the FRG loan, will be
conditions of Credit Effectiveness.
Project Implementation
49.       NCZ will have primary responsibility for overall Project manage-
ment. Assurances have been obtained from GRZ that it will appoint and
retain to the positions of Chairman and members of the Board of Directors
of NCZ, and the Managing Director, General Manager, Finance Director, and
internal Auditor, only persons with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Association, and that NCZ will remain a direct
subsidiary of ZIMCO. Technical rehabilitation of the NCZ I and NCZ II
plants will be the turn-key responsibility, respectively, of the Japanese
and German contractors. Signature of the engineering contract for
rehabilitation of the NCZ II plant would be a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA Credit. Technical Advisors appointed under the OECF and FRG
components of the Project will monitor the technical work of NCZ I and NCZ
II plants, respectively. NCZ, through OMF's Technical Coordinator, will
coordinate and supervise the overall technical rehabilitation work. The
engineering, procurement and installation work related ta rehabilitation of
off-sites will be carried out directly by NCZ under the direct supervision
of the Technical Coordinator. A Project Steering Committee has been
established, including representatives of NCZ, ZIDCO and MOF, to facilitate
processing of the policy and finance related measures outside NCZ's control
and to oversee overall Project implementation . An Inter-Agency Fertilizer
Coordination Committee has been established to ensure effective operational
coordination among NCZ, Maamba Collieries, Zambia Railways, TAZARA Railways
and NAMBOARD to coordinate timely coal and other input delivery in quantity
and quality required by NCZ, as well as timely offtake of NCZ's output.
Assurances have been obtained from GRZ that it will not alter the
composition and functions of the Project Sreering Committee and the
Inter-Agency Fertilizer Coordination Committee. Also, GRZ has given
assurances that adequate supplies of coal, pyrites and electricity will be
made available to enable NCZ to operate its facilities at full capacity.
50.       NCZ's management and staff, once strengthened through the
presence of the OMF team, are considered capable of implementing the
Project efficiently. The physical rehabilitation of NCZ I and NCZ II
plants is expected to be completed by July 1986 and December 1987,
respectively. The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
51.       The Project includes provisions for a comprehensive training
program for NCZ staff to equip them with necessary skills required to
operate the plant efficiently; the program will be developed by NCZ with
the help of the OMF by June 30, 1986 for review with IDA and subsequent
implementation.
Reporting and Auditing
52.       NCZ will maintain separate records and accounts for all
activities related to the financing of items under the proposed project.



- 18 -
The accounts and financial statements will he audited by auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year. NCZ will also submit to the Association
quarterly financial statements and project progress and procurement status
reports on the total Project within 60 days after the end of each quarter.
NCZ will also provide by December 31 of each year, for review by IDA, an
Annual Plan of Action for reducing its fixed and operational costs.
Finally, within six months of the closing date of the credit, NCZ will
submit to the Association a Project Completion Report on the project
implementation, and its costs and expected benefits.
Future Financial Performance
53.       As a result of the Project, the financial performance of the
company is expected to improve significantly and NCZ would generate profits
from 1986 onwards. The financial situation of NCZ is expected to remain
satisfactory throughout the Project life, and the company is expected to
generate cash sufficient to more than meet its debt service requirements.
NCZ would, by December 31 of each year, submit to IDA for review and
approval a detailed action plan on cost reduction measures. Assurances
have been obtained that NCZ will (a) by April 1, 1986 set its ex-factory
prices of fertilizers equivalent to CIF landed cost; (b) maintain its debt
service coverage ratio of not less than 1.3 beginning 1988/89; (c) maintain
a current ratio of at least 1.1 during 1985/86 to 1986/87 and 1.4
thereafter; (d) maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than 60:40; (e)
not declare any dividends on its paid-in capital during the execution of
the project; and (f) not undertake any expansion program (over US$2 million
annually) without prior consultation with the Association.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
IDA         FRG    OECF    NCZ    Total
ICB/LIT   Other
Equipment & Materials          3.30     0.90   18.73   20.23   3.03   46.19
Civil Works & Erection          -        -       5.20    4.70   1.50   11.40
Engineering & License           -        -       1.91    1.35    -       3.26
Technical Assistance                    5.30    1.30    0.35   0.74    7.69
Training                        -       0.50    0.06    0.05   0.10    0.71
TOTAL               3.30     6.70   27.20   26.68   5.37   69.25
IDA's component of the Project consists mainly of provision of operations
management services, amounting to US$5.3 million equivalent. A limited
supply of equipment and materials (amounting at US$4.2 million equivalent)



- 19 -
and training expenses for NCZ staff (US$0.5 million) will also be funded.
Consultants for the Operations Management Services to be financed by IDA
have been contracted in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement of
foreign goods and services for the IDA component will be carried out by NCZ
under the supervision of the Technical Coordinator of OMF. Equipment and
materials totaling US$4.2 million to be financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with IDA procurement guidelines through international
competitive bidding (ICB) and limited international tendering (LIT), except
for (i) proprietary items which may be procured through direct purchasing;
and (ii) orders for small and miscellaneous items under contracts with an
estimated value of up to US$100,000 each which may be procured through
international shopping with at least three price quotations from three
countries. The aggregate of such contracts procured under the above
exception to ICB and LIT procedures will not exceed US$600,000 equivalent
for direct purchasing and US$300,000 equivalent for international
shopping. All contracts for goods procured under ICB totaling about
US$2.40 million will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval; LIT
contracts will be subject to IDA's post review.
55.       To enable the Project to be implemented on schedule, IDA has
provided up to US$250,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
finance eligible expenditures incurred between the date of completion of
appraisal (November 1984) and the date of the credit. Items to be financed
under the PPF include the down payment and other expenses related to
Initiation of the operations management consultancy services.
56.       The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed against (i) 100
percent of expenditures for directly imported goods and 80 percent for
locally-procured imported goods; (it) 100 percent of the cost of
consultants; and (iii) 100 percent of the cost of training for NCZ staff;
and (iv) the amount due for reimbursement, under the PPF advance.
Disbursements will be made against full documentation except for
reimbursements for overseas training and contract valued less than
US$20,000 equivalent, each of which would be made against Statements of
Expenditure. A special account (revolving fund) in the amount of
SDR 150,000 will be set up to meet expenditures for the purchase of
equipment and materials and training. The credit closing date will be
December 31, 1990.
Environmental Impact
57.       The Project will have a major beneficial impact on the
environmental situation of the Kafue area as it will provide for (i)
control of solid waste disposal; (ii) treatment of liquid effluents before
discharge; and (iii) reduction of nitrogen oxides emitted into the
atmosphere. Consequently, liquid and gaseous effluents levels compatible
with international standards will be achieved. Moreover, assurances have
been obtained that NCZ will (i) rehabilitate, operate and maintain the
facilities in accordance with environmental and safety standards
satisfactory to IDA; (;i) carry out by September 30, 1986, an environmental
study to review in detail all aspects related to solid waste and liquid
effluent disposal and recommend appropriate measures as required and a



- 20 -
safety study to identify major accident hazards that could arise, and
indicate existing arrangement and additional measures to be adopted to
prevent them or limit their damages.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The Project meets Zambia's objective of achieving optimal
performance of existing industrial facilities through technological
upgrading, policy and institutional improvements and training. NCZ being
the second largest investment (after mines) in Zambia, the Project will
have a demonstration effect for the restructuring of other parastatal
enterprises in Zambia. By improving production levels and reliability of
fertilizer supply from a domestic source at costs comparable to imported
fertilizers, the Project will support the Government's efforts to improve
agricultural production and productivity and will generate average net
foreign exchange savings to the country estimated at US$28.9 million
annually (in 1984 constant dollars) during the economic life of the
Project, by reducing the amount of fertilizers which would have to be
imported. Direct employment saved by the Project will be about 1,100
permanent jobs.
59.       The main economic benefits of the project would derive from: (a)
an increase in fertilizer production through technical rehabilitation,
improvements in operational efficiency and reliability, and improvements in
supply arrangements for inputs; and (b) the decrease in coal consumption,
in energy consumption generally and in other operating costs, including
fixed costs such as labor and aduinistrative expenses. The Project shows
an economic rate of return of 27 percent. Results of the sensitivity
analysis indicate that the Project would remain economically viable under
any reasonable change in the key parameters.
60.       There is no question that the risks associated with this project
are substantial, but they can be controlled and are worth taking. Because
the Project deals with the rehabilitation of a technically complex plant,
the technical risks are quite large . These risks as well as possible
delays in project implementation, have been minimized by having turn-key
contracts with experienced engineering firms with adequate performance
guarantees. The risk of not attaining and maintaining a high capacity
utilization level derives mainly from organizational, managerial and
foreign exchange problems. These risks have been minimized by (i)
organizational and managerial restructuring of the company, including the
appointment of a full-time Managing Director, restructuring of NCZ's Board
and transferring of NCZ to the ZIMCO Group; (ii) the appointment of an
experienced Operations Management Firm to ensure efficient operation of
NCZ's facilities while introducing proper maintenance procedures,
management information systems and properly training Zambian counterparts
to enable the local staff to operate the company after the departure of the
OMF; and (iii) engaging the services of a Technical Coordinator to
supervise the technical work and to ensure full integration and
coordination at each stage of Project implementation.



- 21 -
61.       The risk of shortages of feedstocks are being minimized through
planned improvements in Maamba Collieries, Zambia Railways and Nampundwe
Mines. In addition, the establishment of the Inter-Agency Fertilizer
Coordination Committee and introduction of proper scheduling and
procurement procedures for domestic as well as imported inputs should help
minimize such risks.
62.       The risk of foreign exchange not being available to cover NCZ's
operating requirements, thereby causing lower capacity utilization and
inadequate maintenance is high. Zambia is facing serious balance of
payments problem and the situation is not expected to improve significantly
in the near future. Therefore, this risk remains although a more organized
dialogue between NCZ and BOZ should help in creating a better understanding
of the problem and the heavy costs associated with it. The recently
introduced auction system for foreign exchange, supported by the
international donor community, should enable NCZ to obtain the needed
foreign exchange.
63.       In the long run, no commercial risk is foreseen as the demand for
fertilizers in Zambia is expected to exceed NCZ's production. The risk of
inadequate financial performance of the company due to lower capacity
utilization and uneconomic prices of output has been minimized by: (i)
institutional reforms and the appointment of an expatriate Operating
Management Firm to operate the company; (ii) adoption of a proper financial
restructuring; (iii) cost reduction measures; and (iv) assurances on
ex-factory prices.
64.       In addition, there is the overall country risk.  Zambia is facing
serious balance of payments problems. The country's economic management
resources are limited and the level of technical expertise is not always
available as needed. The Project calls for many difficult decisions on the
part of the Government, e.g. regarding staffing, pricing and foreign
exchange allocation. So far the GRZ as well as NCZ have shown a
willingness to face up to difficult decisions and it is expected that they
will continue to do so.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 4, 1986



-22 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
243A                  - nU8saL lUgcafl sA   31
(MU s"Con cIsAU) a.i
1o0&   IS711  ar wzaLt    MU" S. 0FWAAA  3. AF31cA & "to brn
an CIUAIU, go. 01)
TOTAL                               751.6       75. 7aL2
ASULInAL                            397.4       309.1        u1.s
*w wVsIM   ML3                           ..          .. Mm00o                        .                     I 1.9
-  oUowrmna m mmt
tl M          Cl   O SL i)VAL)f       ..        30O O        43.0              31.5                      423.9
wOIPMAxM..g-ua CtSOIM)    3141.0               415.0       42510.
.0114  VOIWAalO z (0w TOTAL)          27.2        30.1        44J                22.0                      49.0
5I   1=S IOlUATIE ('ILL)                                   ".
UATIS I          W       0                                  2.0
Mm 30. al.                          4.2         5.5         0.3                 .                       37.5
PM 3  3   AJ. 1A3                   7.9 3      10.4        11.1              124.0                    470.1
nru&au s Socu  (2)
0-14 US                           45.0       "4.1         4.3               456                       43.5
1544 YU                           52.3        51.3       4*.3                51.4                      3.0
45   A 9A                           2.4         2.5         2.3                2.7                      3.3
TOM                                 2.5         2.          3.1                2.9                       2.4
Ono                                 9.1         3.          4.2               5.1                       4.
Con ar       m       1 CPU           43.1        49.0        50.0               47.0                      40.0
clUDE OR=       CATE c 1005)         22.A       10.7         14.0               15O                       11.5
Cs 0URD0CT   RATE                     3.2         3.3         3I                 3.2                       2.5
YA100. VL1A1=30
ACCWT . A1SUS  CUM)                 ..         ..
SR   CZ or N =                                                                                         21) ..  ..  1.        21
-Q - mume
111= Or FWDo ROo., MR CAPITA
Ct1909-71-100)                       99.        94.         95.0               02.9                      gm.
13  CAPITA 31211 01
0*1.051  CZ 0w 33OIMoUT)          IO0A        94.0        91.0               90.5                     110.z
I.MM  CRAM  M  Dmu)               0.0         44.0        54.0               55.                       77.3
a VlICV AbIfUL AM V101            14.0       14.0         14.0 IC           16.5                      11.
1LD LACS 1-4) OrAn UA                31A        24.2         L9.0              16.0                      12.3
Lin EECK. At s32r1 (13435)           41.7        4.          50.5              52.0                      57.J
P41W 20T. (nE CPL T30U3)          151.3       125.0       100.0              107 4                      34.
ACCeSS TO 5A1 VATE (2o0)
TOML                                ..         37.0         4.0 Id           42.;                      67.2
ugum                              ~~~~~~70.    170 47.067.                                 93A
RURAL                                         22.0         4.4               345.4 
ACCmS To e03F.  01575*1
CZ OF POMIUATIM)
TOTAL                                          1.0         40.0              2g                        45.9
011*3  ..  12.0       *0.0               37.7 DJ.0
31                                  ..         U.0         0.0 7I{           20.7                      20.4
POPUiAZZON PER PU151S013          9370.0 o     140.0      7470.0 to         11791.7                    4131.0
?OF. PER  su3c P13som              920.0 It  2430.O        1730.0            240.0                     1545.0
Mr. PMUSETL M
TOOL                             340.0       300.0       210.0 le           951.1                     421.5
031*3                            UO0A0 Lt      ..           A 00.0          3J.                       53.0
1                                470 0          .        240.0, a371.9                               M511.]
AoUSS2S MM MOS2*TAL                  ..          ..          31.0 Le           27.                       25.7
A131eZ SIZR OF 303 L1
TOTAL                               ..          4.4
urns                       ..         ..          .                   ..
..AL                                ..         ..
AVAC  M    F MMrRKO
To                                              2.*         ....
TO.A                                ..          2..4..
URAL                                ..          ..
murnm aO MMOS WrN wm.
TOaL                                ..          ..          .
01327s.5                                       ....,
sum                                 ..          ..          .                  ..



-23-
ANNE I
T A ' " C                                     Page 2 of 6
ZAIHEA                 - SOCAL INX    S  3A_
t,                                                     AWss  cas:muus:uumsv 
1IO1T                    ("on  1 S0M0  SSTIfhLI  k_E
b   b hITIILb  ANticA  S. or s846    A. A1A1       1 m I %AsT
19"41-    197oLb esTDimTeL                               N.  .AIC 1[ 
AWUSTC0 CNIWIJNRIT tATtOS
PRDSAEI  TOTAL                    42.0       89.0        9G.0 9d 53.7                               *9.S
HALE                   31.0        90.0      102.0 I00.0                                 103.7
rINa                   34.0        79.0       90.0              63.2                      73Z
SECOOIiT TOTAL                    2.0        13.0        17.0 id           17.3                     42.V
MALE                    3.0        17.0       2z.0               22O z0.
130.                    1.0        6.0        12.0 7             14.6                     34.6
VOCATOAL CZ o0 sBcmu)               V.6         3.2         2.3               3 .9                    10.0
EUPIL-TOACIUI 341T1O
wmMARF                            50.0       47.0        48.0 id           41.1                     29.7
sUcOAT                            14.0       22.0        22.0              23.3                      16.8
PASS#ZI C1SITUCAaID FM             10.4        14.5        18.7 A                 Z0.                 17.6
3A310 UCEIW3MlToAD70 Po,            4.6 it    16.0         26.5             107.0                    175.9
TV snMMUIUOAmP                       ..         4.1        12.4              2.             z1.2
ItNtS") CXSC DAfO
PI  TI SMAND 1011T71011             5.1       13.7        10.7              1.A                      37.2
CUM  AML ATEIDACCAPI                ..          ..          0.3 A             0.4                      2.4
TOM LAD w100 (TWO)                1295.0     1MI10       216.0.
*   3U*Z (CPT)                   33.3        31.         33.0              34.2                     11.0
ACIIaLWUES (C1UYT)               79.0        73.0   -  67.0 I              54.5                     42.4
ZXlUSTE (13T3)                    7.0         9.0        11.0              16.3                     27.9
PARIIPATIONI ATA (P3RC23?)
TOAL                             41.2        39.0        34.6              36.6                     26.2
AM                               553.3       52.9        47.5               7.1                     44.2
roL                             V2.3         25.2        226               27.2                      5.0
ECCOMUSC DS _I 2 IA=I               1.2         1.2         1.5               1.3                      1.6
INCOM   OF WIz   U ICUI
3011_33
RiCo=ST 5S or 10uW               33.7        23L0 1       ..
hZIMT  20 OP IDoSWLDS            56.2        63.0 1      3.7*
LO-;S 40Z OF O MOUSOL            13.0        104.1      1   7 
Fg=TANES 20 C UoUWI5.                            .
EST2KAUD Ao1um  Pm9  ZUC
LE. (US$ PS& CAPITA)
uI                                ..          ..        247.0             390.7                    22b.3
WEAL                              ..          ..        165.0 .4          275.3                    134.0
tSrOAI 3D 9141T1 109331! INC
11. (UsS PER CAPI)
03343                             ..          ..        126.0 1           54.                      431.3
ismL                              ..          ..        33.0 a            201.1                    326.0
33110*1531W. =Tu M
PrWOS  10023 11. CZ)
O6.                               ..          ..         25.0.
WEAL                              ..          ..         ..                 ..           D2.O
NO. AVAXLAU5
MOT A1PLFCANZ
NOTaS
I    1e gr. aveags for eamH iufcator me pe,apl tor n        twc ed artl tSc mesm. n.v.reg of cweuria
nn  th1  1i1d.ta. depeds - ave12ab Lty of data . is o act  toR.
Lb   gala. otb.... oo.d.  Date for 19W rrefe  to a   er y     ew  _. 1939 _d 19611 "Data for 1970" he_-em
19. e.d 1971; .  data fce "Het laet bUrtle   ebiab         19U1 _  16.
Lc  1977; /d 1960; A  1979; If 1963; IA 1978; A  1976; A  1942;, 1  1973.
JI=, 1963



- 24 -
*ltAN     I
Page  3 of 6
DgFNmOIINS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
oue. Albaugh the 1A dai u drma rInOm olren ge ly judpd ihe mast asuthonitv and rimUt is tsold agso be noed that ihmy may sa bg intima lly
campurabim becm of Id tak of tanndanrd dnlln.usom and cans mad by dulne coustis in culkcung ite dais. Thc dat am. nomiedle. usful to
dienbi oder of miamudce. iimmu    and ciatracmtnseri cinri tmI  difflamCnA  bitum   ainlin.
Twe refe Kermpop  mitr I II  taime cuntvn poop at thin ubje  canitry ad (21) a country aop wt io umewbat hubsr average camw than ibm country
pouop af lhe suba CemIry immpre rir -Hih Incanm OCi Eapaneni poup whrm Mddek Income Noah Afrct and Middle Ea- is chseon  ucaim at stranger
stis-cudturst afinuteivl In the refmnce eup 4auw te a.enra are popultn weighaid arthreLc itans tar each indiator and shown only wohe nmaiy
of lih couie In * r a romp has du for that ndicator Sinwc the coverage ofcasntna among ibme inditor dends on the astaiashihl of dau nd is not umform.
caution must be eercneed tn reunt ae-ragns ol aoi indicator io anothr Thm a-craps ar only ustful in comupnan ith 'alue af onc ndicator am a me mng
a count and rekficnne pgro
ARCA (thousand sq.km.I                                           Crud irAk  Rae (per rhlasandj-Number of live births in the year
FTed-Total surface area compnsng Land area and inland waterm     per thousand of mid-year populauon 1960. 1970. and 19813 daLa.
1960. 1970 and 1913 data                                         Cru  Death Rae (per f hp rsndj-Number of deaths in the year
Agricukwal-Esutmate of agrcultural arm  used temporanly or       per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
permanently for crops pastures. market and kitchen prdens or to  Gro  Reprodacioa Rare-Average number of daughter a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1912 data.                           wvil bear in her normal reproducuve penod if she expericnces
present age-specific furtiity rates usually five-year averags ending
CNP PER CAPITA lUSSl-GNP per capita steimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1933.
market prices, calulated by same converston method as World      A      r    _ Pk. -Awprr. A     _d fth_asnduj-Annual nts-
Bank Atlas I 1981-33 bamsis) 1933 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planntng program.
coniurnption of commercial pnmary energy Icoal and ligite.   . Faly Pf xq-                (pecen of-wried -  n)-Tbeperen-
petroleum. natural gs and hydro- nuclear and geotberma! clec-     age of marred women of child-bcanng age who are practicing or
trciyl I mkilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ar practicing any form of contraception. Women
1912 data                                                        of child-bearing age arm generlly women aged 13-49. although for
some counies contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groupL
Total P9p11 aduen -id-Yea (rhess1s)-As of July 1 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NLTRmON
and 1913 data.
Index of Food Froedrien Per Capita f l96. r1- JNj)-ndex or per
Urba  Pbpopdion (pne.  of totora)-Ratio or urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities Production
populauion; different definitions of urban arcas may affet compar-  excludes animal feed and sed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counmes 1960. 19-0. and 1993 data.        include pnmary commodities leg. sugarcane instead of sugpra
Ppuin         e                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and te  are
JPbopation m yea 2XI000-The projection of population or 2000.   eacluded): thy compnse cereals root crops pulxse oil seeds.
made for each economy separatelv Starting with informauon on     vegetables rruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets livestock, and
total populauon by age and sea, ferrility rates. monrtalty rates. and  livestock products. Aggmrete production orech country is based
iernational migriuon in the base year 1980. these parameters     on national averae producer pnce weights: 1%1-65. 1970. and
ere projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gneralized  1982 data.
assumpuons until the populauon became s5tatoary.                 Pr Cap& S ly ofC ie qp                 r r n      Conput-
Smatmanarv popmaunon-Is onc in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric cquivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-specific  per capita per day Available supphis comprise domesttc produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports ess exports and changes n stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction ratc - I 1 In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds ror use in agriculture, quantiues used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losss in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zem  The stationary populauon  esimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characterisucs of  and health considering environmental temperatur  body vinghts.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decare of ferulity  age and se dist;buuon ofpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 ain  1912 datis
Pbpoanaon Mosentmn-ls the tendency for population growth to    Phr Capre Sipply of Protin (gram  per dlqy-Proteun content of
continue beyond the ume that replacement-level ferulity has been  per capita net supply of rood per day. Net supply of rood is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirments for all countries established by USDA
unity The mnomentum of a population in the year r is masured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protem  per
a ratio or the ultimate stauonary popultanon to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumpton that fertiity remains at replace-  should be anml protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment kleve from year ronward. 19S5 data.                        75 grans of total protein and 23 grams or animal protein as an
Pbpulation Drr.fy                                               average for the world proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkin.-Mid-year populanon per square kilometer 11 00 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.                hr Capita PhrereteSpply Frm Aninn  and Pr  s-Protein iupply
hrr sq kmt. agrwrularatl tend-Computed as above for agricutural  of food derived from animah and pulses in granms per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Population 4de Sn'ucre (percentrj-Chtildren (0-14 years. work-  Chird qres 1-4) Deat Rert (per tehoeandj-Number ordeaths of
ing age tl 5-64 years). nd retired 65 rean and overtas perentage  children aged 1-4 yeanrs per thousand children in the same age
of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year For most developing countries data denved
Population Growth Rate (percentu-iroral---Annual growth rates of  rrom life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1913 data.
tol miud-year populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Popultion Growth rRe tpercenrj-,rm.h-Annual growth rates         L4f EzJe4recjr ar Bre  (yeas)u-Nunber of years a net horn
of urban populaton for 190-%60. 1960-7-0. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalitv for all people



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the th   of oits bkith we  to stay te same througbout iu life  Pup&tracher Rail. pnmy. and scmudry-Total students en-
1960.1970 aid 19U3 date.                                       rolled in pimary and seondary levels divided by numben of
Ihip   Mme117 Rum (per huendj-Numnber of infants who die       teachers in the corresponding evel.
before reaching one year of ae per thouand Uve births in a given
yew. 1960. 1970 and 1933 daut                                  CONSUMPIION
Aess to Sg WSW trpeore .f pwusJl -W4 ima., and                 P_ or Cars eper ihmsd p.puildolm-Passenger cars com-
urw-Number of people (totaL urban and rural) with reaonable    prise motor cars seating ess tan eight perons: excludes ambul-
ac to wsfe wauer supply (incds  tread surfee wates or          ances. hearsnes and militay vehiceL
untVited but uncntminated water such as that fram proteted    Rfao Reenirs (per rhwandpopalelsan)-Al types of receivers
borehoes spring  nd sanitary wdls) as percentage of their rspee-  for radio bradcasts to geal public per thousand of population:
tive populatios. In an urban are a public fountan or standpost  ciudes uicensed rccvers in counti  and in year when
klated not more than 200 me  frrom a house may be consadered              of r-d smcwas m   countr  rcm yearswhay
g itin reanabke ace  of that house. In ural a    re              gist  on of adio ets      effct dari   for reent years may
reasonablec accs would imply that the housewife or members of the nobeomablsicmotourisblsedienng
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionacte part of the day  TVrRee ppV  rivers for bradcast
in feting dw family's wateer-                                             p      thousand pop o  exludo unikensed TV
Ars to Ercnresa ms1po     pmaof          e.-..                 M  ven in counis and in ye n when registranion of TV se wa
ad mwi-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by
excreta dsposa a percent   of their repectve populations.             l  CJime (pa thosindpapUledkisou-hoW  the aver-
Excret disposl may indcude the collection and disposal. with or  ag ciulaton of -dedy general interet newspaper defined as a
without teaent. of human era  and wast-water by water-         persdi  publication devoted pnimarily to fecorduig gIeral news.
borneasym   or the use of pit privies and similar insa tions.  It is considerd to be 'daily- if it spears at least four tims a wedek
Papuldou pe Ph11sidau-4'bpulation divided by number of prac-   Clnae Aaal Azradaae per Ca*a per Yew-Based on the
tising physiians qualified from a medical school at university levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
lispeferMe per Nursing Pevson-P'bpularion divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practcing mae and female grduate nurse, assistant nurs.
practicl nurse and nursing auxilia.                            LAOR FORCE
Ppelte p- Hoqd   Lad                    d                      Total    r Fore (thoumbs-Econoricaly active persons in-
(totaL urb    and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
students. etc.. coverng populaion of all ages Definitions 
hospitds availabletin  cbntc and    pitals. reinem  mts        various countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at lest one physiciL Establshments prova  Feank (prcawj-Female labor force as prcentage of total labor
iding pincipaUy cusodial care ar not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however include health and mdal cetes not permanently staffed  Agricslar (porcJ-Labor force in farming forestry, bunng
by a physidan (but by a medicl assistant nurse. midrife etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and I950
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data
of mcdical falitics.                                           Iadary (perceari-Labor force in minng. constuctionL manu-
Admiziu pe fospital Bad-Toul number of admissons to or         facturing and eectricity, water and gas as pcentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by be number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1950 data
Fbr      e Rare dperczxr)-mta  -el. aadftemela-Prticipauon
HOUSING                                                        or acvity res are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
A.re  S   of Nomwhe- d (po  p-                      -*lI,      as percentages of totaL malk and female population of al agFs
audrr_l-A household consis ofa goup of individuals who share   respectidy 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meahL A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation res rum irng age-sex structure of the population and
may not be induded in the household for statiscal purposes.   long time trend. A few esuimates are from oational sources.
A.W4  Nuamer of Parsem per Room-ero_. when, eand nrwl-         Ecommic Dependency Ro-Ratio of population under 15 and
Average number of pemons per room in al urban, and rural       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pars.                  INCOME DlSTRIBLTION
Pretage of DweOiags -ith Ekrridry--oral. arhfa, msd rul-       Pecentag of Tota Disoabklincome (both i cash and kid)-
Con%entional dwellings with electrity in living quartae   s percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4arted E    ilmeue Ra_.                                       The fioUowing estimates are very approximate numsures of poverty
P1mry sciool - tonal malt and fenme-4Grcss totaL male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution
femalenrollnm et of all ags at the primary levd as percenges of    E&st td Ahsolmt e Porrwy la w,   eleL' fESS per cpeiai-arben
respective primary school-age populations. Wtile many countries  and rura-Absolute poverty income leve is that income level
consider prnmary school age to be 6-11 yen. others do not The  below wbich a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  E   rmed Rerje Pbwer lucom Levwl f USS per calpreJ_-wra
education gross enrollmrent may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country7s standard prnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - totel. mae andfemak-Conputed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at leat four years of approved pri-  Esgiwad PpuJiw Beow AbsohPre Povety Incme Leld (per-
mary instruction; provides geneaL vocationaL or teacher wning  cenrJ-i-br  and  w;rura- Pacent of population (urban and rural
insuctios for pupils usually of 12 tO 17 years of gr. correspond-  who are "absolute poor'
encz courses are gencrally exduded.
Vocauud Earo&buie  percer of secondaryj-Vocatonal institu-              Compartive Analysis and Data Division
tions incude techmical industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysts and Projections Department
independcndy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-26 -                                         ANN___
Paxe 5 of 6
ZANBIA: EODIC IIDCINDAS
poplatioQ        6.225 million (mid-1983)
GNE per Capita: 1ES580 (ndd--1983)
NAICHL ACODUNS
1984
U;S       Percent                  Anual Growth Rates (Z)
TIdicator          milons  of GDP        1975-80      1981      1982      1983    1984
GDP, Factor Cost            2224        84         -0.7      2.7      -2.1     -8.0      -2.0
GDP, Market Prices          2638       100        -1.1       6.2      -2.8     -2.0    -1.3
Agriculture                382        15          0.5      8.2    -11.7       8.4      9.7
Minirg                     363        14         -3.0      4.7       0.0       3.0    -8.0
Other rndustryl            653        25        -0.2       5.1      -0.9     -5.1    -1.3
Services                  1240        46         0.4       6.5      -1.6     -4.3    -3.5
onsuition                   2232        85         0.0       9.3      -8.8     -4.4    -1.5
GrCss Investmen              370        14        -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2    -4.2
Exports of Goods & NFS       964        37         -3.5    -12.8      15.7     -9.7    -8.0
TIprtS of Goods & NFS        928        35        -8.9    -16.0    -22.0    -15.6   -13.5
Grcss Doestic Savirigs       406        16          0.0    -48.2    -26.6      83.9      6.3
VERN4ENI FINPANE               General Gave n             Gtrtal Ckwenumt (1984)
KMln.)        % ofa   P      (K Mln.)        Z of
Oareot Receipts                                              1,098           23.2
Qirrent Eendtures                                            1,303           27.5
Owrent Surplus                                                -205          -4.3
Capital Eenditues                                              182            3.9
External FTnardrg                                               58            1.2
tEY, tRF and PRtM                                                                     (Sept.)
1975   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-    -  P~IRon KE Fiiod) -
HaW  ard Qxasit W                         493    907    979   1309   1454   1704   1871
Bark Creit to Government                  318   1355   1495   1983   2099   2287   2512
Bark Credit to Private Sector3            393    505    765    905   1052   1220   1411
(PercetaRe and Indc NMer)
Money ad Qasi Ya   as X of GDP           31.3   29.6.  2R.4   36.4   34.8   36.0   14.2
Wholesale Price Iniec (1966=100)4       188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  829.2
Anmml percentme diarge in:
WhDlesale Price Index                  16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.3   24.9
Bark Credit to Goverrment             406.9   2n.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0   12.8
Bark Credit to Private Sector3         17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3   16.2   16.0   20.5
1 nazfacturirg, amnstruction, electricity, gas ani water.
2 Figures do not differ sigificantly fran Central Cvenr2rt'.
3  cludes Parastatal ormnizations.                                            EAISA
4 AU darestically uad   ods.                                                   -Uary 29, 1986



- 27 -
ANEX I
Page 6 of 6
ZANBTA
7RADE PMMS AND CAPrA  FIW
BAIAN  OF PAX4f                                               MEIS]ISE EXPEtS 1984
1981   1982   1983   1984
iii10[--M                                     US$>  n.    Z
Exports of  ods, NFS          1,129   1,067   1,005    964    (pr                     685     82
inuprtMD    of Gods, IfS    1,633   1,410   1,043    928    (bbalt                   74       9
Reource Gap (deficit =   _)   -504   -343    -38       36    lead ard Zinc             31      4
All oder                47       5
Factor Services (net)a        -218   -235   -188   -221         Ibtal                 837    100
Net Transfers                 -158    -72    -50    -51                               -      -
Balanoe on Current Acount    -880   -650   -276   -236
EIN4L DEBr, Dec. 31, 1984
OffEcial Grants                 26      30      42     50
Direct Foreizn Investment       ..    ..       ..     ..                                   USS Mn.
Net MLT BorraA.rg              220    258    128    134    Public Debt, lncl. gparanted   2,817
EtLsbursewnts                407    350    176    155    NDr-GLXranteed Private Debt        ..
AzDrtizaLtin a               187      92     48      21    Ibtal uCtstandixn  & Disbursed   2,817
Net IMF                        367    -57      64      75
Comiarr al Paynmnts Arrears     53    240    -50       25
Other Items (ne.i.)            176    267      67    -53    DEBT SERVICE RAITI FOR 1984
Charge in Reserves              38    -88       25      5                                   %
Fbblic Debt, incl. guarmteed  7.4 b
M-MDrandun Items                                              Nior-GunteivatrivateDDebtbt
Total Ottstanlirg & Disb t    7, b
Gross Int'l. Reserves           52    140    115    110
(weSks of Imports)            (1.7)  (5.2)  (5.7)  (6.3)
Current A/C Bal. as X GOP    -21.9  -16.7   -8.2   -8.2    IBRD/MDA LENDII , March 31, 1985
"HilIion U3S$)
RAES OF EXANGE                                                                        IBID   IDA
oCtstanding & Disbursed 337.92  43.03
1981     US$1.00            0.8684                            Ubdisbursed             108.23  139.52
1982                        0.9282                            ousta:ndlg 1nel,.
1983                        1.2506                              Undisbursed          446.15  182.55
1984                        1.7943 
a Ew1mdes arrears on interest and             paynegts and amounts resdheduled.
b Actal. debt service pai ol iblic and Pbblically Guaranteed debt, ew-ludixng arrears and IMF
repayments. Sdw&Aed debt service due on PEPG debt uas equivalert to 46.1 percent of ewports of mods
and nrvfactor services.
..ot available                                                                     Jaary 29, 1986



-28-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Sept. 30, 1985)
Amount In US$ Million
(Less r%ncellations)
Loan  Credit                                                                        Undisbursed
No.   No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Loan  Credit 1/
21 Loans fully
disbursed                                  448.77
1566   798    1978   Zambia             Third Highway             11.25   11.25  11.25    3.41
863    1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                   6.00            0.20
873    1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance                5.00            1.22
1790   973    1980   Zambia             Third Railway             25.00   15.00   6.50    0.74
1923          1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company            15.00            0.22
2001           1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development        11.00            7.35
1193    1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development                 18.00          13.85
1196    1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.              7.50            6.69
1251    1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                    25.00           17.33
2151          1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.    5.10              3.23
2152           1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration Prom.    6.60             2.45
1333    1983   Zambia            Maamba Coal Eng.                    4.30            2.76
1362    1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                 10.00            8.10
SF2     1983   Zambia            Rural Water 3upply                  6.00            4.00
1437    1984   Zambia            Ind. Forestry-PhaseIII             22.40           21.98
2391          1984   Zambia             Export Rehab. & Diver.   75.00            55.69
1529    1985   Zambia            Fisheries                           7.10            7.07
1545    1985   Zambia            Agricultural Rehab.                25.00           21.98
1575    1985   Zambia            Fourth Railways2/                  20.00           20.00
Total                                             597.74  182.55  86.69  127.49
of which has been repaid                         166.78      -
Total now outstanding                             430.96  182.55
Amounts sold                          28.58
of which has been repaid             28.58          -        -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                        430.96  182.55
of which is undisbursed                           86.69  127.49
NOTES:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1193-ZA and above) are shown in US Dollar equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Credit 1627 (Tazama) for US$3.1 million equivalent, signed on October 16).



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Sept. 30, 1985)
Investment   Commitment                                         US$ Million Equivalent
No.           Year                       Type of Business      Loan  Equity       Total
216-ZA        1972   Zambia Bata Shoe                           0.85   0.23         1.08
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing
250-ZA        1973   Zambia  Bata Shoe  Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery             1.20    -          1.20
307-ZA        1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.78   0.21          0.99
324-ZA        1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                 -     0.54        0.54
394-ZA        1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.10    -            0.10
483-ZA        1980   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production             28.00    -         28.00
427-ZA        1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers    7.60    -            7.60
600-ZA        1982   Zambia Consoli-
dated Copper Mines Copper Production   25.14    -            25.14
709-ZA        1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism                16.96    -         16.96
743-ZA        1985   Mpongwe Develop-   Food and Food
ment Co. Ltd.,      Processing             1.81   0.29        2.10
721-ZA        1985   Kafue Textiles of  Textiles & Fibers    3.15    -              3.15
Zambia Limited
Total gross commitments                   85.59   1.27       86.86
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    31.81   0.20        32.01
Total now held by IFC                     53.78   1.07       54.85
Total undisbursed                          7.06    -          7.06



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page I of I
ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.  Timetable of Key Events
a.  Time taken to prepare project           9 months
b.  Project prepared by                     Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
c.  First presentation to IUDA              November 1983
d.  Departure of Appraisal Mission          November 1984
e.  Negotiatlons                            August 1985
f.  Planned date of effectiveness           June 1986
II.  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
III.  Special Conditions
a. NCZ to sign the engineering contract for the rehabilitation of
NCZ II plant, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(paragraph 49);
b. NCZ to conduct, by September 30, 1986, an energy audit study, an
environmental study, and a full safety study of its operations
(paragrah 45);
c.  GRZ and NCZ to execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement as a condition
of credit effectiveness-(paragraph 48);
d. NCZ to fulfill the conditions of disbursement of the FRG
cofinancing loan, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(paragraph 47);
e. NCZ to provide to IDA by December 31 of each year an annual plan
of action for reducing its fixed and operational costs
(paragraph 52).



ZAMBIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING
PROJECT
'J.  Ports                    I    Coal deposit areas
Roads                      8  Phosphate deposits
- , , Railroads                   A   Pyrite deposits firan suiphide)
=3z~ Rivers                        *  NCZ Fertilizer Plant
Swamps                     *  INDENI Refinery
0    Notional capital           *  MAAMBA Coal Mine (existing)
    Provinciol capitals        *  NAMPUNDWE Pyrite Mine
-  Provincial boundaries          FERTILIZER DEPOTS,
i  _._ International boundaries    *  NAMBOARD
,                              E1 ~~~~~~~~~co-ops
\8 f { ~~~~~~~Z A I R E_
-                    - -   *       - }ZA _                   IRE.
Mwiln.Iunga   A
A N G O LA 
J' \ >  N O R T'H                           ,
1'41-w~~~~~~~~~Kaino Kuf
i~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 L., 
lu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
.  Mon                               S - -t- - -
!   w  t  s r E if N                      tX
Katabo~~~~~~~~nz
M
A N GO0 L A   .-
* . ---         N A M  I B I A                         inone
. _'                    ~~~~2a ..F\~-< OrSWA:      ] 



IBRD 18&
~( Ka                       TANZANIA
/                                    A  /:   eooJO             
J8w ov X  r  .     X          ~~~~Mhala    s
Mporokloso       'y         ~\S
MweAl /n                                     M Oi
2-- ;/' _~~AlO R T H ye f /b
re                J*o                                                                     0 a -;;r5
Lmkumbosh,             A       /,
......... Ndoa  -
of   a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 
--;)) wngf        dol o                                <ni              Chipoto 
L,TnshyN                                                                             o -ndian
Aar.bo                                              I~~~~~~~~rel
R sKe~~~~~piri Mposh-  _ ^.
fz C E10R   A    L   1               A       \              _.'-J
: viene   7KObwee                                   7)                                _
'-.   ..~ ~             W                            MOZ AM B I Q U E
Pyraw M.  NW E  U~ mu Bem E I-mnNWu F`-C..u
. iengo X <_ , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA  DarOs 
t                                            ! _     _          .                       <~~n  VU
ok                                                     ~                                      S    _xwt Ocean
a..1
MAY1985






