r_             CREDIT NUMBER 1662 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Restructuring Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      9       , 1986


﻿CREDIT UMBER 1662 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       91       1986, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal
Republic of Germany (hereinafter called FRG) a loan (hereinafter
called the FRG Loan) in an amount of sixty eight million Deutsche
Marks (DM 68,000,000) to assist in financing the Project;
(C)  the Borrower and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (hereinafter called OECF) have entered into an agreement
whereby OECF has agreed to make a loan co the Borrower (herein-
after called the OECF Loan) in an amount of six billion three
hundred forty three million Japanese Yen (Y 6,317,000,000) to
assist in financing the Project;
(D)  the Project will be carried out by Nitrogen Chemicals
of Zambia Limited (NCZ), a company incorporated under the Bor-
rower's Companies Act on September 21, 1967 with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to NCZ the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and NCZ;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,


﻿-2-
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NCZ of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NCZ pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated March 12, 1985 and
March 29, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "NCZ I Plant" refers to the fertilizer plant at Kafue
built by contractors from Japan and commissioned in 1970;
(e)  "NCZ II Plant" refers to the fertilizer plant at Kafue
built by a contractor from the Federal Republic of Germany and
commissioned in 1982;
(f)   "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(g)    "Fiscal Year" means the period from April        1 to
March 31; and
(h)    "ZIMCO" means    the  Zambia  Industrial  and  Mining
Corporation, Limited.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special account in
the Zambia National Commercial Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.    The commitment charge shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be


﻿-4-
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other ellgible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the priiicipal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1996, and ending
February 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one
per  cent  (1/2 of   1%) of    such  principal  amount, and   each
installment  thereafter  shall   be  one and   one-half  per  cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of NCZ is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause NCZ to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations cf NCZ
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NCZ to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
NCZ under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NCZ, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include the
following:
(i) repayment of principal in 15-years, including
5 years of grace;
(ii) interest at a rate not less than 9.7% per annum;
and
(iii) NCZ to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by NCZ
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall appoint or cause to appoint
and retain to the position of Chairman and members of the Board
of Directors of NCZ, Managing Director of NCZ, General Manager of
NCZ, Finance Manager of NCZ and Internal Auditor of NCZ, only
persons with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain: (i) the
Inter-Agency Fertilizer Coordination Committee established in
1984 to ensure full operational coordination among NCZ, Maamba
Collieries, Zambia Railways, Tazara Railways and the National
Agricultural Marketing Board; and (ii) the Project Steering
Committee established in 1984 consisting of the Chairman of NCZ
Board of Directors, Managing Director of NCZ, Financial Director
of ZIMCO and the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance,
to oversee the implementation of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall not alter the composition or func-
tions of either the Inter-Agency Fertilizer Coordination Commit-
tee or the Project Steering Committee without prior consultation
with the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times provide, or
cause to be provided to NCZ supplies of coal, pyrites and
electricity and other inputs adequate to enable NCZ to operate
its facilities at full capacity.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-7-
(a) NCZ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
NCZ will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Memorandum and Articles of Association of NCZ shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of NCZ to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NCZ, for the suspension of its operations or, except as
the Association may otherwise agree, for changing the corporate
relationship between NCZ and ZIMCO.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7,01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the FRG Loan or the OECF Loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) the FRG Loan or the OECF Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.


﻿- 8 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association   that:  (A)   such   suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NCZ;
(b) the engineering contract for the rehabilitation of NCZ
II Plant between NCZ and a reputable engineering firm has been
signed, executed and delivered on behalf of both parties thereto
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) the Association shall have received appropriate notifi-
cation showing that all conditions precedent (if any) to the
first disbursement of the FRG Loan have been fulfilled, save for
the effectiveness hereof.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NCZ and is legally binding upon NCZ in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)    that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NCZ and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NCZ in accordance with its terms.


﻿-9-
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 through 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                             42221 ZA MINFIN
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable aLuress:                        Telex:
A-J EVAS                           440098 (ITT)
WaiLgton±, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and yeaw. first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /S/    1'                    WV1 aua-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /6/ ,'tjdj3LL                    U
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Imported equip-             3,330,000        100% of foreign
ment and mate-                              expenditure and
rials under                                 80% of local
Part A.2 of                                expenditure
the Project
(2) Consultants'                4,630,000        100%
Services under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Overseas Travel               490,000        100%
and Training
under Part C
of the Project
(4) Refunding                     250,000       Amount due pur-
Project                                     suant to Section
Preparation                                 2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                     Agreement
(5) Unallocated                 1,000,000
TOTAL                 9,700,000
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿- 12 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(i) carrying out the physical rehabilitation of the plants and
facilities of NCZ in order to increase the production of ferti-
lizer; (ii) restructuring NCZ's management and organization;
(iii) restructuring NCZ's finances; (iv) developing modern
management techniques for plant operation; (v) training of NCZ
staff; and (vi) improving the product logistics system. The
Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of NCZ Plants
1.   Carrying out rehabilitation of NCZ I Plant and NCZ II
Plant involving the overhaul and replacement of all
obsolete equipment and materials, carrying out repairs
and improvements to the operating systems of the
Plants, provision of technical assistance and training.
2.   Provision of materials and equipment for plant improve-
ments including offsites, utilities, infrastructure and
environmental system of NCZ.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Provision of consultants' services to NCZ to carry out:
(a) the operation and management of NCZ;
(b) technical coordination of the rehabilitation work
of NCZ Plants;
(c) an Organizational Restructuring Study of NCZ;
(d) an environmental study of NCZ, including a review
of the waste and liquid effluent disposal system;
(e) a safety study of NCZ operations;
(f) an energy audit study;


﻿- 14-
(g) an organizational restructuring of NCZ;
(h) a cost reduction program; and
(i) a training program for NCZ staff.
Part C:   Training
Provision of local and overseas training to NCZ staff
in technical, managerial and financial fields.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (3) in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 150,000 which is to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
(1) and (3), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) and (3) for the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) and (3) for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 17 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Associzition such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     UL    day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


