CREDIT NUMBER 1662 ZA
Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NITROGEN CHEMICALS OF ZAMBIA LIMITED
Dated      19f                     , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1662 ZA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
NITROGEN CHEMICALS OF ZAMBIA LIMITED (NCZ).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million   seven   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 9,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NCZ
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NCZ, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to NCZ on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NCZ, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NCZ declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, safety and
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. NCZ shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,  maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. NCZ shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NCZ shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section  2.05.  (a) NCZ   shall, at    the  request of   the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   NCZ shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by NCZ of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NCZ
Section 3.01. (a) NCZ shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial,  engineering,   safety  and   environmental  standards
acceptable to the Association under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.


﻿-3-
(b)   Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, NCZ shall not change the composition or the
number of staff at managerial level or alter its organizational
structure without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.02. NCZ shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
rnewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, safety and environmental standards acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.03. NCZ shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTLCLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NCZ shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) NCZ shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditirg   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements


﻿4-
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, NCZ shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,   bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NCZ shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.1 for fiscal years 1985/1986,
1986/1987 and 1.4 for the fiscal years thereafter.
(b) Before April 1, in each of its fiscal years, NCZ shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by NCZ and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)  If any such review shows that NCZ would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NCZ's fiscal years
covered by such review, NCZ shall promptly take all necessary
measures   including, without   limitation,   adjustments  of  the


﻿- 5 -
structure or levels of its prices in order to meet such require-
ments.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, includ-
ing accounts receivable, marketable securities,
inventories   and   pre-paid   expenses   properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next
fiscal year.
(ii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
ties which become due and payable or could under
circumstances then existing be called for payment
within twelve months, including accounts payable,
customer advances, debt service requirements,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and divi-
dends.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the timc of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence Gf such rate, on the basis
of rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NCZ shall not, beginning in fiscal year 1988/1989, incur
any debt, unless the net revenues of NCZ for the fiscal year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements of NCZ for any


﻿- 6 -
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of NCZ, including the debt to
be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of the
NCZ's prices in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including   administration,   adequate   main-
tenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NCZ shall not, beginning in fiscal year 1985/1986, incur
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt
to equity shall be greater than 60 to 40.
(b)  For purposes of this Section, the term "equity" means
the  sum  of  the  total unimpaired    paid-up  capital, retained


﻿- 7 -
earnings and reserves of NCZ not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
Section 4.05. For the purpose of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of
this Agreement:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NCZ.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence
of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.06. NCZ shall, until completion of the Project,
consult with the Association prior to making any capital
investment not included in the Eroject, involving in any fiscal
year an aggregate amount in excess of the equivalent of two
million dollars.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NCZ shall not declare or pay or set apart any funds,
properties or assets for the payment of any dividends on, or make
any other distribution by reduction of capital or otherwise, in
respect of any shares of NCZ until the completion of the Project.
Section 4.08. NCZ shall, within 60 days after the end of
each quarter, submit to the Association for review and comments
(a) a Project Progress Report, (b) a procurement status report,
and (c) any other report on the Project as the Association may
request.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. NCZ shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1986
prepare and submit to the Association for review and comments a
comprehensive training program for its staff, and (b) implement
such program taking into account the Association's views.
Section 5.02. NCZ shall: (a) not later than September 30,
1986, prepare and submit to the Association for review and com-
ments (i) Environmental, (ii) Energy Audit, and (iii) Safety
Studies to be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association; and (b) implement the recommendations of the
studies taking into account the Association's views.
Section 5.03. NCZ shall, not later than April 30, 1986: (a)
prepare and submit to the Association for review and comments an
Organizational Restructuring Study to be carried out under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association; and (b) implement
the recommendations of the study taking into account the Asso-
ciation's views.
Section 5.04. NCZ shall: (a) by December 31 of each year
submit to the Association for review and comments an Annual Plan
of Action for reducing its fixed and operational costs; and (b)
implement the Plan taking into account the Association's views.
Section 5.05. NCZ shall, not later than April 1, 1986, take
all necessary measures to set the ex-factory prices of fertili-
zers at levels equivalent to CIF landed cost of imported fertili-
zers.
Section 5.06. NCZ shall, not later -nan December 31, 1987,
complete the installation in NCZ Plant I of a nitrogen oxide
abatement uait whose specifications shall be acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NCZ thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NCZ of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered* by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For NCZ:
Managing Director
NCZ
P.O. Box 226
Kafue
Zambia
Cable address:                   Telex:
NITROCHEM                         ZA 70030
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NCZ may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director of NCZ or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director of NCZ shall designate in writing, and NCZ
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one inktrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By {/    ~     j    J     \KA'
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
NITROGEN CHEMICALS OF ZAMBIA LIMITED
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
Part B. Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of US$300,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers from three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.     Proprietary items estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount of US$600,000 equivalent may be purchased directly under
negotiated contracts.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract for equipment and mate-
rial, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the con-
tract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4


﻿- 12 -
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist NCZ in implementing the Project, NCZ
shall employ an Operations Management Firm of consultants and
other consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    %.:    day of
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


