Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14217
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1731-BA)
April 3, 1995
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(Kyats per US$)
GOM Fiscal Year                         Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year 1986-87                           8.80
1987-88                                 6.78
1988-89                                 6.35
1989-90                                 6.60
1990-91                                 6.45
1991-92                                 6.01
1992-93                                 6.24
Completion Year 1993-94                          6.50
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Weights and Measures
1 foot (ft)  =  0.305 meters (m)
1 acre (ac)  =  0.405 hectares (ha)
1 pound (lb)  =  0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic foot/second  =  0.028 cubic meters/second
ton   =  metric ton = 2,200 pounds
Abbreviations
CDZ       Central Dry Zone
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EIMS      Equipment Inventory Management System
GOM       Government of Myanmar
ID        Irrigation Department
MAS       Myanmar Agriculture Service
MB        Mechanical Branch of the Irrigation Department
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
R&M       Rehabilitation and Modernization
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TA        Technical Assistance
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WC         Water Course



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA.
Office of DIr.otor4mnern
Operm80n E ud,on
April 3, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
(Credit 1731-BA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled Project Completion Report (PCR) on
Myanmar-Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (Credit 1731-BA) prepared
by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower did not contribute a Part II to the
PCR.
The project was to be the first of several to both rehabilitate and modernize (R&M) five
old run-of-the-river irrigation schemes in the central dry zone of "Upper Burma'. No storage was
present or planned, and the principal objective was to maximize the supplementary use of
irrigation on about 50,000 hectares of paddy under command in the rainy season. Substantial
institution-building components were added to improve the Irrigation Department's (ID) planning
and mechanical divisions. As discussed in an excellent PCR originally prepared by FAO/CP, the
project reached its main physical targets and, despite government's reluctance to make full use of
the technical assistance provision, the improvements in ID were also mostly realized.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. Actual cropping intensities are
better than expected, a substantial area is now planted to a second, relay crop of chick pea that
had not been planned, and family farm incomes have risen. Recent liberalization of agricultural
markets has provided a further boost. But a 35 percent decline in international paddy prices
brought the re-estimated economic rate of return down to 7.4 percent, from the 20.2 percent
projected at appraisal. The Project Completion Report also states that not enough attention was
given to improve farmer management of water in the tertiary systems. Nevertheless, sustainability
of the project works seems likely and institutional development is rated as substantial. The
Bank's lending program was curtailed in the late 1980s and no further R&M projects were
financed.
No audit is planned. A "tank" irrigation project in Myanmar's central dry zone is presently
being audited simultaneously with an impact assessment of it and another storage irrigation
project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Credit 1731-BA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE     .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .  . . . . . . . . . . 1
1. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.   Background   .1..  .             .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .   . .
3.  Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
4.   Project Design  and Organization                   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  3
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
6. Project Results .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
7. Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
8.   Bank  Performance   ...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
9.   Borrower Performance   ...  .                   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .    .    10
10.  Project Relationships               ...  .        .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .    .    10
11.  Consulting  Services             ...  .         .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .    .    10
12.  Project  Documentation              ...  .        .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .    .    10
PART  II:   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE    . . . . .  .11
PART  III:   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
1.    Related  Bank  Credits   ....  .                 .   .  .  .     .....  .     .   .  .  .  .  .    .  12
2.    Project  Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    13
3.    Credit  Disbursements   ....  .                  .   .  .  .     .....  .     .   .  .  .  .  .    .  14
4.    Project  Implementation   ....  .                    .  .  .     . .....  .       .  .  .   .  .    .  15
5.    Project  Cost  and  Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
6.    Project  Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
A.    Direct  Benefits    ....            .       ..  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   ..   .   .   .   .   .    .  20
B.    Economic  Impact    ....            .     ..   .   .   .  .   .  .   .   ..   .   .   .  .   .    .  21
C.    Financial  Impact  ....             ..   .       .  .   .  .   .  .   .   ..   .   .  .   .   .    .  24
D.    Studies    .....            ..   ..    .      ..   ..   ..   .     ..   ..   .    ..   .    .  24
7.    Status  of  Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
8.    Use  of  Bank  Resources    ....              .     .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .    .  25
ANNEXES
1.    Procurement  of  Goods   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
2.    Project  Consultancies    ....  .                    .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .    .  29
3.    Financial  Budgets  of  Farm Models   ...  .                    .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
4.    SAR  and  PCR  Projected  and Actual  Performance  of  Paddy Cultivation    32
5.    Economic  Analysis    ....             .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .  34
MAP
IBRD No. 18409R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ye-U Irrigation
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project in Myanmar, for which Credit No. 1731-BA
in the amount of SDR12.3 million (US$14.0 million equivalent) was approved on
August 26, 1986. The Credit closed, six months behind schedule, on December 31,
1993. The undisbursed balance of SDR2,588 (US$3,625) remaining after the last
disbursement on March 31, 1994, was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR prepared by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP), are
based, inter alia, on the findings of a PCR mission in January 1994; the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5534-BA, dated July 14, 1986; the Development Credit
Agreement dated October 15, 1986; the Bank's supervision reports; the Borrower's
Quarterly Reports; project files; interviews with the Bank staff associated with
the project; and the data supplied by the implementing agencies.
The Bank wishes to express its appreciation to the officials of the
Government and the implementing agencies for their valuable assistance in
preparing this PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to rehabilitate and modernize
the Ye-U irrigation and drainage system commanding 121,900 acres (ac) in the Mu
river basin, located in the Central Dry Zone (CDZ) of the country, mainly to
increase the production of rice in the area.   The restoration of the system to
its full irrigation and drainage capacity, coupled with provision for better
availability of agricultural inputs and extension service, was expected to
increase the production of paddy and non-paddy crops, thus raising the average
income of the 20,000 farming families in the system command area.  The other
objective was institutional strengthening of the Irrigation Department (ID) and
the Myanmar Agriculture Service (MAS), mainly through technical assistance,
training, and provision of facilities, including vehicles and equipment.
Implementation Experience
2.        The major portion of the rehabilitation and modernization (R&M) works
was completed as scheduled. The implementation of the R&M was entirely under
force account, using both manual labor and machines. However, the planned use
of construction equipment for earthwork on the canals and drains could not
materialize fully due to shortages of diesel and proper lubricants. The Credit
Agreement was amended in November 1987 to allow financing of oil and lubricant
imports. Cement, which was short for some time, also adversely affected progress
of work. Moreover, there were major delays in the procurement of equipment and
spare parts of construction equipment and other goods due to the Government's
time-consuming procedures for clearances.
3.        Although implementation was generally good, the project preparation
and appraisal had some flaws. There was a serious underestimation of quantities
of earthwork for the re-sectioning of the canals and drains as the appraisal
estimates were based on old surveys.   The functioning of the Kabo diversion
structure was not adequately examined.   Provision should have been made for
remedial measures to prevent the waste of water down the river at a time when it
could do a lot of good to the crops. Though shortcomings in the ID operation of
the system in respect of water management were recognized during project
preparation, sufficient provision was not made for consultants' time under TA to
identify the weaknesses and introduce an improved system operation. The project
also did not provide a strong program for the formation of water users' groups
at the water course (WC) level, and for training them to assure that the
available water was distributed to the entire command of each WC equitably and
that each WC was properly maintained.
4.        The actual project cost (US$39.78 million or Kyat 250 million) was
about 50% higher in US dollars than that estimated at appraisal (US$26.14 million
or K 230 million) due to underestimates of work quantities at appraisal, cost
increases, and exchange rate movements between appraisal and project completion.
The Credit closing date of June 30, 1993 was extended by only six months and the
Credit of SDR 12.3 million was almost fully disbursed on March 31, 1994, with
only SDR 2,588 (US$3,625) cancelled. The UNDP contribution increased from US$1.8
million at appraisal to US$3.4 million equivalent at project completion.



- iv -
Results
5.        The  project  has  been  successful  in achieving  the  objective  of
improving the irrigation and drainage system up to the WC offtake to the extent
originally intended. The system operation, however, continues to be deficient
in assuring proper distribution of water. Though control structures have been
constructed on direct outlets on the main canals to regulate the supplies, the
ID is hesitant to put these into operation due to the possibility of these being
damaged by farmers.
6.        Although the irrigated area under the first crop of paddy (the rainy
season) will most likely be 111,000 ac, compared to 121,000 ac estimated at
appraisal,  the project's agricultural impact will be clearly positive.   The
10,000 ac shortfall will be due to the fact that 2,000 ac will be grown with
rainfed non-paddy crops, while another 8,000 ac will not be cultivated due to
various agronomic and peace and order problems during the rainy season. However,
it is expected that an area of 17,000 ac will have a second paddy in the first
crop season (not foreseen at appraisal) , making the total paddy cropped area
128,000 ac,  some 7,000 ac larger than foreseen at appraisal.   At project
completion, the total cropped area in the main season had already reached 117,200
ac (101,335 ac first crop and 15,884 ac second crop) . The total expected maximum
non-paddy crop area (under rainfed and residual moisture) of 23,500 ac at full
development (compared to 18,000 ac at appraisal) is already expected to be
reached during 1993/94 (2,000 ac rainfed and the remainder on residual moisture).
7.        At full development in 1996,  the total paddy production would be
184,100 tons compared to 184,800 tons at appraisal. Yields at full development
are expected to remain at the 1993/94 level i.e., 1.438 tons/ac (1.50 tons at
appraisal). Almost the entire non-paddy crop area is planted with chick peas,
the production of which is about 3,900 tons (4,500 tons at appraisal) . No yield
increase of chick peas over the pre-project level was assumed at appraisal or
completion.   However,  the yield at project completion is estimated at 0.17
tons/ac, compared to 0.25 tons/ac at appraisal. Overall cropping intensity at
full development is expected to be higher than at appraisal (125% against 115%).
The project has, therefore, basically achieved more than anticipated at
appraisal.
8.        The institutional impact has been favorable as well, particularly with
regard to the mechanical branch (MB) of ID on which the project had focused in
terms of institutional strengthening. Twenty MB engineers were trained overseas;
MB technicians were given on-the-job training by expatriate specialists who also
streamlined the operations in MB workshops; and machines lying idle or those
which required minor repairs were put back in operation. Strengthening of MAS
was carried out mainly through overseas training and study tours for staff who
were subsequently placed in key positions either in headquarters or in the field.
9.        The project ERR is expected to be about 7.4% compared to the appraisal
estimate of 20%.   The ERR is lower mainly due to the significantly lower
international price of paddy at project completion compared to the price
projected at appraisal.  If the international prices projected at appraisal had
materialized, the re-estimated ERR at project completion would be about 17%.
Sustainability
10.       Sustainability of the project at its present level of efficiency will
be subject to proper maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system. Since
the Government is currently giving high priority to the maintenance of the
irrigation systems in the country and intends to allocate sufficient annual
operation and maintenance (O&M) funds, the project is considered sustainable.
Moreover, once the ID system operation procedures have been improved and
formation and strengthening of water user groups realized, crop production is
expected to increase further on a sustainable basis.   Cost recovery of K 61
million in 1992/93 was satisfactory compared to the annual O&M cost of K 7
million and investment cost of K 282 million.



-v -
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.       The main lessons learned are the following:
(a)  in formulating a R&M project for an irrigation system where farmer
groups involved in water management at farm level are known or thought
to exist, it is important to review in detail the status of these
farmers'  groups.    A well  designed component  dealing with water
management at farm level through full farmer participation should be
included in R&M projects (PCR, paras. 4.4, 5.4 and 8.1);
(b)  a R&M project should look into the system deficiencies up to the very
source of water and problems in diverting supplies to the system.
Should there be possibilities of obtaining better supplies from the
source, the necessary measures should be included under the project
(PCR, para. 4.2);
(c) in planning the improvement of an irrigation system, the issue of
whether the system operation procedures are conducive to equitable
distribution  of water  in all  sections  should be  reviewed.    If
procedures are deficient, studies for revised procedures and
introduction of an improved system should be pursued under the project
(PCR, para. 4.3); and
(d) the timely procurement of goods is critical for the implementation of
any project. The Borrower should, therefore, critically review its
procurement procedures and monitor closely the procurement process to
assure timely deliveries (PCR, para. 9.2).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitv
Project Name                  Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Modernization Project
Credit No.                    1731-BA
RVP Unit          :           East Asia and Pacific
Country                       Myanmar
Sector            :           Agriculture
Sub-sector                    Irrigation
2.   Background
2.1       The Fourth Five Year Plan (1982-83 to 1985-86) of the Government of
Myanmar (GOM) emphasized consolidation of investments in the medium term. For
irrigation, the Plan emphasized completion of on-going projects and improved
capacity utilization by rehabilitation of existing schemes to restore original
performance and to attain higher efficiency. These objectives were in harmony
with the recommendations of the two 1982 World Bank (WB) studies - "Irrigation
Sector Review" and "Priorities for Continued Growth".
2.2       In line with this policy, the rehabilitation and modernization
(R&M) needs of the various existing irrigation systems in the Central Dry
Zone (CDZ) of the country, which has maximum potential both for increase in
rice production and crop diversification, were quickly assessed. Priority was
accorded to the R&M of the Ye-U irrigation system, commanding 121,000 acres
(ac) of mainly rice area in the Sagaing division. Although the Ye-U system
does not receive water in the dry season to irrigate a second paddy or non-
paddy crop, the preference for Ye-U rehabilitation and modernization (R&M) was
based on the need to reduce the rice deficit in the Sagaing division and to
support the development needs of the region. For the R&M of other irrigation
systems in CDZ under a long range program, the sector policy also emphasized
the strengthening of the planning and implementation capacity of the
implementing agencies.
2.3       To support the GOM program, the International Development
Association (IDA) agreed to provide funding for the Ye-U Irrigation
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (Ye-U project) which included
strengthening of the concerned implementing agencies. At GOM request,
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) was assigned in June 1982 the
task of the preparation of the Ye-U project. FAO/CP had earlier been
associated in the identification of the Ye-U project and preliminary studies.
In May 1983, FAO/CP was also assigned the task of formulation of proposals for
an Equipment Inventory Management System (EIMS) and the strengthening of the
mechanical branch (MB) workshops of the Irrigation Department (ID). FAO/CP
submitted in May 1984 separate preparation reports for (i) Ye-U R&M and (ii)
improvement of MB facilities for operating and maintaining the construction
equipment. Both these reports formed the basis for the Ye-U project
appraisal, which was undertaken in November 1984.



-2-
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Project Obiectives.  The project was to be implemented over a
period of six years and had the main objectives of:
(a)  raising farmers' income and living standards in the Ye-U command
area through improved irrigation, easier access to agricultural
inputs, and better extension services;
(b)  strengthening the ID's capacity to plan and implement the R&M of
irrigation infrastructure through the elaboration of a Master Plan
for the rehabilitation of at least five major schemes; and
(c)  creating the capacity within the ID's Mechanical Branch for
effective management of ID's fleet of heavy equipment, including
overhauling and major repairs.
3.2       Project Components.  The project had the following components:
(a)  Irriciation Civil Works
(i)  Rehabilitation.  Repairs to the Ye-U intake structure,
bifurcation structure, cross-drainage and drop structures, head
regulators, road and foot bridges; and resectioning of the
main, distributary and minor canals, cross drains, feeder
drains, and the Payanpaga and Moksi Chaungs (trunk drains);
(ii) System Modernization. Construction of a sediment excluder, an
ejector, cross regulators, control structures at the heads of
minor canals and water courses, and side and tail escapes in
the main canals; installation of measuring devices at branch
canal heads and at distributary intakes; improvement of
inspection roads; and provision of telephone communication for
operation of the Ye-U system;
(iii)  Incremental O&M.  Increased outlays for operation and
maintenance of the Ye-U system, in order to ensure adequate
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure; and
(iv) On-farm Development. Remodelling and realignment of water
courses to limit the command area to 75 ac.
(b)  Earthmovinc  Equipment.  Procurement of 20 items of major
construction equipment, 51 items of minor equipment, and spare
parts for R&M work.
(c) Construction Supervision
(i)  Construction Camps.  Construction of offices, dormitories,
stores, and equipment repair facilities for implementing the
R&M; and
(ii)  Engineering and Administration.  Provision of office and
engineering equipment, running expenses, vehicles, and about
500 personnel of the ID to be redeployed from other projects.



- 3 -
(d)  Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance
(i)  ID (Civil Engineering). Provision of technical assistance,
counterpart staff, and facilities, including vehicles, for
preparation of a long-term master plan for irrigation system
rehabilitation and of a follow-on project; provision of
technical assistance, counterpart staff, sampling equipment,
model studies, and training for design of structures for
sediment exclusion and R&M of Ye-U system as well as for
improved system operation, based on new operational guidelines;
(ii)   ID (Mechanical Enaineering). Provision of technical
assistance, counterpart staff, and facilities for establishing
an equipment inventory management system (EIMS), and for
training of operators and mechanics; and provision of
fellowships for training in management of construction,
equipment operation and specialized repair, and running the
training centre; and
(iii) Myanmar Agriculture Service (MAS).1/ Addition of about 60
extension personnel, and provision of vehicles and fertilizer
godowns for the three townships in which Ye-U command area is
located; and provision of fellowships in rice agronomy,
cropping systems, and water management.
(e) Mechanical Circle Workshops
Ci)    Mechanical Circle Services.  Provision of additional fuel
and lubricant facilities, and tools and consumables for base
and regional workshops and engine overhaul shops; upgrading
of a hydraulic components workshop; and construction of a
dredger base at Okkyin; and
(ii) Construction Equinment Spare Parts. Provision of spare
parts for overhaul of selected construction equipment, to be
used in other irrigation projects.
(f)   Monitoring and Evaluation.  Provision of staff support, office
supplies, and computer software to MAS for the execution of
benchmark, mid-term, and final agro-economic surveys.
4. Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       Overall design of civil works was good although some changes were
introduced during implementation. Based on the results of model tests for
sediment control, the ejector in the canal was omitted. Also following
detailed analysis of water level control in the main canal for feeding the
distributaries, seven (instead of 11 proposed at appraisal) cross regulators
were found to be sufficient, and the proposed new escapes (except one) were
not considered necessary.
4.2       Due to a design oversight during preparation and appraisal, the
much needed improvement in the facilities at the Kabo weir on the Mu river,
for diverting the available river water into the Ye-U as well as Shwebo
irrigation systems, had not been included in the project. The Kabo weir has
drop shutters on the crest which are dropped from the two ends of the weir,
whenever the river has a flood. For raising of these shutters to pond water
for feeding the canals, however, the labor has to go to each shutter, and the
1/ This was referred to as the Agriculture Corporation (AC) in the SAR. The
AC became MAS in 1987.



- 4 -
operation has to wait till the depth of water overflowing the weir is
considered safe for the labor. Water, which could otherwise be diverted to
the two irrigation systems for additional paddy irrigation, goes down the
river to waste. Replacement of the shutters by a rubber dam or installing
suitable mechanical devices for raising the shutters (while water overflows
the weir crest) should have been included in the project.
4.3       The design of interventions to improve water management was poor.
Though weakness in water management was recognized at the appraisal stage,
little concrete action was proposed to (a) improve ID system operation for
assuring timely and sufficient delivery of water at the heads of farmer-
managed water-courses (WC), and (b) establish and train water user groups on
each WC to ensure that each farmer got his share of water and that losses were
minimized by good WC maintenance. The project should have provided an in-
depth review of the existing operational system, which results in excess
irrigation in some sections and shortages in practically all the tail areas.
On the basis of this review, a revised system operations pattern should have
been formulated, introduced, and problems, if any, sorted out during the
implementation period. The project provided only four person- months of
specialized technical assistance to ID for the establishment of improved
operational procedures for the Ye-U system. This was inadequate as the expert
also had responsibility for design of R&M work. The available time was
sufficient only for establishing the water level control on the main canals
for different flows, which determined the required number of cross regulators
and escapes, and for designing the R&M structures. An analysis of the
irrigation depth on each channel from 1984 to 1992 shows that the
distributaries lower down in the system continue to experience water shortage,
and confirms the need for a change in the system operations pattern to
ameliorate the situation.
4.4       Strengthening water management at WC level was also not adequately
dealt with during preparation and appraisal. The importance of forming and
strengthening water users' groups (which do not exist for each WC) and their
training for proper distribution of water and maintenance of WC to minimize
losses was not recognized. Rather than including this as a separate
component, the project provided only for advice to farmers by ID, without any
additional staff or funding. This omission was probably due to an erroneous
conclusion by the project preparation team (July 1983 report): "The
impression has been obtained that the farmers are fully capable to organize
O&M of the WC among themselves. No changes in the present situation are
proposed." No remedial steps were proposed to rectify the situation during
subsequent project preparation or appraisal, although the preparation team had
contradicted itself by also acknowledging that: "During periods of short
supply, no serious efforts are being made to evenly distribute water among the
farmers. Normally when it is his turn, a farmer gets as much water as he
needs. Traditionally, farmers at the head of WC receive water first."
4.5       An inter-departmental Project Coordination Committee (PCC) was set
up by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to oversee the project, find and
pursue solutions to the inter-ministry problems, and provide administrative
decisions on project matters. The PCC was successful in providing clearances
necessary in the procurement process but was ineffective in ensuring quick
decisions and making necessary arrangements for timely procurement processing.
The Project Unit (PU) was also formed at the project level, comprising ID,
MAS, and Townships' staff. The PU functioned informally, but satisfactorily,
and met many times to discuss the project issues, although minutes were not
recorded.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       General.  By July 1987, the project organization was mostly in
place (camps and buildings for the project staff were established) and project
implementation commenced immediately after the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) became effective in July 1987. During the first working season from



December 1987 to May 1988 (the annual period of canal closure), mainly surveys
and the graveling of roads were carried out. The resectioning of the main
canal commenced in the next working season (1988-89) but progress was hampered
due to political unrest in the country, resulting in the demobilization of the
technical assistance personnel for one year (September 1988 to September
1989).
5.2       As envisaged at appraisal, the entire civil works were carried out
by force account, using both manual labor and machines. In the beginning
(working seasons 1987-88 and 1988-89), the machine work was affected by
shortages of diesel oil and proper lubricants. The situation improved after
the DCA was amended in November 1987 and project finance was provided for the
procurement of crude oil (which was processed in the country) and lubricants.
The situation, however, worsened again in 1991-92 and 1992-93, restricting the
full use of machines. In order to finish the remaining resectioning of the
drains before the 1993 rains, ID mobilized a labor force which peaked at
20,000. The Credit closing date was extended for six months to December 31,
1993. The Credit was almost fully disbursed on March 31, 1994 (para. 5.13),
although the R&M work was about 85% complete at that time. ID expects to
complete the remaining work by June 30, 1996, with the GOM's own resources.
5.3       Quantity estimates in the project preparation report for earthwork
on the main canal and the distributaries were based on old surveys (1975 in
the case of distributaries). These were found during implementation to be
serious underestimates.   Actual quantity was seven times in the case of
distributaries. The actual quantities of earthworks for the resectioning of
the drains were also considerably higher than the earlier estimates, which
were based on an assumed percentage of the overall design sections needed for
the drains. Although few key drains were excavated to the full section, and
others to half the bed width required, the excavation quantity was still about
twice the original estimate.
5.4       On-Farm Development.  The program of remodelling or splitting the
water courses (WC) to limit their command area to 75 ac did not meet with much
success due to: (i) the lack of farmer interest (farmers indicated to ID that
the original WC had existed for a long time and were being used to distribute
water among themselves); and (ii) an erroneous assessment during project
preparation in respect of the limit on WC command (no surveys were undertaken
to confirm that the 75 ac was an appropriate size). ID, therefore, decided,
although quite late, on initially remodelling only WC irrigating more than
200 ac, into minors owned and managed by farmers with pipes on each field
ditch serving a couple of farmers. At Credit closing, only five such WC had
been rehabilitated. Since the experience with the WC has been encouraging, ID
has decided to pursue the WC remodelling. However, farmers are expected to
carry out the work themselves under ID guidance (ID has been reluctant from
the beginning to seek budget allocation for improving WC, in spite of the
provision under the project, since WC has always been the farmers'
responsibility).
5.5       Construction Equipment and Other Procurement.  The status of the
overseas procurement is summarized in Annex 1. Due to time-consuming GOM
procedures, there were long delays in finalizing the award of contracts after
the opening of the bids (extending up to 24 months in the worst case, the
minimum being 12 months). The responsibility for decisions lies with several
committees, which are difficult to convene. These committees did not give
much importance to making award decisions within the bid validity period. The
procurement of vehicles (including bicycles and motorcycles) was deleted by
GOM during project implementation. ID used vehicles from its own fleet. Only
four four-wheel drive vehicles were procured under the IDA Credit for the TA
component. Due to lack of transport facilities, the mobility of the village
extension and tract (group of villages) extension managers was low. The
supplies of materials that were to be provided by GOM such as cement, diesel
oil and lubricants, were not received on time or in sufficient quantity, thus
adversely affecting progress of work.



5.6       Studies.  UNDP provided additional funding for preparing the
feasibility study for R&M of the Shwebo system, which was considered as having
the highest priority out of the five systems studied under the project. This
study has confirmed the economic and technical viability of the follow-up
project for R&M of the Shwebo system, but does not 'include a component for
strengthening of the farmers' groups and their training for better O&M and
water management. The design of this component, which would have required
extensive dialogue with farmers, and which could not be attempted for want of
resources, would need to be undertaken in detail before the Shwebo project is
implemented.
5.7       The benchmark survey of the agro-economic conditions in the project
area, to be carried out by the monitoring and evaluation committee (M&EC) in
MAS, was two years late. The report was submitted in August 1991, although
field work was carried out in 1989. The report provided excellent
information. A quick and brief survey was undertaken by M&EC in January 1994
to have a general assessment of the project impact; a full survey is planned
for April 1994.
5.8       Maior Repairs/Overhaul of Construction Equipment.  The entire fleet
of construction equipment in MB was examined for its serviceability. Out of
1,879 machines, 725 were found to be obsolete and beyond economic repairs, but
only about 50% of the latter were scrapped. The other 50% have been retained
for possible use of components or metal. Although equally important,
scrapping of obsolete spares was not attempted under the project, mainly due
to lack of clear MOA policy.
5.9       Farmers' Organizations and Water Management.  The project envisaged
that ID would advise farmers' groups on WC operation and water-sharing during
low discharges as well as provide guidelines for WC maintenance.
Unfortunately, a specific program for forming, strengthening and training the
groups never materialized due to lack of funding under the project. The
strengthening of the farmers' groups for assuring equity of water distribution
and good maintenance being a long-term process requiring continuous effort, ID
or MAS could not be expected to bring significant changes in the existing
system during the project implementation period.
5.10      The age-old operation of the irrigation system by rotation of water
deliveries to various distributaries on a fixed schedule did not undergo any
change during project implementation. The excessive water consumption in one
part of the system, specially on the direct outlets from the main canal and in
the upper part of the system, and shortages in the other parts, therefore,
continue to exist. This implementation drawback was mainly due to a design
flaw (para. 4.3). ID is now planning to control the deliveries to each
section of the irrigation system on the basis of actual requirement of the
cropped areas and allowing for rainfall.
5.11      Technical Assistance.  For implementation of the TA, it was agreed
by GOM, IDA and UNDP to contract consulting firms instead of individual
experts envisaged at appraisal. Details of the TA are at Annex 2.
5.12      Project Cost and Financinq.  The actual total project cost in US$
was about 50W higher than the SAR estimate (US$39.78 million compared to
US$26.14 million), and only 10W higher in terms of Kyats (K 250 million
compared to K 230 million). In addition to the exchange rate movement between
appraisal and project completion, the main factors for higher actual project
cost were: (i) an increase in the cost of construction materials and labor,
especially after 1988; (ii) an increase in the quantities of earthworks on the
resectioning of the distributaries and drains; and (iii) the dislocations
caused by the political disturbances in the country. The actual foreign
exchange requirement (US$13.87 million) also exceeded the SAR estimate
(US$10.95 million) mainly due to procurement of crude oil and lubricants not
included at appraisal.



-7-
5.13      An additional investment of about US$4 million is still to be made
for the remaining works (para. 5.2), which GOM will complete by June 1996 with
its own resources. UNDP increased its contribution to US$3.4 million from
US$1.8 million. The IDA credit of SDR 12.3 millon was almost fully disbursed
with only SDR 2,588 (US$3,625) cancelled.
6. Project Results
6.1       Impact on the Irrigation System.  The installation of the excluder
at Kabo weir has reduced the entry of coarser sediments into the Ye-U canal,
reducing the clearing requirements. The cross regulators, now available for
the water level control in the main canal, are being utilized to control the
supply of water to the distributaries. Some improvement in system performance
has occurred and the minimum area irrigated on each channel during the period
1990 to 1993 has been higher than the minimum for the period 1984 to 1989.
However, the uncontrolled direct outlets (DO) on the main canal, irrigating
about 20,000 ac, still run incessantly. Though control structures have been
constructed under the project, the controls are not yet operational since ID
is of the opinion that the farmers may damage the controls once the supplies
on DO are regulated. ID and MAS have recently started contacting these
farmers to convince them of the need to regulate their irrigation supplies to
permit irrigation of another 15,000 ac lower down. Eventually, farmers will
be responsible for opening and closing the gates on the DO on a prescribed
schedule, in conformity with the overall revised operational pattern for the
irrigation system.
6.2       Agricultural Impact.  The impact of the project on the agricultural
development has been positive, although the irrigated area under the first
crop of paddy, anticipated in the SAR to increase from 96,400 ac (pre-project)
to 121,000 ac (full development of the entire command), is not likely to be
achieved. The main reason is that about 8,000 ac in the command area are not
cultivated in the first crop season due to various agronomic and peace and
order problems. This was not known at appraisal. Detailed review of the
command area by MAS and ID has indicated that at full development (which is
expected to be reached in three years hence), the first crop of irrigated
paddy will not exceed 111,000 ac. In addition, about 2,000 ac will be under
rainfed non-paddy crops in the main crop season and about half of the 8,000 ac
remaining uncultivated during the first crop season will be cultivated with
non-paddy crops in the dry season (on residual moisture as being practiced
already). Furthermore, owing to MAS's extension effort, a second irrigated
paddy crop, which was not anticipated at appraisal, is now being grown (para.
6.3) and is expected to result in a total irrigated paddy area at full
development of 128,000 ac, which is larger than foreseen at appraisal. At
project completion (1993-94), the first and second irrigated paddy crops
reached 101,335 ac and 15,884 ac respectively, or a total irrigated paddy area
of 117,200 ac.
6.3       Expecting better availability of water with R&M of the system, MAS
commenced motivating farmers in 1987 for a second crop of paddy (during the
rainy season). This innovation has been successful so far. Beginning with a
modest 407 ac of the second irrigated paddy crop after other crops in 1987-88,
the area in 1993-94 rose to 15,884 ac (14,559 ac after paddy and 1,325 ac
after other crops). MAS expects the second paddy area to reach about
17,000 ac at full development in 1996. The total irrigated paddy area would
then be 128,000 ac. The total production of paddy at full development is now
estimated at 184,100 tons (SAR expectation was 184,800 tons) assuming that
yield of paddy will remain at the 1993/94 level of 1.438 tons/ac (SAR 1.50
tons/ac).
6.4       Non-paddy crops (predominantly chick peas) on residual moisture in
irrigated paddy areas reached about 17,000 ac in 1992-93. Total non-paddy
crop area was about 22,000 ac in that year. MAS expects that the area under
non-paddy crops would reach about 23,500 ac in 1993/94 and would remain



- 8 -
unchanged at full development. This is about 30% higher than the appraisal
estimate of 18,000 ac. Since the bulk of the non-paddy crops will continue to
be chick peas, the entire area under non-paddy crops is considered as growing
chick peas (in conformity with the SAR assumption). On this basis, chick
peas production has been estimated at 3,900 tons (compared to 4,500 tons at
appraisal). The yield is expected to remain unchanged from pre-project level
estimated at 0.166 tons/ac (the SAR also assumed no change in yield but
estimated the yield at 0.25 tons/ac).
6.5       The cropping intensity on the command area of 121,900 ac is thus
expected to reach 125% at full development in 1996 in spite of 8,000 ac
remaining fallow in the rainy season (para. 6.2). This compares well with the
appraisal expectation of a cropping intensity at full development of 115%.
6.6       Institutional Impact.  Apart from assisting ID in formulating its
first Master Plan for the rehabilitation and modernization of the five
irrigation systems in the Central Dry Zone (para. 5.6), the project's main
emphasis was on strengthening MB. Twenty MB staff engineers were trained
overseas (about three months each) in senior management techniques,
instruction methods, supervision of workshop operations, diagnosis of faults
and trouble shooting in machines, control of equipment operations in the
field, and inventory control of equipment and spares. In addition, MB staff
were trained in their respective fields by expatriate specialists in machine
shop practice, welding, electrical repairs, etc. As a result of this training
and changes made in the layout of shops by the same expatriate specialists,
the work in the MB workshops has been streamlined. Several workshop
machineries that required some minor repairs have been made operational, a few
additional machines have been procured to fill the gaps while other unused
machines lying idle in stores have been brought to workshops for effective
use. The training consultant helped MB in upgrading the Yangon Training
Center facilities and techniques for training the mechanics and operators, and
in preparing course materials, which have been very helpful in establishing
local regular training programs which are proceeding satisfactorily.
6.7       Strengthening of MAS involved overseas training.  Eleven MAS
township extension managers were trained overseas for a total of 48 person-
months: four in farm level management and three in cropping systems for about
five months each; the others benefitted from study tours. The trained staff
have been placed at MAS's headquarters and several townships for conducting
training of farmers and MAS staff in addition to their normal duties.
6.8       Rate of Return.  As in the SAR, the economic rate of return of the
project has been calculated considering the investments for R&M only and the
benefits from the incremental agricultural production. The investments for
strengthening ID and MAS, as well as for procurement of workshop machinery and
tools etc., have been excluded; these investments have resulted mainly in
institutional benefits, which cannot be easily quantified. The re-estimated
ERR is about 7.4% (SAR estimate was 20.2%). The reduction in ERR is mainly
due to: (i) a significantly lower international price for rice in 1993,
compared to the price projected at appraisal; and (ii) a higher, more
realistic threshold for the without project situation in the PCR, compared to
the SAR, which reduced the incremental benefit from the project at full
development.2/ If the international price of rice projected at appraisal
had materialized, the re-estimated ERR at project completion would be about
17%.
6.9       The farm family income from a six ac farm would increase by about
15% where the farm (Model I) had pre-project irrigation in the whole area; 20%
2/   The paddy production in the without project situation for the calculation
of the ERR at completion is based on the average of the actual production
for the period of 1983/84 to 1988/89 (133,500 tons), which was higher
than the production in the without project situation of 131,000 tons
assumed at appraisal (see Annex 4, para. 1).



- 9 -
where the farm (Model II) increased its irrigated area by 100%; and 260% where
the farm (Model III) increased its irrigated area from one ac to 3.6 ac while
the rest remained fallow. The SAR figures for the first two models are 9% and
38%. The comparison of Model III is not really meaningful since the SAR
assumptions for this model were not realistic: SAR assumed 100t irrigation
after project completion (and a farm income increase of 289%), whereas
irrigation would be at most 84% (see Part III, Section 6C and Annex 3).
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The present project situation is clearly sustainable.  GOM
attributes high priority to the financing of O&M of the irrigation systems for
ensuring their full irrigation capacity. However, the maximization of the
irrigated crops area (not yet reached) can only be attained with: (i) active
monitoring and control, on the part of ID staff, of the water deliveries to
each distributary and water course; and (ii) full farmer participation in
water management at water course level. ID efforts have been insufficient for
improving the age-old regulation pattern of the system. Now that controls are
available, ID should be able to assure that no channel gets more than its
share, and that in dry years the deficit is properly distributed. The
strategy would vary each year due to the variation in Mu river flows.
However, unless farmers' groups become strong and fully involved at water
course level in maintenance and optimum utilization of water available to
them, R&M measures alone will not maximize the impact of water on production.
7.2       The cost recovery is being effected directly through an average
land tax of about Kyats 2.5 per ac (variation from Kyats 8 for first class
paddy lands to Kyats 0.5 per ac for rain-fed areas) and an irrigation charge
of Kyats 10 per ac. In addition, there is an indirect recovery through
collection of paddy by GOM (10 baskets3/ of 46 pounds each per ac) at prices
(K50/basket)4/ lower than the market price (K180/basket). The total cost
recovery obtained through these measures was about K 61 million in 1992/93 and
will increase this year (1993/94) due to the increased obligatory paddy
collection by GOM. Project investment costs to be recovered (mainly R&M) have
been estimated in 1993 prices at K 282 million; total O&M annual cost in
1992/93 was about K7 million. The cost recovery of about K 61 million is
therefore, satisfactory, and is a contributing factor to sustainability.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Overall Bank performance and, in particular, the Bank's supervision
was satisfactory. The only fundamental misstep was at the design stage when
the farmer participation factor was neglected. At the time of appraisal, the
Bank should have been consciously aware of the importance of this factor owing
to the experience it had with irrigation projects in other countries. The SAR
was misinformed when stating that water courses were controlled by farmers'
groups and it is perhaps for that reason that the SAR had treated this
essential project ingredient in such a cursory manner.
8.2       Water management at systems level remained inefficient and could
not be suitably amended as the TA to ID for its improvement did not provide
sufficient time to look into this aspect, review the problem and find a viable
solution. The specialist concerned had other responsibilities and could not
delve into the operational procedures of the Ye-U system. When the TOR were
prepared for TA, the Bank and the Office of Project Services should have
ensured that the expected tasks could be effectively carried out in the time
allowed.
3/ This increased to 12 baskets in 1993/94.
4/ This increased to K70/basket in 1993/94.



- 10 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       The Borrower was very keen to implement the Project on schedule and
with maximum diligence possible after the initial delay in signing the UNDP
Project Documents. However, the Borrower could not provide diesel, proper
lubricants and cement to match the construction schedule. Eventually in 1988,
it agreed to the persistent Bank recommendation to import crude oil under the
Credit.
9.2       The Borrower's procedures for the evaluation of bids  for award of
contracts for the supply of equipment and materials were too time-consuming
and resulted in dislocation of work schedule. For each contract, there were
37 steps, a few of which had 15 sub-steps. The procurement delays were mainly
attributable to the finalization of review by the various committees which had
representation from several agencies other than ID and could not meet on time.
Due to the procurement delays, the TA specialists had to be rescheduled twice
while the training program was affected by the delay in the procurement of
workshop machinery and spare parts for the equipment selected for overhaul.
9.3       The Borrower changed the Project Director twice which caused,some
dislocation in project implementation. The ID and MAS field organizations
were adequate for execution of civil works and agricultural extension, but
could not take concrete action to form farmers' groups by water course and
strengthen them for proper distribution of water and maintenance of water
courses. ID and MAS intend to take serious action on this aspect soon.
10. Project Relationships
10.1      Throughout implementation, the project was marked by the most
cordial relationship between the Bank and GOM, although the Bank continuously
expressed serious concerns at the slow pace of procurement processing. The
relationship between UNDP and GOM and the Bank was also cooperative and
congenial.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The consultancies played a major role in the implementation of the
project and were effective in all respects. Compared to the initial SAR
provision for TA and training, the actual cost increased significantly due to:
(i) dislocation for about one year caused by the political unrest in the
country; (ii) increase in the scope of work (addition of Shwebo feasibility
study); and (iii) higher costs of overseas training.
12. Project Documentation
12.1      The appraisal report provided a useful framework for both the Bank
and the Borrower to review project implementation. Both ID and MAS maintained
excellent project records, cost accounting system, procurement documentation,
and data on areas and yields of the different crops grown in the project area.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(NOT RECEIVED)



- 12 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Credit No. and Title                            Purpose                            Year of            Status
Approval
Cr. 483-BA                  Rehabilitate and extend flood protection embankments,       1974      Completed in 1978.
Irrigation I                repair available construction equipment, supply irrigation
pumps to farmers, and construct jute baling facilities.
Cr. 642-BA                  Construct new and rehabilitate existing flood protection   1975       Completed in 1985.
Lower Burma Paddyland       embankments. excavate drainage channels, and reclaim
Development                 abandoned land.
Cr. 745-BA                   Improve research capability of six central farms, develop  1977      Completed in 1984.
Seeds Development            seed program for rice and cotton, create processing
facilities for seed and storage, pilot project for ground nut
seed storage in lower Burma, overseas training of staff.
Cr. 835-BA                   Flood protection and drainage of 175,000 ac including      1978      Completed in 1990.
Paddyland Development II    reclamation of 50,000 ac abandoned lands,procurement of
construction and agricultural equipment, and establishing
workshops in the project area.
Cr. 1031-BA                  Promote cultivation of non-paddy crops by extension of     1980      Completed in 1991.
Kinda Dain Multipurpose     irrigation to 113,500 ac and stabilize paddy production in
88,000 ac by rehabilitating its irrigation system, as well as
generate hydropower by constructing a 236 ft. high storage
dam and appurtenant works.
Cr. 1092-BA                  Improve storage facilities at selected locations within the  1981    Completed in 1986.
Grain Storage               country.
Cr. 1315-BA                 Construct an 82 ft. high dam, rehabilitate and extend       1982      Completed in 1990.
Tank Irrigation             existing irrigation system for 5,000 ac. Construct another
dam, 92 ft. high for supplying water to 850 ac of
orchards, and 2,000 ac of paddy.
Cr. 1381-BA                 Construct 106 deep tubewells, irrigation systems, and      1983       Completed in 1992.
Groundwater Irrigation       power lines. Provide agricultural support program for
extension, crop trials, and strengthening ID and MAS.
Cr. 1616-BA                  Strengthen seed production and management capability of    1986      Completed in 1992.
Seeds Development II        MAS. and establish efficient seed multiplication
programme.
Cr. 1707-BA                  Improve efficiency of rice milling through rehabilitation of  1986   Work is in progress.
Grain Storage 11            existing facilities and construction of new mills.



- 13 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                           Date Planned            Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification 1/              February 1982                                 February 1982
Preparation 2/                  March 1983              April 1984             May 1984
Appraisal 3/                  November 1983           November 1984         November 1984
Credit Negotiations 4/                                                         June 1986
Board Approval 5/                May 1984               March 1985          August 26, 1986
Credit Signatures             October 15, 1986                             October 15, 1986
Credit Effectiveness 6/       January 15. 1987                               July 13, 1987
Project Completion           December 31, 1992         June 30, 1993              7/
Credit Closing                 June 30, 1993        December 31, 1993     December 31, 1993
The "date planned" for Identification to Board Approval, is taken from the Back-to-Office Report of March
1983.
The "date revised" for Preparation to Board Approval is taken from the Project Brief of April 1984.
1/ At identification, the Project was included in the list of projects (under the five year investment program
1982-83 to 1986-87) submitted to July 1982 meeting of the Myanmar Aid Group. It did not appear in
Myanmar fourth Four Year Plan (1982-83 to 1985-86). IDA received commitment from GOM for
commencing implementation in 1984-85, if the project preparation was completed and IDA assistance was
approved by then.
2/ The main concern during the preparation was the marginal economic viability (minor increase in paddy
yields, little scope for second crop, benefits mainly from reduction in flooding of 20,000 ac). Drainage
requirements were found to be much larger than envisaged initially. Other concerns were lack of a long-
term plan for rehabilitation of irrigation systems, insufficient funding for O&M, insufficient ID capacity and
resources (shortage of manpower for technical decision making, diesel availability), and cost recovery.
3/ In addition to the concerns at preparation, the appraisal mission concerns were (i) funding for model tests at
a well known laboratory, (ii) need for increased O&M allocations, (iii) strengthening ID capacity for Project
implementation and decision making, and (iv) obtaining GOM agreement for a proper component for
reinforcing MB for fleet management etc.
4/ At negotiations, GOM requested for additional funding for spares for major overhaul of the old ID
construction equipment, reduction of procurement of new equipment, and reduction of IDA assistance from
SDR 20 million to SDR 12.3 million.
5/ The processing of the Credit after negotiations had a setback due to lessening of GOM interest in the training
component for strengthening MB by use of expatriate consultants.
6/ The only condition for effectiveness was the signing of the UNDP Project documents for TA which took
long to finalize.
7/ GOM expects to complete the balance R&M work by June 1996.



- 14 -
3. Credit Disbursements (SDR and US$ million)
Estimated Cumulative                                  Actual as % of Estirnate
Bank FY         Quarter                                     Actual        Actual
US$           SDR          (US$)         (SDR)           US$          SDR
1988             1             0.05          0.044         0.76           0.60          1,520       1,364
2             0.10          0.088         0.76          0.60            700          682
3            0.250          0.220         0.76          0.60            228          273
4             0.40          0.351          1.11         0.86            278          245
1989             1             1.40          1.230         4.66           3.61           383          293
2             2.40          2.109         4.66           3.61           194          171
3             4.10          3.602         4.66           3.61           114          103
4             5.80          5.096         4.66           3.61            80          71
1990             1             6.80          5.974         5.11           3.97            75          66
2             7.80          6.853         5.11          3.97             66          58
3             8.60          7.556         5.11           3.97            60          53
4             9.40          8.259         6.27          4.83             66           56
1991             1            10.05          8.830         6.27           4.83            63           55
2            10.70          9.401         8.79          6.57             80          70
3            11.20          9.840         9.09          6.78             81          69
4            11.70         10.279         9.79          7.32             84          71
1992             1            12.10         10.631         9.95           7.44            82           70
2            12.50         10.982         11.93          8.86            95          81
3            12.85         11.290         12.69         9.41             99          83
4            13.20         11.597         13.43          9.95           102           86
1993             1            13.45         11.817         15.13         11.12           112           94
2            13.70         12.036         15.76         11.57           115          96
3            13.85         12.168        16.12          11.83           116          97
4            14.00         12.300         16.57         12.14           118           99
1994             1            14.00         12.300         16.57         12.14           118           99
2            14.00         12.300         16.57         12.14           118           99
3            14.00         12.300         16.78         12.30           120          100
The date for final disbursement was March 3. 1994.
A sum of SDR2,588 (US$3,625), remaining after final disbursement, was cancelled.
The disbursement in US$ exceeded US$14.0 million (equivalent of SDR12.3 million provided under the Credit) since at Credit signature
one SDR was equal to US$1.138, while at Credit closure one SDR was equal to US$1.408.



- 15 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicators (Annex 2 of SAR)               Units         Appraisal Estimnate     Revised Estirmate         Actual
A.    DELAYED MAINTENANCE (2)
(a) Intake structure
Repairs                                                    job                                       completed
(b) Main canals repairs
Resectioning                         th. cyd               945                    658                   658
Bifurcation str.                                           job                                       completed
Cross-drainage str.                  numbers                29                                         27(2)
Drop str.                            numbers                10                                         5(5)
Bridges                              numbers                47                                         41(6)
Bridges (new)                        numbers                 -                     4                    3(1)
(c) DY and Minors
Resectioning                         th. cyd               218                                         1,460
Offtake str.                         numbers                42                                         32(10)
Drop                                 numbers               155                                         63(92)
Bridges                              numbers                77                                         18(59)
Heads of minors                      numbers                -                      11                   9(2)
Bank protection                                            job                                       completed
(d) Drainage & Flood Protection
Resectioning drains                  th. cyd              2,580                  4,929               4,902(27)
New main drains                      th. cyd               970                     44                   44
New other drains                     th. cyd               168                 not required
Reconstruct bridge                   numbers                I                  not required
Flood embankment                     th. cyd               550                     66                   66
B.    SYSTEM MODERNIZATION (3)
(a) Sediment Reduction
Excluder                                                   job                                       completed
Ejector                                                    job                 not required
(b) Operation Control MC
Cross regulators                     numbers                11                     7                     7
Side/tail escapes                    numbers                10                      1                   -(1)
Siltation spurs                                            job                                       completed
Measuring device MBC                                       job                                       completed
Control dir. out.                    numbers                                      219                 103(116)
Control on minors                    numbers                                       4                    1(3)



- 16 -
Indicators (Annex 2 of SAR)                Units          Appraisal Estimate       Revised Estimate           Actual
(c) Operation Control DY
Measuring devices                     numbers                 42                                            42
Offtakes of minors                    numbers                 22                                            22
(d) Roads and Communication
Road to Kabo                         '000 feet                45                                            45
Inspection roads                      '000 feet             312.5                                         312.5
Communication system                                         job                                        completed
C.    ON-FARM WORKS (5)
Resection WC                          '000 cyd               390                                         37(353)
Offtakes of WC                        numbers                1,615                  1,050                574(476)
D.    BUILDINGS (7)
(a) R&M:       Field offices              numbers                 6                       7                     7
Residences                 numbers                221                     138                   138
Workshop, stores           numbers                 9                       15                    15
Temporary camps            numbers                 18                      3                     3
(b) MAS:       Demon camps                numbers                 3                                             3
Godowns                    numbers                 2                                             2
(c) MB:        Stores & offices           numbers                 15                      12                    12
Loading platform                                  job                                       not yet done
Jetty                                             job                                       not yet done
E.    PROCUREMENT (6. 8)
(a) Construction Equipment
Excavating and loading                numbers                 5                                             5
Tractors and graders                  numbers                 4                                             4
Hauling equipment                     numbers                 12                      11                    11
Miscellaneous                         numbers                 50                      25                    25
(b) Jeeps, motorcycles, cycles
R&M use                               numbers                 20            procurement disallowed
MAS use                               numbers                114            procurement disallowed
Workshop strengthening                numbers                 4                                             4



- 17 -
Indicators (Annex 2 of SAR)               Units          Appraisal Estimate      Revised Estimnate          Actual
(c) Miscellaneous
Workshop                                                    job                                        completed
Office                                                      job                                        completed
Survey and design                                           job                                        completed
MAS                                                         job                                        completed
M&E                                  numbers                 2                                        not procured
YTC                                                         job                                        completed
Fuel tanks and pumps                 numbers                 20                                           20
Lifting units                        numbers                 10                                           10
(d) Spares for overhaul                                         job                                        completed
F.     STRENGTHENING ID
(a) Design and Planning (11)
Expatriate experts                  man-months               30                                          30.9
Model tests                                                 job                                        completed
(b) Workshop (12)
Overseas training                 No./man-months           33/66                                        20/65.5
Expatriate experts                  man-months               81                                          94.8
(c) MAS (10)
Overseas training                 No./man-months            4/48                                         11/42
Notes:          The figure within parenthesis in the indicators column refers to the table number of Annex 2 of SAR. Figures within parenthesis in
the actual columns indicate the work to be completed after the Closing date.
Abbreviations:  str. = structure; th. cyd = thousand cubic yards; dir. out. = direct outlet; demon. = demonstration.



- 18 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Us$,000
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Item                          Local    Foreign         Total      Local    Foreign        Total
1.   INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Intake Str.                                 762           6          768     1,872           -       1,872
Canals                                    1,718         100        1,818     3,983           -       3,983
Drains & Flood Protection                 1,593          29        1,622     4.426           -       4,426
Roads & Bridges                             950          28          978      1,828           -      1.828
Buildings                                   897         142        1,039     4,001            -      4,001
Total                                     5,920         305        6,225    16,110           -      16,110
B. Equipment, Vehicles & Materials
Heavy Equipment                             474       2,365        2,839       411       1,400       1,811
Vehicles                                     68        204           272          -           -          -
Other Equipment & Materials                 270       1,307        1,577       319       1,015       1,334
Petroleum Products                            -           -            -          -      3,890       3,890
Spares, tools, etc.                       1,114       3,092        4,206       890       4,140       5,030
Total                                     1,926       6,968        8,894     1,620      10,445      12,065
C. Technical Assistance & Training                -       1,301        1,301        32       3,425       3,457
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                         7,846       8,574       16,420    17,762      13,870      31,632
11.   RECURRENT COSTS (INCREMENTAL)
A. Salary & Wages                             1,695           -        1,695     3,164           -       3,164
B. O&M
Irrigation Works                            914         44           958      1,850          -       1,850
Equipment                                    14           3           17       516           -         516
Buildings                                    59           6           65      1,061          -       1,061
Vehicles                                     83           7           90      1,558           -      1,558
Total                                     1,070          60        1,130     4,985           -       4,985
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                         2,765         60         2,825     8,149           -       8,149
Total Baseline Costs                         10,611       8,634       19,245                -                -
Physical Contingencies                        1,217        766         1,983
Price Contingencies                           3,357       1.552        4,909                -                -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          15,185      10,952       26,137    25,911      13,870      39,781
Notes:    (I)   Appraisal Estimate figures are taken from Annex 2, Table l(a).
(2)   It was not possible to separate the staff time for R&M and O&M. Nor was it possible to separately allocate maintenance
and repair (M&R) of equipment and vehicles (under Recurrent Costs) into R&M and O&M. Hence salary and wages include
incremental cost for O&M and staff for R&M; the latter includes operators and mechanics on permanent staff, which are
really chargeable to works. Similarly cost of M&R of equipment and vehicles include both R&M and incremental O&M.



- 19 -
in Kyats'000
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Item
Local   Foreign        Total       Local   Foreign        Total
1.   INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Intake Str.                             6,707.6      48.7      6,756.4    12.744.8         -    12,744.8
Canals                                 15,119.9     882.9    16,002.8    27,052.7          -    27,052.7
Drains & Flood Protection              14,018.6     256.7    14,275.3    29,504.0          -    29,504.0
Roads & Bridges                         8,361.9     248.8      8.610.7    12,279.0         -    12,279.0
Buildings                               7,887.2    1,250.1     9,137.3    20,953.4         -    20.953.4
Total                                  52,095.2    2,687.3    54,782.5   102,533.9         -   102,533.9
B. Equipment, Vehicles & Materials
Heavy Equipment                         4,172.5   20,812.5    24,985.0     2,693.5    9,630.0    12,323.5
Vehicles                                 598.4    1,798.3      2,396.7          -          -           -
Other Equipment& Materials              2,375.5   11,501.4    13,877.5     2,075.4    6,598.5     8,673.9
Petroleum Products                           -          -           -           -   24,600.0    24,600.0
Spares, tools, etc.                     9,801.0   27,205.3    37,006.3     5,185.0   23,910.0    29,095.0
Total                                  16,947.3   61,318.0    78,265.4     9,953.9   64,738.5    74,692.4
C. Technical Assistance & Training               -   11,443.3    11,443.3       192.5   21,562.0    21,754.5
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                     69,042.5   75,449.7   144,492.2   112,680.3   86,300.5   198,980.8
II.   RECURRENT COSTS (INCREMENTAL)
A. Salary & Wages                          14,912.9         -    14,912.9    19,821.7          -    19,821.7
B. O&M
Irrigation Works                        8,040.0     391.1      8,431.2    11,567.1         -    11,567.1
Equipment                                122.2       28.7       150.9      3,175.4         -      3,175.4
Buildings                                522.4       53.7       576.1      6,599.8         -      6,599.8
Vehicles                                 733.3       62.7       796.0      9,884.6         -      9,884.6
Total                                   9,418.0     536.2     9,954.2    31,226.9          -    31,226.9
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                     24,330.8      536.2    24,867.0    51,048.6          -    51,048.6
Total Baseline Costs                      93,373.3   75,985.9   169,359.2                -                 -
Physical Contingencies                     10.711.4    6,742.0    17,453.4
Price Contingencies                       29.539.4   13,655.8    43,195.1                -                 -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      133,624.1   96,383.7   230,007.8   163,728.9   86,300.5   250,029.4
Notes:   (1)   Appraisal Estimate figures are taken from Annex 2, Table 1(a).
(2)  It was not possible to separate the staff time for R&M and O&M. Nor was it possible to separately allocate maintenance and repair
(M&R) of equipment and vehicles (under Recurrent Costs) into R&M and O&M. Hence salary and wages include incremental cost for
O&M and staff for R&M; the latter includes operators and mechanics on permanent staff, which are really chargeable to works.
Similarly cost of M&R of equipment and vehicles include both R&M and incremental O&M.



- 20 -
B. Project Financing
Aereement                     Revised                       Actual
Source                SDR million     US$ million    SDR million    US$ million    SDR million   US$ million
IDA (Total)                           12.3           14.0            12.3            n.r.          12.3           16.8
Category 1. Civil Works                3.9            4.4             4.5            n.r.           4.5            6.3
Category 2. Equipment etc.             7.8            8.9             4.8            n.r.           4.8            6.6
Category 3. Petroleum Products         -               -              3.0            3.9            3.0            3.9
Category 3, 4 Unallocated              0.6            0.7             -               -              -             -
UNDP (Total)                                          1.8                            3.4                           3.4
World Bank-Executed                                   1.4                            2.9                           2.9
OPS-Executed                                          0.4                            0.5                           0.5
GOM (Total)                                          10.3                            n.r.                         19.6
PROJECT TOTAL:                                     26.1                           n.r.                         39.8
n.r. = not revised.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual at Closin2         PCR Estimate at
Future Without Proeect     Future With Proiect         Year 1993-1994           Full Development
Indicators         Area       Production     Area       Production     Area       Production     Area       Production
('000 ac)    ('000 t)     ('000 ac)    ('000 t)     ('000 ac)    ('000 t)     ('000 ac)    ('000 t)
A. Irrigated Crops
Paddy                  96.4        131.0        121.1        184.8        117.22       168.59       128.00       184.10
B. Rainfed Crops
Paddy                   9.5          7.9          -            -            -            -            -            -
Pulses                 16.0          4.1         18.0          4.6        23.50         3.90        23.50         3.90
TotalCroppedArea         121.9                     139.1                    140.52                    151.30
Cropping Intensity       100%                      115%                      117%                      125%
Notes:  1. SAR production is expressed in long tons and is converted for PCR comparison into metric tons.
2. Paddy area for 1993-94 includes 101,335 ac main paddy crop and 15,883 ac second paddy crop after first paddy or after pre-monsoon other
crop.
3. Paddy area at full development includes 111,000 ac main paddy crop and 17,000 ac second paddy crop after first paddy or after pre-monsoon
other crop.
4. Paddy yield in 1993-94 is 8,063.068 baskets, giving a yield of 68.78 baskets/ac (1.438 t/ac). Same yield is taken at full development.
5. Pulses in SAR, as well as in actual situation and PCR projections have been considered to be entirely chick peas.
6. The yields of pulses (chick peas) in the closing year is the average of the previous nine years, i.e. 0.166 tons/ac. No change is anticipated
at full development (SAR chick pea yield was estimated at 0.25 tonslac).



- 21 -
B. Economic Impact
(i) Economic Rate of Return and Assumptions
Indicators                        Appraisal Estimate    Estimate at Full Development
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                   20.2                        7.41/
PV of Net Benefits (Kyat million) at 12%                      55.9                        (-)15.7
BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
Project life (years)                                           25                           25
Constant prices used for analysis (Year)                      1985                         1993
Official Exchange Rate (Kyats = US$1)                          8.1                          6.5
Wage Rate (Kyats/day)                                          5.6                         15.0
Standard Conversion Factor                                     0.8                         0.1
ECONOMIC FARM GATE PRICE (K/TON) OF
Paddy                                                        1,177.6                       765
Chick peas                                                   5,094.1                       1,304
1/ Assuming that the full development stage is reached by 1996-97.
Notes:
Costs have been converted to 1993 prices on the basis of the following:
1986    1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
- Domestic consumer index to adjust local cost  109.3   136.4  158.3  201.3   236.8   313.2   381.9    500
Foreign costs were adjusted at 3.5% per year, based on the Intemational Financial Statistics, January 1994. IMF.
(ii) 1993 Economic Farm Gate Price of Paddy (Kyats per metric ton)
Export US$ rice price f.o.b. Yangon 1/                                                    185
Export Kyats rice price f.o.b. Yangon 2/                                                1,203
Handling and loading 3/                                                                   (-)5
Transport Delta to Yangon Port 4/                                                         (-)9
Transport Yangon to Ye-U 5/                                                               143
Ex-mill rice price                                                                      1,332
Equivalent paddy price 6/                                                                 839
Milling cost 7/                                                                          (-)42
Storage and losses at transport and storage                                              (-)22
Transport farm to godown 8/                                                              (-)10
Farmgate price of paddy                                                                   765
Footnotes are on the following page.



- 22 -
1/ Rice 25 % broken, based on World Bank Commodity Price forecasts and quarterly review August 1993 of rice 5 % broken
for Bangkok. At 1993 constant prices discounted with 30% for lower quality.
2/ At official exchange rate US$1 = K6.50.
3/ Port charges K28/m. ton and loading and unloading K20/m. ton: the total adjusted by SCF of 0.1
4/ Transport Cost from Delta to Yangon:
1. Loading on boat                                                  K20/ton
2. Transport from Delta to Yangon (50 miles with private boat transport)  K87.5/ton
3. Unloading from boat and loading on truck                         K40/ton
4. Transport to godown (2 miles)                                     K100/ton
5. Unloading at godown                                              K20/ton
Total:                                                           K267.5/ton
Transport Cost from Godown to Port:
1. Loading on truck                                                 K20/ton
2. Transport from godown to port (2 miles)                          K100/ton
3. Unloading at Port                                                K20/ton
Total:                                                           K140/ton
and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
5/ Transport Cost from Ye-U to Yangon Port (by road and by rail):
1. Loading on truck                                                 K20/ton
2. Road transport (138 miles to Mandalay -
up to 5 miles K45/ton and from 5-130 miles K106.4/ton)           KI10.9/ton
3. Unloading from truck                                             K20/ton
4. Loading on rail                                                  K20/ton
5. Rail transport 425 miles                                         K125/ton
6. Unloading from rail                                              K20/ton
7. Transport from rail station to godown in Yangon (2 miles)        K100/ton
8. Unloading at godown                                              K20/ton
Total:                                                           K1,434/ton
and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
6/ Conversion rice to paddy 63%.
7/ Weighted average of official price (15% at K60/m. ton) and rate charged by private mills (85% at K478/m. ton) and
adjusted by SCF of 0.1.
8/ Transport Cost from Farm to Purchasing Centre or Godown:
1.  Loading on bullock cart                                         K10/25 baskets of paddy
2.  Hiring bullock cart/day                                         K100/25 baskets of paddy
3.  Unloading at the purchasing centre                              K10/25 baskets of paddy
Total:                                                        K120/25 baskets of paddy
Remarks. Farmers usually use their own bullock cart and handling by themselves. Therefore economic value 50% of
bullock cart taken at K50/25 baskets.
Adjusted by SCF of 0.1.



- 23 -
(iii) 1993 Economic Farm Gate Price of Chick Peas (in Kyats per metric ton)
Export US$ chick peas price f.o.b. Yangon 1/                            225
Export Kyat chick peas price f.o.b. Yangon 2/                         1,462
Handling and loading 3/                                                 (-)5
Transport Ye-U to Yangon Port 4/                                      (-)143
Transport farm to godown 5/                                           (-)10
Farm gate price of chick peas                                         1,304
1/ Average f.o.b. price Yangon for 1992-1994 considered as constant 1993 US$ price.
2/ At official exchange US$1 = K6.50.
3/ See footnote 3 of paddy.
4/ See footnote 5 of paddy.
5/ See footnote 8 of paddy.
(iv) Financial and Economic Farm Gate Prices of Commodities in 1993
unit         Financial Prices    Economic Prices
(K/Unit)           (KfUnit)
Crop
- Paddy (Market)                 basket (46 Ibs)          186                 16
- Paddy (Govt.)l/                basket (46 Ibs)          50                   16
- Chick peas                     basket (69 Ibs)         330                  44
Fertilizer
- Urea                               m. ton             6,000               1,169
- TSP                                m. ton             5,000               1,331
- Potash                             m. ton             4,000               1,266
OTHER INPUTS
Seeds
- Paddy                          basket (46 Ibs)         1002/                103/
- Chick peas                     basket (69 Ibs)         4504/                453/
Labor
- Human                             Man-day               50                 1.5551
- Animal                          Animal-day              100                 103/
1/ Ten baskets per ac compulsory sale to Government.
2/ Government sole seller.
3/ Adjustment by SCF of 0.1.
4/ Market price.
5/ Shadow rated at 30% and adjusted by SCF of 0.1.



- 24 -
C. Financial Impact
With Project Incremental Farm Family Benefit from 6 ac Farm        Appraisal Estimate      PCR Estimate at Full Development
Models                                       (Kyats)                         (Kyats)
Model I 100% irrigated before project and improved after                    837.1                          61,227
Model II 50% irrigated before project and 100% after                      2,789.6                          53,091
Model IIIA 16% irrigated, 16% rainfed, 68% flood affected before          7,562.4
project and 100% after 1/
Model IIIB 16% irrigated and rest fallow before project, while 84%           -                             33,619
irrigated and rest fallow after.
I/ The comparison of the SAR figures with the PCR figures are meaningless here, due to many reasons, such as the change in exchange rates and the
comparison of 1985 values with 1993 values. A better comparison measure is the percentage increase in farm family benefit for the with and the
without project situation of both the SAR and the PCR (see Part 1, para. 6.9). SAR assumptions for Model IIIA were erroneous for both the with and
the without (before) project situation. Actually before project only 16% was irrigated and the remainder fallow. SAR also assumed that all would be
irrigated at full development, vhile in reality according to PCR only 84% would be irrigated and 16% would remain fallow (see Model IIIB). On the
basis of the PCR data, farm family benefits for Model IIIB in the without project situation were also estimated (see Model In in Annex 3).
D. Studies
Study                 Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                Status                   Impact of Study
R&M of Shwebo, Mon, Man,          Preparation of a long term plan for    Completed by ID with assistance    ID staff got trained in the
Salin and Zawgyi irrigation       R&M of irrigation systems in CDZ.   from the consultants funded under   identification of R&M
systems in CDZ and fixing                                            TA.                               needs, benefit
priority.                                                                                              assessment, and economic
analysis.
Feasibility Study of R&M of       Implementing a follow-up project.  Completed by ID with assistance    ID staff got further
Shwebo system, established as the                                    from Consultants funded under     trained in the planning
priority project.                                                    TA. Technical and economic        and design of R&M of
viability confirmed. The          irrigation systems.
component for forming and
strengthening farmers'
organizations remains to be
prepared.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
DCA Section                     Subject                 Deadline for Compliance      Status
4.01 (a)         To maintain records and accounts to                                 Completed.
reflect operations, resources, and
expenditures of each department or
agency carrying out the project.
4.01 (b)         To have the accounts for each fiscal    12 months after the end of  Completed.
year audited and submit to IDA certified   FY.
copy of the report.
4.01 (b)         To fumish to IDA unaudited accounts    6 months after end of FY.    Completed.
for each fiscal year.
4.01 (c)         To maintain separate record and                                     Separate record and accounts were
accounts for all expenditures for which                             properly maintained. The audit
withdrawals are requested on the basis                             reports provided separate opinion
of SOE, and ensure that such accounts                               on SOE. Completed.
are included in the audit and a separate
opinion by the auditors provided for the
correctness of the purpose of these
expenses.
4.02             To provide sufficient funds for O&M of                              Sufficient funds were provided.
the irrigation system.                                              Completed.
Schedule 4       To establish and maintain PU and PCC.            9.30.87            Both were established and
maintained. Completed.
Schedule 4       To appoint a Project Director.                   9.30.87            Appointed before due date.
Completed.
Schedule 4       To extend the scope of special High                                 HYP extended to the area in 1984.
Yielding Programme (HYP) to the                                     Completed.
Project area.
Schedule 4       To make direct or indirect recovery of                              Recovery continued both direct and
O&M costs.                                                         indirect. Completed.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual                            Comments
Up to Appraisal                                      186.4
Appraisal through Board Approval                     59.5
Supervision                                           55.9
Completion Report Preparation                         13.3
TOTAL:                                          315.1



- 26 -
B. Missions
Stage of      Month, Year    No. of    Days in         Specialty Represented      Performance   Remarks and Type
Project Cycle                    Persons     Field                                  Rating Status       of Problems
Identification
1            11/1978          1          2                  En                                          1
2            2, 3/1979        5          26         CP (2 En, 2 Ag, Ec)                                 2
3             12/1981         2           7                Ag, Ec                                       3
4            2, 3/1982        2          30             En, CP (En)                                    4
5             6/1982          7          18       2 Ec. Pr, Ta, CP (En, Ag)                             5
Preparation
1            12/1982          1          4                CP (En)                                      6
2             1/1983          1           8               CP (En)                                       7
3            2, 3/1983        5          28         Ec, CP (2 En, Ag, Ec)                              8
4             5/1983           1         27               CP (ME)                                       9
5            6, 7/1983        2          22             CP (ME, En)                                    10
6           10, 11/1983       4          21         CP (En, FA, ME, SE)                                11
7             2/1984          1           1                  En                                        12
8             3/1984          1           7                  Ag                                        13
9            5, 6/1984        5          19          2 En, ME, Ec, Ag                                  14
Appraisal
1            11/1984          4         30             2 En, Ec, Ag                                    15
2             12/1984         1           5                  Pr                                        16
3             411985          1          3                   Pr                                        17
4             9/1985          1           5                  Ta                                        18
5             12/1985         1           5                  Pr                                        19
Supervision
1            12/1986          3          14             Ag, Ta, En                                    20
2             4/1987          1          7                   Ta                     -                  21
3             5/1987          2          6                 En, Ag                1, 2, 1, 2            22
4             12/1987         2          15                En, Ag                1, 2, 1, 2            23
5            3, 4/1988        2          6                 En, Ag                   -                  24
6             3/1989          1          13                  En                 1, 2, 1, 2             25
7             5/1989          1          18                  En                 1, 2, 1, 2             26
8             8/1989          2          11               En, ME                    -                  27
9             12/1989         1          13                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1           28
10            5/1990           1         10                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1           29
11            10/1990          1         15                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1,          30
12            8/1991          2          17                En, ME              2, 2, 1, 1, 1           31
13            10/1991          1          8                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1           32
14           1, 2/1992         1         29                  En                2, 2, 1,1, 2            33
15          10, 11/1992        1         20                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1           34
16            6/1993           1         14                  En                2, 2, 1, 1, 1           35
17            12/1993          1         13                  En                2, 2, 1,1, 1           35
PCR                  1/1994          2         13              CP (En, Ec)



- 27 -
B. Missions (cont'd)
Abbreviations:   En   Engineer; Ag = Agronomist; CP = FAOJCP; Ec = Economist; Pr = Programme Staff; TA = Technical Assistance Staff;
ME = Mechanical Engineer; SE = Structural Engineer.
Notes:
1.   GOM and mission agreed to the concept and need for R&M of irrigation schemes.
2.   All irrigation projects in CDZ were reviewed for R&M. Issues identified were (A) R&M economically viable only if substantial increase in irrigated
area, (b) GOM policy for compulsory procurement of paddy not providing any incentive to farmer for increase in production, (c) lack of storage
facilities, (d) shortage of fertilizer. (e) lack of a programme for HYV seed multiplication, and (f) need for introduction of T&V system for agriculture
extension.
3.   Zawgyi irrigation system was selected for R&M with tentative IDA funding of US$20 million.
4.   GOM informed the mission that instead of Zawgyi system, the Mu river irrigation systems will be preferred.
5.   GOM agreement was obtained to project preparation by FAO/CP for R&M of Ye-U system, with assistance from consultants (supervised by FAO/CP)
funded (US$300,000) under UNDP-funded Umbrella 111.
6.   Review of the Consultants preparation work.
7.   Review of the Consultant preparation work. Sufficiency of Mu river flow for the two systems agreed.
8.   Concerns on economic viability since only limited additional irrigation likely. Future deterioration due to insufficient funding for O&M to be studied.
9.   Basic requirements of MB strengthening were studied.
10. Decisions sought from ID on a discussion paper identifying the pattern for MB strengthening.
11.  Detailed review of the Consultants' preparation report.
12.  Mission suggested limiting the project to modernization only, and rehabilitation to be carried out under O&M funding; IDA providing funds for
equipment only.
13.  Review of agriculture aspects and timetable for project processing.
14.  Issues were identified as: (a) IDA preference to funding a time-slice of a long-term R&M  plan with linkage to policy reforms, (b) workshop
component to be scaled down from US$30 million to US$4 million, (c) emphasis on EIMS, (d) providing US$2 million for spares for equipment
overhaul, (e) need for doubling the allocation for O&M, (f) use of consultants considered necessary for implementing R&M, and (g) introduction
of proper cost recovery.
15. Refer Table 2 for the concerns.
16.  GOM not accepting use of consultants for strengthening MB.
17.  Issues discussed were: (a) scope of TA for MB strengthening, (b) crop diversification, (c) preparation of a plan for development of water resources,
and (d) cost-recovery measures.
18.  Approval of UNDP Prodocs discussed.
19.  Scope of TA for MB strengthening was the main issue.
20.  Drafts of UNDP Prodocs discussed. Extension of the date of effectiveness considered necessary. Rating Status not given.
21.  GOM Cabinet approval of the UNDP Prodocs confirmed. Rating Status not given.
22.  Prodocs not yet signed by the UNDP and GOM. The further extension of the date of effectiveness considered necessary.
23.  Design division not suitably staffed. MAS extension staff strength not yet increased. ID had not yet prepared the detailed implementation progratnme.
ID to include WC rehabilitation in the programme as well.
24.  Review during Tank 11 appraisal. Consultants in place and work commenced. Status not updated.
25.  Project slipped by one year due to political disturbances in the country.
26.  Consultants could not be remobilized yet due to uncertain security conditions. Cement in short supply. Very slow progress on surveys and design
studies for R&M.
27.  Tenders cleared by IDA earlier, not yet issued. GOM did not lift ban on import of vehicles. Shortage of tools a major handicap in working of the
workshops. Acute shortage of proper lubricants. Rating Status not updated.
28.  Hydraulic oil and lubricants in short supply. FY 1987-88 audit report delayed. Decision on dry dock and jetty being delayed too much.
29.  Resectioning of the MC and drains held up due to non-availability (delay in placement of orders) of equipment. Also progress on EIMS unsatisfactory.
30.  The delay in placing orders for the workshop equipment, tools, spare parts, is upsetting the scheduling of the Consultants specialists and their output.
FY 1989-90 audit report delayed.
31.  The deployment of Consultants specialists completely upset due to further delays in procurement. Insufficient allocation of local funds.
32.  The problems remained the same as reported in the previous mission.
33.  Increase in cost of balance work. Water management insufficiently addressed. Construction of the control on offtakes and work on WC lagging
behind.
34.  Shortage of diesel, proper lubricants and cement.  Insufficient attention on water management.  Further delays in processing procurement.
Communication facilities for O&M not being attended to. Detailed examination necessary why irrigation area not increasing.
35.  Further procurement processing delays. No attention on water management and strengthening farmers' organizations. Urgent need to review why
the DY not irrigating full command area.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
Procurement of Goods
Item Procured                  No. of          Procurement       Value US$      SAR Base    Remarks
Purchase Orders      Procedure          million         Cost
Construction Equipment                     10               ICB               1.40          3.55
Vehicles                                   -                  -                -            0.27
Workshop Machinery                         9                 ICB             0.60           0.57
Tools and Tool kits                         I                PS              0.21           0.20
Special Tools 1/                           3                 PS              0.45             -
Spare Parts 1/                            34                 PS              2.76           3.66
Tires and Tubes                            8                 ICB             0.62             -            21
Miscellaneous items                        6                 PS              0.13           0.06
Crude Oil & Lubricant 3/                   1                 ICB             3.89             -            4/
Reinforcement Bars                          I                ICB             0.40             -            4/
ICB  = Intemational Competitive Bidding.
PS  = Prudent Shopping.
1/ These were proprietary items. Quotations were obtained from known dealers of equipment.
2/ Tires, tubes, special tools were included in the spares in SAR.
3/ Crude oil and lubricants were procured by the Petroleum Corporation.
4/ Materials and crude oil were initially not provided for funding under the Credit. DCA was later amended to meet the acute
shortage of these materials in the country.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
Project Consultancies
(All Cost Figures are In Thousandl
Cosultancy      |      Consultant Selection Process .....    ... Contract Value ...At.....        u Aaul Cost .....   Completion   | SAR       Actuall
for           By B     Procurement          Date           Foreign       Local        Foreign      l Local           Date         mlr r/r
Implement
Model Tests        OPS            1            July 9, 87      US$210.00         -        US$224,851          -          May 1989         -          -
Designs            OPS            3            May 13, 88           -            -                                      Aug. 1989       12.0       10.5
Assist ID
Master Plan        WB             1           March 10, 88     DG446.40       K216.9       DG545.9+        K343.5        May 1991         18       18.1
US49.1
Feasibility        WB             2           March 18,91      DG595.00          -          DG595.0           -         May 1992          -        18.5
A"It MO
ElMS etc.          WB             1           March 10, 88       A$1,193      K931.1       A$2113+         K825.0       Feb. 1992         81       105.5
US$105.8
Procurement 1        Consulting firms short-listed and selection on the basis of evaluation of the proposals.
Procurement 2        Sole-source selection. The same consultant was awarded the work who carried out the Master Plan on the basis of negotiations.
Procurement 3        Invitation to single firm selected for Master Plan study.



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
FINANCIAL BUDGETS OF FARM MODELS
(In Kyats)
MODEL I                             MODEL II                                MODEL III
Improved Irrigated              Full Irrigated Farm of 6 ac"          3.6 sc Irrigated & 2.4 ac Fallow"
Farm Model of 6 acu                I before 50% Rainted and                (before 1 ac Irrigated and
50% Irrigated)                           5 ac Fallow)
Without I     With Project     Without Project       With Project       Without Project       With Project    l
Project        Full Dev.                              Full Dev.                                Full Dev.
INFLOWS
Main Production
-Rice4/                               65,640          75,420             54,300               65,640               11,700              42,120
- Chick peas 5/
Grous Valus of Production            65,640          75,420             54,300               65,640              11,700              42,120
On-Farm Consumption 6/
- Rice                                16,200           16,200            16.200               16,200               16,200              16,200
Net Value of Production or Gross
Inflow                                49,440          59,220             38.100               49,440               -4,500              25,920
OUTFLOWS
Production Cost
-Paddy seed 7/                         1,140           1,280              1,050                1,140                 200                 720
- Urea 8/                              2,286           2,606              1,596                2,286                 458                1,647
-TSP9/                                   600             688                375                 600                  125                 450
-MOP 10/                                 240             275                150                 240                   50                 180
- Hired labor 11/                      7,680           8,660              6,600                7,680               1,400                5,040
-Chemicals 121                           516             586                390                 516                  100                 360
Total Production Costs:              12,462          14,095             10,161               12,462               2,333                8.397
Taxes
-Land tax 13/                             27              31                 23                  27                    5                  15
- Water charges 14/                       60              60                 30                  60                   10                  36
Total Taxes:                            87              98                 53                   87                   15                  54
OUTFLOW                               12,549           14,193            10,214               12,549               2,348                8.451
NET CASHFLOW                          36,891          45,027             27,886               36,891               -6,848              17,469
FARM FAMILY BENEFIT                   53,091          61,227             44,086               53,091                9,352              33,669
Footnotes:
1/   The without project situation of Model I assumes that 20%  of the area would have been cultivated with
local paddy seed and the remainder with HYV. In the with project situation also 20% will be planted with
local seed, but 92% with HYV seed due to the fact that about 12% of the area is having a second rice crop.
2/    The without project situation  of Model II assumes that the rainfed  area is planted  with local rice seed, thus
50% of the area and the remainder with HYV seed. In the with project situation the entire area is irrigated
but still due to water insecurity 20% is expected to be planted with local rice seed and 80% with HYV
seed.



- 31 -
3/  The without project situation of Model liI assumes that about 16% of the area is irrigated and farmed and
the remainder is fallow. In the with project situation 60% is being irrigated and the remainder is fallow.
Model IlIl in the SAR was based on incorrect data (see footnote in Part IlIl, Section 6C).
4/  Rice paddy yields per acre are 75 baskets of 46 lbs each for the HYV paddy, and 40 baskets for the local
paddy. The price per basket of paddy is K180 in the market and K50 for the compulsory sale to
Government i.e. 10 baskets per acre.
5/  Chick peas are considered to be equal in area as well as in yield in the with and without project situation
of the farm budgets and have therefore not been taken into account in the revenues nor in the costs. The
SAR followed this line also.
6/  On-farm consumption is about 15 baskets of rice per family member; there are on average six members
per family.
7/  Paddy seeding: 2 baskets of HYV/acre and 1.5 baskets of local seed/acre; each costs K100 per basket.
8/  Urea rate/acre: 1,525 bag of 50 kg for HYV paddy and a 0.25 bag for local paddy. Price per bag: K300.
9/  TSP rate/acre: 0.5 bags (50 kg) for HYV; no TSP application for local paddy. Price per bag K250.
10/ MOP rate/acre: 0.25 bags (50 kg) for HYV; no MOP application for local paddy. Price per bag K200.
11/ Hired labor rate K50/day. Man-days 28/acre for HYV paddy and 16/acre for local paddy.
12/ Chemicals price: K200/litre. HYV paddy 0.5 I/acre and local paddy 0.15 I/acre.
13/ Land tax for HYV rice is K5/acre and local paddy K2.5/acre.
14/ Water charges: K10/acre.



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1731-BA)
SAR AND PCR PROJECTED AND ACTUAL PERFORMANCE OF PADDY CULTIVATION
1.         A graphical illustration of the irrigated paddy area planted, yields obtained and harvested since 1973-
74 to 1993-94 is given in Figure 1. Also shown in the graph are the SAR assumptions for the pre-project,
without-project and with-project situations. Since the resectioning of the canals started in 1 987-88, and the
sediment excluder and the cross-regulators on the main canal were completed by June 1 990, the pre-project and
without project situation for the purpose of the PCR have been taken as an average of the actual situation from
1983-84 to 1988-89 (note that although these are the years of relatively lower planted paddy areas, they
recorded the highest paddy yields in the series) giving a base (for comparison with the full development) of
91,561 acres of planted area (SAR: 96,400 acres) and a production of 133,500 tons (SAR: 131,000 tons).
2.        In the economic analysis, the with-project situation has been considered from 1989-90 onwards.
The actual planted areas and production are considered till 1993-94 except the negative values in 1991 -92, in
which year the (negative) incremental production of paddy is taken as zero. Full development is assumed to be
reached in three years (by 1996-97). Paddy yields achieved in 1993-94 are assumed to remain constant at
1.438 tons/acre planted in view of the shortage of fertilizer in the country (SAR assumed 1.50 ton per ac
harvested).
3.         Figure 1 brings out the impact of the project: the harvested area is around 98% of the area planted,
instead of about 91 % assumed in the SAR. The vagaries of weather (drought periods in the rainy season) thus
had lesser effect on the planted area due to more reliable availability of water for the paddy irrigated area.
4.         The two parameters governing the extent of irrigated paddy planted area are also shown in the
figure: the average annual rainfall (inches) in the project area and the volume of water (thousand acre ft)
delivered by the system for irrigation.



8 _ ---SAR WIIH PROJECT 1.5 TON/AC
R 70-                                                                                                         PC_____  -PC R FU1 DEVELOPMENT WITH PROJECT I.4. TON/AC
- - - - - - SAR WITHOUT PROJECT 1.33 TON/AC
mO          _         _ --          -                               _   _       _      -
j40                                 ____                                           _                                                M Y A N M A R
YE - U IRRIGATION REHABLITATK)N
.  _ ,  !   |  |                                              AND MODERNISATION PROJECT
30_                              '_-                                                                                              (IA CREDIT 1731 - BA)
550-
<-)
I __i    .    I                                                                                            SAR AND PCR ASSUMED
's0                                                                                                                                                              AND
ACTUAL PERFORMANCE
4W-                                                                                                                     _                          OF PADDY CULTIVATION
U.> 45F,                                  f D-:                                                -                   _.
3W-                                    j       !              l       t      t       A             I-i 
U)4O                                _ _     _ _   _ _    _    _  _ _ _                                   ___'___-----
O                                                                I\                     I       \    I        
13D- 350  5 0                                                   v ,        I      l\   I  j       j      j
SCEPA C
____ 20I '                                                                            NA---  T2AOLRAR|ESTEN
0-              i                              I~I-~                           __    _
PROJECT PRPARATION t OIG1               RAPELIEWATION



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
fCr. 1731-BA)
Economic Analysis
Scenario 1 (Actual and Estimated at Proiect Completion)
1        2          3          4           5           6            7             8             9            10           11           12           13          14-25
Benefits
Total Increm. Benefits                    -               6309.0        5764.0       2531.0        11360.0      33810.0       35786.0       37763.0      45672.0     45672.0    45672.0   45672.0
Costs
Total Costs                298.0    2504.0   35269.0   12360.0         20849.0       9923.0        15752.0      25847.0       29532.0       30276.0      35958.0     35958.0    35958.0    35958.0
Net Benefits
Net Benefits                 298.0   -2504.0  -35269.0   -6051.0        -15085.0      -7422.0       -4392.0        7963.0        6254.0        7487.0      9714.0       9714.0      9714.0      9714.0
IRR = 7.4%
Scenario 2 (Assuming Appraisal Rice Price Proiections)
1        2          3          4           5           6            7             8             9            10           11           12           13          14-25        U
lI
Benef its
Total Increm. Benefits                    -                7886.0       7045.0       2501.0        13718.0      41774.0       46715.0       51659.0      56601.0      56601.0    56601.0   56601.0
Costs
Total Costs                298.0    2504.0   35269.0   12360.0         20949.0       9923.0        15752.0       25847.0      29532.0       30276.0      35959.0     35959.0    35958.0    35958.0
Net Benefits
Net Benefits                -298.0   -2504.0  -35269.0   -474.0         -13804.0      -7422.0       -2034.0       15927.0       17183.0       21383.0     20643.0      20643.0    20643.0    20643.0
IRR = 16.9%
L_n



IBRD 18409R
MYANMAR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION
PROJECT                                                    /a K          bo Headworks
PROJECT:                                                                                             KABO
Roads Improved
~ New Bund
New Escape Channels                                                              /  
/9     New Cross Regulators
EXISTING                                                                 B>degon                 )
Main and Branch Canals
Distributary Canals
Mirior Canals
- -    Rivers and Drains
Bunds
Escapes
El Headworks                      =
-T--    Telephone Lines and Stations                                                                  4"
Main Roads
Village Roads                                                                /1                         K ti
Railways
I4 Isohyets in inches
*      Construction Camp     
Indainggale~'/
i To Mettywre  B   '  '    _  <'                   2   |       t~~~~~~haungmidot
ToM Mggnv       /in                   -
92                                i~ 
INDIA
|~~~~~~~ DAK              1,          260 W
-260                        N
B3ANGLADESH           
rCHIN
0 T-Vng'
E~ ymn-ians o -
BArOF       -.       ~~~KAYAH
BkIIGAf              ~~~~~STATE
~~-~A  5  0900       LAO
-180          7t  ., BAGII)ED  DEMOCRATIC 18   0       2    4      6     81
DVISI N      REPUBLIC    _                                    KILOMETERS
G wA    Pegu                    V
~wi              THAILAND       0        2         4         6MILES
Bassen              Mouine.n
YAtIGI 01 i  ,i .            Trhe boundariesT colors- d-O-ajaOns and an, other -frld 05.0
sho., onti npd  ot,.l.o  h patf Th. Wo-ld Bank           Bau
920              960               1 1o         Group, any;jdgment 00afn legal status of any trnto,5, or any           +1
JUtiY 1994












