Dommorn of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
( ,    t  ,1   /   ;   ..................   / -?   ,    ->
Report No. P-4372-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
August 7, 1986
This document has a restricled distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanrc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.00 Kyat (K) = US$0.114
K 8.80          =  US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch                            =  2.540 centimeters (cm)
1 fooL (ft)                       =  0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                       =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                       =  0.405 hectares (ha)
1 pound/acre (lb/ac)              =  1.121 kilograms/hectare (km/ha)
1 pound (lb)                      =  0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 ton (long ton - 2,240 Ibs)    =  1.016 metric tons
1 imperial gallon (Ig)            =  4.546 liters (l)
1 cubic foot/second (cusec)       =  0.028 cubic meters/second
1 acre-foot (ac Et)               =  1,233 cubic meters {m3)
1 cubic yard                      =  0.765 cubic meters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC      -   Agriculture Corporation
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP  -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
HiYV    -   High Yielding Varieties
ID      -   Irrigation Department
K       -   Kyat
M       -   Million
MAF     -   Mini3try of Agriculture and Forests
O&M     -   Operation and Maintenance
PCC     -   Project Coordination Committee
PU      -   Project Unit
SEEs    -   State Economic Enterprises
UWDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
SHYP    -   Special High Yielding Program
BURMA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrower:              The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights (oDR) 12.3 million
(US$14.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The Project would be the first in a series of major
investments for rehabilitation and modernization of
large river diversion systems that account for about
35Z of the area under irrigation in Burma. It would
provide for comprehensive repair and modernization of
the Ye-U system (with a cultivable command area of
12l,000 acres), and for complementary agricultural
services to project area farmers. The project would
also strengthen the Irrigation Department (ID) by
developing (a) a nationwide Master Plan for irrigation
rehabilitation and improved operation of at least five
large diversion systems with a combined area of 500,000
acres, and (b) a comprehensive national program for
management (especially maintenance) of ID's large and
growing fleet of heavy equipment. Institutional
strengthening would be achieved through the provision
of limited but essential te:hnical assistance and
upgraded mechanical workshop facilities. By
rehabilitating badly-deteriorated irrigation
infrastructure, the project would provide more reliable
supply of irrigation water to about 20,000 farm
families in the Ye-U command area. Combined with
improved water management, extension, and input supply,
this would lead to increased cropped area, higher
yields, aid an expansion of overall production of rice
and puLses.
Risks:                 No adverse environmental impact is expected.
Nationwide shortages of fuel and cement have delayed
implementation of earlier irrigation projects; however,
these shortages should be alleviated by the completion
in 1986-87 of several major irrigation projects.
This document hag r estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performlnce
of their official dutiea Its contents may not otherwiwe be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: a/                                      (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign    Total
Irrigation Civil Works            5.96      0.22       6.18
Earthmoving Equipment             1.31      4.11       5.42
Construction Supervision          2.34      0.49       2.83
Institutional Strengthening       0.41      1.41       1.82
Mechanical Workshops              0.59      2.41       3.00
Physical Contingencies            1.22      0.76       1.98
Price Contingencies               3.36      1.55       4.91
Total Project Cost               15.19    10.95       26.14
a/ Include taxes and duties of US$1.8 miLlion equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                          (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                               4.8        9.2       14.0
UNDP                               -         1.8        1.8
Government                       10.3         -        10.3
Total                            15.1       11.0       26.1
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  (US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA FY             1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual              0.0   0.4   5.4   3.6   2.3   1.5   0.8
Cumulative          0.0   0.4   5.8   9.4  11.7  13.2  14.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           20%
Staff Appreisal
Report:              No. 5524-BA of July 14, 1986
Maps                    IBRD No. 18409; IBRD No. 18706



INTERNATIONAL DEVEWLOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR THE YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for SDR
12.3 million (US$14.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance the Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project. UNDP
would grant US$1.8 million equivalent to finance the techniCdl assistance
component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Policies and Prospects
for Economic Adjustment and Growth" (Report No. 4814-BA, dated November 18,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 5, 1985 and its
findings are included in this section. Country data are presented in
Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962, and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
Thereafter, a constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Bluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy, stated in a 1962 document entitled "The
Burmese Way to Socialism", reflects a combination of traditional Burmese
values and socialist doctrine. Despite the political stability of Burma's
leadership, insurgency has been a problem in large areas of the country.
4.      The Government's economic development strategy is summarized in the
Twenty-Year Plan adopted in 1972. The Government's main economic objectives
are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system, to
enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency through transformation from
an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment, and to reduce income disparities.
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for a Grain Storage and Processing Project for Burma (Report
No.P-4305-BA), that was approved by the Executive Directors on May 29,
1986.



-2-
5.      The publication of the Twenty-Year Plan was followed by a wide range
of reforms and policy changes, the most important of which was the introduc-
tion in 1976 of tax measures which, accompanied by a round of price and
tariff increases, helped restore the country's public finances to a sounder
basis. To encourage the state sector to operate more efficiently, the
Government also introduced in 1974 a new financial system for the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and authorized greater managerial authority and
work incentives for them.
6.      In the area of agriculture, the Government launched in the uid-1970s
a successful intensification program for paddy (the Special High Yielding
Program (SHYP)). Now extended to 50% of total paddy-sawn land, the program
has combined increased availability of inputs (improved seeds and
fertilizers), and a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service, with
skillfully orchestrated institutional and political support at the township
level, resulting in substantial gains in yields and production.
7.      As a result of these measures and of generally favorable weather
conditions, improving terms of trade and increased flows of concessional
foreigp aid, Burma made impressive economic progress during its Second and
Third Four-Year Plan periods (1974/75-1981/82). Real gross domestic product
(CDP) grew by an annual average of 6% during the period, compared with 2.71
in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased as a share
of GDP from 10% in 1974/75 to 20% in 1981/82; the share of domestic savings
in GDP similarly increased from 11% to 171 over the same period. Significant
improvements in the Government's budgetary position also occurred, allowing
the Government to reduce its dependence on borrowings from the domestic
banking system. This, in turn, contributed to a reduction in the rate of
inflation.
8.      However, as Burma entered into the Fourth Four-Year Plan period in
1982/83, the previously optimistic outlook on the economy was altered by an
abrupt deterioration in the country's balance of payments and financial
accounts. The external current account deficit as a share of GDP, which had
been relatively modest, widened from 4% in 1980/81 to 6.4Z in 1981/82 and to
9.11 in 1982/83; the overall payments balance worsened from a surplus of
US$63 million in 1980/81 to a deficit of US$158 million in 1982/83. The
major factors accounting for this downturn were a combination of rising
foreign exchange allocations for imports, a decline in export earnings, due
largely to falling world market prices (especially for rice) and stagnating
volumes, and s decline in receipts of official grants. While import volumes
had been grow;rng faster than export volumes since the mid-1970s, in order to
support rapidly expanding public sector investments, the resource gap did not
widen significantly until 1982/83.
9.      The abrupt deterioration in the balance of payments was accompanied
by an increase in the overall budget deficit, which rose from 92 of GDP in
1980/81 to 11% in 1982/83. To a certain extent, the balance of payments and
budgetary developments were related, as about one quarter of the increase in
the fiscal deficit was accounted for by the reduced profits on exports by
Government trading monopolies. However, the basic cause was an inelastic tax
system, inadequate public sector pricing po.icies, and rising capital
outlays. Though a substantial part of the deficit was financed by foreign



-3-
loans and grants, borrowings from the domestic banking system also increased
steadily.
10.     Faced with a tight budgetary situation and a severe shortage of
foreign exchange, the Government's immediate concern waS stabilization. In
1983/84, imports had to be reduced sharply to prevent a further drawdown of
reserves. Capital expenditures by the SEEs were curtailed through rephasing
and consolidation of their investment programs. On the other hand, no new
revenue initiatives were taken. As a result of these cutbacks and some
improvement in export earnings, the external current account deficit was
reduced to less than 4% of CDP and the overall fiscal deficit to 8.5% of GDP.
Data for 1984/85 indicate that the current account deficit has been held to
about 4.5% of GDP, but the overall fiscal deficit has risen to 12Z of CDP
because of a decline in the share of both tax revenues and the SEEs contribu-
tion to the budget reLative to GDP; almost all this increase was financed by
domestic bank borrowing. Notwithstanding these financial developments,
increases in real output have continued at about 5-6% per annum. However,
reflecting in part reduced allocations for imports, and heavy reliance on
the banking system to finance budget deficits, inflation has begun to rise.
11.     In the longer run, the Government's most important objective should
be to achieve high real CDP growth while maintaining internal and external
financial stability. New and wide-ranging initiatives need to be taken in
the area of domestic resource mobilization, to enable the Government to
maintain the level of public expenditures compatible with high growth without
rapid increases in domestic bank credit. Moreover, if Burma is to sustain
high CDP growth, the initiatives for stepping up domestic resource mobi-
lization would need to be supported by equally ambitious undertakings to
increase export earnings. Agricultural products now make up 80% of Burma's
merchandise exports, with rice accounting for as much as 50% of total
agricultural exports. Given this export concentration and some uncertainty
about Burma's future rice export earnings, the Government's medium-to-longer
term objective should be to generate larger exportable surpluses of com-
modities other than rice and teak, to help broaden the country's export base.
Recognizing this, the Government has in recent years, shifted the focus of
its agricultural strategy away from paddy to expanding the production of
other crops. In the shorter termp however, the Burmese economy is expected
to continue to rely heavily on rice and teak. Priority should be given to
upgrading the quality of rice and improving the handling and distribution of
teak, both for export.
12.     Burma's debt service ratio (including IMF repurchases) increased from
35% in the 1980/81 to 45X in 1984/85, due primarily to a substantial increase
in the latter part of 1970s in loans from private financial institutions and
suppliers' credits. By March 1986, Burma's external public debt, disbursed
and outstanding, was approximately US$2.2 billion. The prospects for exports
over the medium-term are not favorable. According to World Bank price
projections, Burma's terms of trade will improve only gradually over the next
five years. To contain the country's already high debt service burden, it
is essential that, in addition to an aggressive export expansion, external
assistance continue to be on concessionary terms.
13.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial issue is how welL these



-4-
resources wiLl be managed and developed. The Bank continues to discuss with
the Government its external assistance requirements and measures for further
improvements in economic management which would help Burma realize its
promising potential for economic development. Discussions on these topics
are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma Aid
Group meetings which the World Bank has organized at the Government's
request. The first meeting of the Croup was held on November 30, 1976 in
Tokyo; and there have been five subsequent meetings, with indications of
increasing donor support each year. The last meeting was held on January 14,
1986 in Tokyo.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
14.     Burma became a member of [BRD in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in 1962.
Between 1956 and 1961, IBRD made three loans, totalling about US$33 million,
for the transport sector: one loan helped finance the Port of Rangoon's
reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities and procurement of
cargo-handling and port equipment, and two loans helped finance reconstruc-
tion and dieselization of the railways.
15.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973, and since then, 27 credits and three loans totalling about US$693
million equivalent (net of cancellations) have been made. About 55% of this
assistance has been for 16 projects in the agriculture sector: provision
for irrigation pumps, two rubber rehabilitation projects, livestock
development, two seed development projects, two paddyLand development
projects, grain storage, two forestry projects, two wood industries projects,
the Kinda Dam multipurpose project, a tank irrigation project, and a
groundwater irrigation project. About 19% of IDA assistance has supported
rehabilitation of the transport sector through six projects, namely inland
water transport, railways, two port projects, a road construction project and
a timber distribution project. The remaining 26% of IDA assistance has been
for two projects in the telecommunications sector (8X), one project in the
mining sector (about 2%), a power project (12%), and a textile-finishing
plant project (4%). Seven credits have been fully disbursed. Initially
disbursements were slow, but performance has improved considerably as govern-
ment agencies have become more familiar with IDA procedures. In general,
IDA-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31,
1986. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
16.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some economic sectors and a lack of adequately prepared projects. Through
ongoing projects and sector work, IDA has developed more detailed knowledge
of many sectors. UNDP has provided about US$10 million equivalent in
technical assistance through three Umbrella Projects, for which IDA is the
executing agency. This technical assistance has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors, such as agriculture,
transport, power, and industry. Several IDA-supported projects, namely seed
development, rubber rehabilitation, power transmission, construction
industry, third port, and groundwater irrigation, were prepared under these
Umbrella Projects. Furthermore, IDA plans to continue its technical assis-
tance on a project-by-project basis to help strengthen Burmese project
preparation and impLementation capabilities, as well as administrative and



-5-
managerial skills of Burmese personnel through in-service and overseas
training.
17.     IDA's country assistance strategy seeks to address Burma's immediate
economic development constraints and has the folLowing objectives:  (a) to
help improve foreign earnings by supporting economically viable export promo-
tion and import substitution activities, improving production of export
commodities, currently teak and rice, and developing other crops for export;
(b) to help enhance Government's ability to mobilize domestic resources; and
(c) to assist in modernizing and strengthening important institutions, espe-
cially in sectors in which IDA is involved.
18.     Burma's expanding international economic links have contributed to a
growing appreciation of the broader role that IDA can play in providing
assistance to the development effort, and to an agreement in principle with
the Government on the strategic objectives of IDA assistance. Accordingly,
IDA would selectively support projects in those sectors where there has been
a preparedness to engage in policy and institutional-building discussions
and a demonstrated willingness to implement necessary reforms and address,
increasingly, macroeconomic issues. On this basis, IDA would continue to
support agricultural development and seek participation in new areas or
sectors e.g., energy, industry, and human resources development.
19.     IDA assistance to the agriculture sector would emphasize intensifica-
tion of irrigated production on existing cropland and broadening of the
country's export base through programs for diversified agricultural
production. Assistance to the energy sector would focus on developing and
exploicing more efficiently Burma's recently-discovered and existing gas and
oil resources. Recent sector work on crop diversification and an energy
assessment study may also provide the basis for initiating new long-term
development strategies in these sectors, accompanied by policy and institu-
tional strengthening. Possible future IDA projects under preparation include
investments in groundwater and tank irrigation projects to expand crop
diversification. Other projects include development of gas and power,
industries, telecommunications and ports, with emphasis on rehabilitating and
maximizing utilization of existing facilities. Studies are being undertaken
to upgrade timber transport, improve navigation and flow of goods on the
Irrawaddy and Chindvin Rivers, and to identify policy, operational and
institutional weaknesses in selected industrial sub-sectors.
20.     The World Bank currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstaniding and about 11 of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3X.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
21.     Agriculture, including forestry, livestock and fisheries, is the
dominant sector of the Burmese economy. In 1985, it accounted for about 44%
of GDP, 66% of the labor force and over 80% of exports. In addition,
agricultural crops, particularly paddy, cotton, jute and sugarcane, support
more than 60% of the country's industrial production.



-6-
22.     Rice is Burma's major agricuLtural and export commodity, as well as
a significant source of government revenue through implicit taxation from
government-controlled pricing. Paddy is grown principally as a single,
low-land rainfed crop in the monsoon period. About 5 N ha are sown to paddy
annually, representing over 50% of the gross cultivated area. In 1984/85,
rice accounted for more than one third of total agricultural output, and rice
and rice products for 37% of the value of all merchandise exports. Other
main crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts, industrial crops such as jute
and cotton and cereals other than paddy.
23.     During the 1960s and early 1970s, value-added in agriculture rose
at a modest rate of about 1.6% per annum, well below the prevailing 2.2%
population growth. Among factors contributing to this unsatisfactory perfor-
mance were changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers and
failures of imported high yielding paddy varieties (HYVs) which proved ill-
suited to local conditions. The Government, in response to these
developments, introduced a series of policy reforms beginning in 1973/74, to
improve incentives to farmers and develop and promote HYWs suited to local
conditions. As a result of these policies, value-added in agriculture and
paddy production grew at average annual rates of 7.5% and 7.0%, respectively,
between 1974/75 and 1984/85.
Expansion in Paddy Production
24.     The dramatic growth of Burmese agriculture since the mid-1970s has
been underpinned by a successful paddy intensification drive, the SHYP,
launched in 1975176. This program has combined improved availability of
inputs and a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service with
institutional support at the township level. While the spread of HYVs to
cover 50% of the country's paddy area has been a manifestation of the "Green
Revolution" which has also occurred elsewhere in Asia, local factors have
contributed to making the Burmese process unique, e.g. participation of the
People's Council in coordinating production and crop procurement, selectivity
and concentration through a campaign-type approach, mobilization of the
community to provide additional labo:, and the provision of consumer goods on
a priority basis to project areas to complement rising incomes. As a result,
Burma has surpassed the average yields of most developing countries, and has
reached about half the yield levels achieved 5n Japan. Total paddy produc-
tion has grown from 9.4 M tons in 1977/78 to 14.4 M tons in 1984/85, an
increase of over 50%.
Priorities for Agricultural Development
25.     Intensification of production on existing irrigated land, diver-
sification into non-paddy crops where technically and economically feasible,
and upgrading of the quality of export rice have emerged as priority objec-
tives in the Government's plan for agricultural development. Intensification
can be achieved in a highly cost-effective manner in the large river diver-
sion systems of the Dry Zone of Upper Burma, where major irrigation
infrastructure built at the beginning of this century now requires substan-
tial modernization and repair to bring an adequate and reliable supply of
irrigation water to smallholders. Because of prevailing soil and climate
conditions, the Government has also Ldentified Upper Burma as the main target
area for its agricultural diversification program covering 19 crops, espe-
cially oilseeds, pulses, coarse grains, and fiber crops. Since expanded



-7-
production of these diversified agricultural commodities will also require
irrigation water to supplement available rainfall, the irrigation rehabilita-
tion program being launched with the present project will inevitably play a
major roLe in supporting diversificatiorn. In addition, the Government is
attempting to intensify cropping in the wetter rice producing areas with
short duration paddy varieties followed by other diversification crops.
The Irrigation Subsector
26.     Irrigation has so far played a limited role in Burma's agricultural
development. Less than 3 M acres, or about 13% of the net cropped area,
receives some form of irrigation, and double-cropping is restricted to about
0.4 million acres or 151 of the irrigated area. These ratios are among the
lowest in Asia. Most of the existing public irrigation schemes were built at
the beginning of this century on tributaries of the Irrawaddy to provide an
assured water supply for a single main season rice crop. Government-run
diversion systems account for about 915,000 acres (35% of the total) under
irrigation, while private diversion schemes cover another 690,000 acres
(261). More recently, tanks and reservoirs covering 180,000 acres (7%), and
various pumps and groundwater schemes spread over 865,000 acres (32X), many
of then privately owned, have begun to play an increasingly important role in
irrigation in Burma.
Prospects for Irrigation
27.     While the past role of irrigation has been limited, its potential for
contributing to future increases in agricultural production is substantial.
Because Burma's rainfall pattern is highly seasonal, cropping intensities
will almost certainly remain low without irrigation. In Lover Burma, the
cropping intensity currently reaches 130-140%, since cultivation on residual
moisture sometimes follows a full main season paddy crop. Howeverp in Upper
Burma cropping intensity averages no more than 70-80%, since even during the
monsoon season, rainfall is often inadequate for a full crop. Besides
restricting crop areas, variable rainfall and poor water control also result
in water stress on growing crops (especially in Upper Burma) and flooding (in
Lower Burma), with as much as 10% of the sown area destroyed.
28.     Since only a small fraction of the water flowing in Burma's rivers is
currently tapped for irrigation, there is clearly a major scope for increased
cropping during the dry season and for ensuring a full main season crop.
This can be achieved through the construction of new storage and diversion
structures, drainage and flood control facilities, and pumping schemes. In
addition, Burma's existing irrigation infrastructure, especially the large
systems constructed in Upper Burma 70-80 years ago, has suffered serious
physical deterioration owing to long use and inadequate maintenance. Through
a program of rehabilitation, coupled with appropriate operation and main-
tenance activities, the fuller potential of these existing irrigation systems
can be realized.
Government Agricultural Policy
29.     The Government is increasingLy recognizing that upgraded performance
in irrigation requires not only technological development and provision of
inputs, but also strengthening of public agencies and formulating policies
conducive to producers' participation in agricultural development



-8-
initiatives. A number of major new programs have been launched or are under
consideration. These include combined flood protection, land reclamation and
pump irrigation programs in the Irrawaddy Delta; major storage-cum-irrigation
projects on prinripal tributaries of the Irrawaddy, Sittang and Salween; tank
projects on smaller tributaries and rivers; pump schemes; run-of-the-river
diversion schemes; and groundwater projects.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
30.     IDA's approach to development of irrigation in Burma has emphasized:
(a) intensification of irrigated production on existing cropland; (b) intro-
duction of diversified cropping on irrigated land in the Dry Zone; and (c)
promotion of improved irrigation methods for groundwater pumping, tanks,
multipurpose dams, and flood protection and drainage. In addition, the Bank
has sought to strengthen the principal government instituLions involved in
irrigation and crop diversification, including the Irrigation Department
(ID), responsible for the construction, operation ani maintenance of irriga-
tion facilities; the Agriculture Corporation (AC), responsible for research,
extension, and input supply; and the Agricultural Mechanization Department.
Given the increasingly important role these institutions will have to play in
Rurma's agricultural development, the Bank has recognized the need to help
them build up their human, physical, and financial resources. Institution
building, therefore, is a major focus of the proposed project,
31.     While in recent years, Burma has allocated significant resources
to new irrigation investments, it has also increasingly recognized the impor-
tance of rehabilitating deteriorated schemes and covering fully commanded
areas. Given Bunma's current financial resource constraints, rehabilitation
is a highly attractive area of investment, since water distribution system
limitations and flooding problems can be rapidly resolved using a known,
low-cost technology, and farm production can continue uninterrupted during
the construction period. Since IDA has been the leading source of financial
assistance and policy advice to Burma in irrigation over the past decade, and
has been the chief advocate of rehabilitation among external donors, it is
particularly well-positioned to initiate this important rehabiLitation
program.
32.     The proposed project, Burma's first major venture in irrigation
rehabilitation, would inaugurate a program for rehabilitation over the next
two decades that would eventually cover at least five large systems in the
country's dry zone with a combined area of 500,000 acres. The Ye-U system
has been selected for the first investment in rehabilitation because its
infrastructure has become seriously deteriorated in recent years, thus
requiring remedial measures more urgently than the other systems. While
paddy would be the main crop grown in the Ye-U system, the remaining
rehabilitation schemes would concentrate more heavily on diversified crops.
IDA has evolved a close working relationship with ID, which has resulted in
policy breakthrough in areas such as ICB practices, recovery of electricity
costs in groundwater irrigation pumping, increased use of critically-required
external consultants, and, to a limited extent, monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural projects. Through the proposed project, IDA would continue to
achieve significant reforms by building up ID's long-range planning and
project preparation functions, and by creating an institutional capacity for
managing efficiently ID's large and expanding fleet of costly heavy equipment
and vehicles.



33.     IDA Lending for Irrigation.  The first project approved in 1973
(Cr. 483-BA, US$17 M) financed some 13,000 low-lift pumps for sale to
farmers, as well as rehabilitation of minor flood embankments in the delta
area, equipment repair, and feasibility studies. Lessons from this project
(Project Performance Audit Report dated June 14, 1982) include the following:
(a) supervision concentrated on the project's engineering aspects, while
agricultural development received inadequate attention: (b) despite marked
differences in farm size, full account was not taken by authorities to
safeguard the interests of small farmers; (c) the project provided for large
centralized workshops, even though experienced mechanics could be found in
all villages, leading to underutilization of project facilities; and (d) an
adequate monitoring and evaluation system was not established. In designing
the proposed project, due notice has been taken to remedy shortcomings of
this nature.
34.     The first project was followed by two Paddyland projects (Cr. 642-BA,
US$30 M, and Cr. 835-BA, US$34.5 M), which are supporting flood protection
works in the delta area, together with pump irrigation and agricultural
extension activities.Ji In 1980, IDA financed a multipurpose hydropower and
irrigation project on the Paunglaung River in Central Burma (Nyaunggyat Dam,
now renamed Kinda Dam, Cr. 1031-BA, US$90 M). The most recently approved
irrigation projects include two tank irrigation schemes (Cr. 1315-BA, US$19.0
M) and a groundwater project (Cr. 1381-BA, US$14.0 M). Prospective projects
include an area deveLopment and pump irrigation project (Henzsda) for which
a UNDP-financed feasibility study has been completed, and repeater
groundwater and tank irrigation projects. In related areas, IDA has help
financed two grain storage projects (Cr. 1092-BA and Cr. 1707-BA ) to help
overcome post-harvest constraints upon grain procurement and handling, and
two seeds development projects (Cr. 145-BA and Cr. 1616-BA) aimed at meeting
the growing demand for quality HYV seeds.
35.     The IDA's experience in the irrigation subsector has been generally
positive. Paddyland, Tank Irrigation, and Groundwater Projects experienced
initial delays due to shortages of cement, diesel fuel and reinforced steel,
and slow progress in procurement and appointment of consultants. Progress on
the large-scale Kinda project has been good, with dam construction (43% of
project costs) ahead of schedule. As the Government has now acquired con-
siderable experience nti following IDA guidelines for procurement and
consultants, and several large infrastructure projects are currently nearing
completion (including Kinda), it is expected that these earlier delays will
be mitigated in future projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.     The proposed project was prepared by FAO/CP and appraised by a
mission which visited Burma in November 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Burma: Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project"
(Report No. 5524-BA dated July 14, 1986), is being distributed separateLy
1/ Paddyland I Project was closed on June 30, 1985.



-10-
to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the
project and special conditions is given in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from June 2 - 6, 1986 . The Burmese delegation was led
by His Excellency Brigadier General U Than Nyunt, Minister of Agriculture and
Forests.
Project Area
37.     The project area, situated in the central part of Sagaing Division
in Upper Burma (IBRD Map No. 18409), is the Ye-U command area of the Ku-Kabo
irrigation system. It is located on the right bank of the river Hu, an
important tributary of the Irrawaddy River which it joins to the south in its
swing to the west below Mandalay. The project area covers part of three
townships: Ye-U, Tabayin, and Ayadaw.
Project Objectives
38.     The main objectives of the project are:
(a) to raise the incomes and improve the living standards of farmers
located within the Ye-U command area, by enhancing water delivery
through rehabilitation and modernization of the irrigation
infrastructure and improvements to the Agriculture Corporation's (AC)
extension and input supply services; and
(b)  to strengthen the ID's overall capacity to plan and carry out the
modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance of Burma's irrigation
infrastructure, through the elaboration of a Master Plan for the
rehabilitation of at least five major schemes;
Cc) to create within the ID's Mechanical Branch the capacity for full
and effective management of ID's fleet of earthmoving equipment, and
to undertake the overhaul of a portion of the fleet, for use in
implementing the Master Plan and other irrigation projects.
Project Components
39.     The proposed project, to be implemented over a six-year period, would
comprise the following components:
A. Irrigation Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation: Repairs to the Ye-U intake structure, bifurcation
structure, cross-drainage and crop structure, head regulators, and
traffic and foot bridges; and excavation and resectioning of
major, distributary, and minor canals, and of cross drains, feeder
drains, and the Payanpaga and Koksi Chaungs.
2. System Modernization: Construction of a sediment ejector and silt
trap, cross regulators, and outlets at the heads of minor canals
and watercourses; provision of side and tail escapes in the main
canals; installation of measuring devices at branch canal heads
and at distributary intakes; construction of inspection roads and
tracks; and provision of telephone communications for operation of
the Ye-U system.



-11-
3. Incremental O&M: Increased outlays for operation maintenance of
the Ye-U system, in order to ensure adequate maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure.
4. On-Farm Developmeit: Remodelling and realignment of watercourseg.
B. Earthmoving Equipment:  Provision of 17 items of major new equipment
and 51 items of minor construction equipment plus spare parts, for
work at Ye-U.
C. Construction Supervision
1. Construction Camps. Construction of offices, dormitories,
godowns, and equipment repair facilities in preparation for under-
taking the irrigation civil works.
2. Engineering and Administration: Provision of office and engineer-
ing equipment, plus overhead running expenses, vehicles, and about
500 personnel of the Irrigation Department to be redeployed from
other projects.
D. Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance
1. ID (Civil Engineering): Provision of technical assistance coun-
terpart staff, and vehicles, and facilities for preparation of a
long-term master plan for irrigation rehabilitation and preparing
a second follow-on project; provision of technical assistance,
counterpart staff, equipment, model studies and technical assis-
tance for design and testing of the silt trap and improved Ye-U
system operation, based on new operational guidelines.
2. ID (Mechanical Engineering): Provision of technical assistance
counterpart staff, and facilities for establishing a nationaL
equipment management plan; and provision of fellowships for train-
ing in equipment management, machine overhaul, specialized repair
of heavy equipment, and scrapping of old equipment.
3. Agriculture Corporation (AC): Provision of about 60 additional
extension personnel, plus vehicle and fertilizer godowns for three
townships affected by the project; and provision of fellowships in
rice agronomy, cropping systems, and water management
E. Mechanical Circle Workshops
1. Mechanical Circle Services: Provision of fuel and lubricant
services, and tools and materials for base and regional workzhops
and engine overhaul shops; upgrading of a hydraulic component
workshop; and construction of a dredger base at Okkyin.
2. Workshop Spare Parts: Provision of spare parts for overhaul of
existing heavy equipment, to be used in future irrigation
projects.



-12-
F. Monitoring and Evaluation: Provision of staff support, office
supplies, and computer software of AC for the execution of benchmark,
mid-term, and final surveys.
Project Organization
40.     A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be formed in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF), similar to such committees for
other IDA assisted irrigation projects, chaired by the Deputy Minister of MAF
and composed of heads of implementing and related supporting agencies. The
Committee would be responsible for: (a) reviewing annual work programs,
budgets, and quarterly progress reports; (b) establishing project-related
poLicies and solving interministerial problems; and (c) conferring with
IDA on project-related matters.
41.     The Irrigation Department (ID), under the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests, is the lead agency for projects involving drainage, flood con-
trol and irrigation. ID would be responsible for overall project
implementation. A Project Director would be appointed by October 31, 1986
and would head the Project Unit, comprising senior technical officers of ID
and the Agriculture Corporation (AC), the two key impLementing agencies. The
Project Director would also serve as secretary of the PCC. The Deputy
Director (Mechanical) of ID, in close coordination with the Project Director,
would oversee the work of the Fleet Management Division in reallocating,
overhauling, scrapping and purchasing equipment and spare parts. This
division, under an Executive Engineer, would also be responsible for upgraded
workshops facilities and on-the-job training of ID mechanics. In addition,
the Deputy Director (Mechanical), through the Mechanical Circle for Upper
Burma, would assist the Project Director and the Construction Division of
Ye-U in maintaining the equipment and vehicles needed at the site and in
providing operators for this machinery.
42.     The Agriculture Corporation within MAF is responsible for agricul-
tural extension and research, coordination of fertilizer and agricultural
chemical distribution, and seed multiplication and distribution. AC's
Extension Division has responsibility for implementing agricultural produc-
tion plans, procuring and distributing agricultural supplies, and disseminat-
ing research information to farmers. AC would extend its Special High
Yielding Program to cover the project area by September 30, 1987, and a
Project Extension Manager would be appointed to coordinate AC extension
activities.
43.     The project's technical assistance and training, to be financed by
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (para. 45), would be executed
in two separate parts. For the specialized technical assistance required to
(a) design and test a silt excluder, (b) design the main and branch canals,
and (c) develop improved methods for operation of the Ye-U system, the
Government would either select a qualified executing agency (excluding the
World Bank) or execute these activities itself. For the remaining technical
assistance required for (a) elaboration of a long-term Master Plan for
irrigation rehabilitation and (b) strengthening of ID's Mechanical Branch,
the World Bank wouLd serve as executing agency, as requested by the
Government.



-13-
Cost Estimates
44.     The project is estimated to cost about US$26.1 M equivalent, includ-
ing duties and taxes of US$1.8 M equivalent and price contingencies of US$4.9
K equivalent. The foreign exchange costs would be about US$11.0 M equivalent
or 422 of total costs. These costs are based on prices prevailing at the
time of appraisal, adjusted to mid-1986 levels. Physical contingencies,
estimated for each cost item, would amount to an average of 15% of civil
works and 10% of equipment costs. Price contingencies for foreign currency
costs are estimated on the basis of annual inflation rates of 6.8% in
1987-88, 7% in 1989 and 7.1% in 1990-92. Price contingencies for local
currency costs are estimated on the basis of annual inflation rates of 8% in
1987-89 and 5% in 1990-92.
Financing Plan
45.     The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 M would finance about 542 of total
costs, including the full foreign exchange costs of US$9.2 M (excluding TA of
US$1.8 M) and local costs of US$4.8 M (net of duties and taxes). The
Government would finance about US$10.3 M equivalent, including taxes and
duties. The Government and the UNDP have agreed that UNDP would provide
grant-financing for the full foreign exchange costs of technical assistance,
training, and monitoring and evaluation of the project, amounting to about
US$1.8 M. Local costs associated with this technical assistance and training
(US$0.1 M equivalent) would be financed by the Government. The signing of a
project agreement between the Government and UNDP covering both parts of the
technical assistance would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
Procurement
46.     Project civil works (US$9.2 M equivalent) would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding (ICB). The civil works comprise a large
number of small, technically-simple, scattered works: earthwork, minor
repairs to existing structures, construction of small structures and
buildings. Construction would also be subject to seasonal weather interrup-
tions and would have to be phased so as to minimize disruption of the irriga-
tion system operation. These works are, therefore, unlikely to be of inter-
est to foreign contractors. Since no private contracting industry exists in
Burma, ID would carry out the work by force account. This arrangement has
worked well for the Irrigation I Project (Credit 483-BA), and the Paddyland I
Project (Credit 642-BA) and is currently used for civil works in the
Paddyland II Project (Credit 835-BA).
47.     Equipment, vehicles, and spare parts (US$11.1 M equivalent), with
an estimated foreign cost of about US$8.7 M equivalent, would be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank's Procurement Guidelines. A preference
to domestic manufacturers limited to 15% of the CIF price or the prevailing
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to goods manufactured
locally in the evaluation oE bids. Equipment, spare parts, and materials and
groupings thereof, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$25,000,
may be purchased through international shopping and on the basis of comparing
prices from no less than three independent suppliers. Such purchases would
be limited to a maximum of US$0.5 M. Procurement arrangements are summarized
in the table below:



-14-
Procurement Method
(in US Dollars Millions)
Component                       ICB     LCB      Other     Total Cost
1.  Civil Works                              -        -       9.25          9.25
(4.62)       (4.62)
2.  Equipment and Vehicles                  11.14    -          -          11.14
(9.38)                        (9.3B)
3.  Technical Assistance and Training        -        -       1.71          1.71
(-_)         C)
4.  Recurrent Costs                          -        -       4.04          4.04
(-)          C-)
Total                           11.14            15.00         26.14
(9.38)           (4.62)      (14.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
Disbursements
48.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would cover the indicated percent-
age of total expenditures for each item, excluding taxes and duties:
(a) Civil works: 50%
(b) Equipment, spare parts and construction materials:
i) Directly imported - 100% of the foreign expenditures,
(ii) Locally manufactured, procured under ICB - 100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory cost),
(iii) Off-the-shelf procurement - 70% of total expenditures.
Disbursements for civil works that are carried out by force account would
be made against statements of expenditure, the detailed documentation for
which would be retained by ID for review by IDA. All other disbursements
would be fully documented.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
49.     Over the past five years, ID has provided annually about K 2.0 M for
the system maintenance element of the O&M budget for Ye-U, or K 20/acre
(based on the net commanded area of 101,000 acres). Since these funds have
been insufficient, the project would provide for incremental O0M in order to
bring the total for maintenance of civil works to about K 32/acre or K 3.9 M
a year for the net area of 121,000 acres under rehabilitation. In addition,
items involving recurring expenditure, including salaries, maintenance and
repairs, would also be maintained in the future, at least at their current
levels in real terms. Thus, total O&M expenditure for the Ye-U system would
rise to about K 7.4 million (K 61/acre) a year. The Government wouLd provide



-15-
sufficient funds to meet the revised O&  needs of the Ye-U irrigation system,
end to that end, would (a) review annually with IDA the allocated budget for
o&1 costs, including incremental costs to be financed under the project; and
(b) based on this annual review, make suitable adjustments to such budgetary
allocations.
Cost Recovery
50.     Among the countries of South Asia, Burma presents a unique case in
irrigation cost recovery. Through a system of official crop procurement
prices, especialLy for paddy and cotton, the Government recovers not only the
cost of O&M, but also a significant portion of capital costs, even though
crop procurement is used to raise general revenues, rather than specifically
to met the public costs associated with irrigation. The other major
category of cost to the Governmaent ia irrigation-subsidies on fertilizer-
is also partially recovered through procurement taxation. This indirect form
of agricultural taxation typically accounts for over 95Z of government
revenues from public irrigation schemes, thus overshadowing other forms of
direct tazation such as water charges and land taxes.
$1.     It is expected that the government would recover about 952 of capital
cost. and costs of incremental 0&H and input subsidies over the 30-year life
of the investment. In present value terns, these incremental costs include
investment cost (57Z), fertilizer subsidy (35Z) and 0&M (8Z). The major
source of recovery would be the Government's indirect taxation of crops
procured at official prices. In respect to this project, the government,
under arrangements satisfactory to IDA, would make direct or indirect
recovery of 061 costs, and to that end, would (a) review periodically cost
recovery performance and furnish its findings to IDA; and (b) in the event
that the existing procurement system is significantly modified or abolished,
establish and maintain alternative and adequate arrangements, in consultation
with IDA, with respect to the recovery of OGH costs of the project.
Project Benefits and Justification
52.     Provision of a fuller, more reliable supply of irrigation water to
a larger number of farmers in the Ye-iJ command area, combined with improved
water management and strengthened extension and input services, would result
in an increased cropped area, higher yields, and an expansion of overall
production. At full production starting in the ninth year of the project,
the annual incremental output would amount to about 46,000 tons of paddy and
1,000 tons of pulses.
53.     At full development, the project is expected to generate an addi-
tional 1.4 million days (4,750 years) of on-farm employment for families in
the Ye-U area. During the six-year implementation period of the project,
construction activities would also provide employment for about 500 incremen-
taL staff of the ID, and the hiring of approximately 2 million days (about
3,270 persons annually for five years) of unskilled labor to carry out civil
works. This additional employment, absorbing non-wage household labor, would
help solve chronic dry-season unemployment in the area and reduce the flow of
seasonal migrants from Ye-U to the towns and to the tea-growing Shan State.
54.     The institutional strengthening and technical assistance provided
would enable the country to undertake long-term irrigation rehabilitation



-16-
planning, prepare prefeasibility studies, and manage ID's heavy equipment
fleet more efficiently. Complementing a program for repairing used
equipment, this enhanced institutionaL capacity would achieve considerable
overall savings and a reduction in foreign exchange outlays for capital costs
of future irrigation development. At the national level, enhanced agricul-
tural output in Ye-U would lead to an increase in export earnings and an
improvement in Burma's balance of payments position. Over the 30-year
period, the present values of foreign exchange benefits and costs due to the
project are estimated to be about US$32.5 million and US$17.3 million,
respectively, implying a lifetime net foreign exchange benefit of about
US$15.0 million.
55.     Economic Rate of Return.  The benefits to be derived from the
rehabilitation of the Ye-U system have been compared with the total invest-
ment costs of the project, minus the workshop components (i.e., institutional
strengthening of ID Mechanical Branch services, and spare parts for equipment
overhaul) which would have no direct bearing on production in Ye-U. On this
basis, the Burmese economy would be expected to earn an overaLl rate of
return of 20.2%; at the opportunity cost of capital to Burma of 121, the net
present value of the project investment would be about K 55.9 million (US$6.4
million). The relevant switching values suggest that the project ERR is
fairly robust: costs would have to increase by 26%, or benefits would have
to decline by 211, in order to reduce the estimated ERR to the 12% level of
the opportunity cost of capital. The sensitivity tests also indicate that
the project's economic viability is insensitive to increases in construction,
OEM and on-farm production costs. A one-year delay in realizing project
benefits without delaying the investment cost stream would also result in an
acceptable ERR. Furthermore, the project would remain viable even if the
economic price of rice were to fall by 20% below the projections used in the
base rate, which are already well below historical rice price levels.
Environmental Impact
56.     Since the project would essentially rehabilitate and modernize the
existing irrigation system, no adverse environmental impact is expected. By
improving drainage and removing flood waters from a part of the command area,
the project would help reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases.
Project Risks
57.     Since the engineering works to be carried out at Ye-U are relatively
simple, and ID has already demonstrated its ability to execute such works in
other irrigation projects, neither institutional nor any serious technical
risks are anticipated. A possible impediment would be the current shortages
of diesel fuel, cement and reinforced steel, because of large requirements
for these items for the Kinda project. However, these shortages should be
allev-ated by the completion of major works under the Kinda Dam Project in
1986/87. Cement availability would improve with the recent completion of a
new cement plant. There is also a possible risk that ID Mechanical Branch
may face difficulties in developing the modern technical and managerial
skills required to meet its expanded role under the project. In order to
minimize such a risk, technical assistance would be provided, especially
during the first years of implementation.



-17-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend thac the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 7, 1986



ANNEX I
T. AI LS t A                                    Page 1 of 6
BURMA_                   -ID4i1ALtNDfOAlrDfS DATA 51CtT
WRNi                   I                Kti PERS  ORU   (UlONiTlh AV9RACKS)
HOST 1s8?[ T RECENT BITINATC) b
197    ER?               Lol  INK COME NCL    O9
IstaLk      I       EiriHELb           AS11A I PACIFIC          ASIA A PACIFIC
IDEAC'EUDSID  Q. in)
TOTAL                                 676.b        676.6        57b.6
ACRICULTUM                            I06.0       120.0         10.4
SIP Iru CAPIA (UP)                          ..           ,.                             278.3                      1011.1
SWA  CUIWTION PE CR  W.A
(K1LOURMIS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)          I.n0.0                    %9.                    .                       366.8
POLATINION A   VITL STATSTtIC
POPULATION,INDY1AI  (THOUSANDS)   217SD.0       27137.0      35491.0
URDA  IPOPULATION (I tU  TOTAL)         19.3        22.8         21.9                J2.1                        35,
POPULATION PROMMCZON
POPULATION IN fEAR z20 (HILL)                                  13.0
STATIONARY POPULATION ChILL)                                  115.0
POPULATION NNNTUH                                               1.9
POPULATIUO DINSIn
FER SQ. KM.                          32.2         40.1         S2.S               IFI.S                       iNe.
PER sq. KM. ARI. LAN                209.1        251.2        331.2               153.1                      1591.2
POPULATON Ar. STIIUCTUIRI It)
0-A YIIS                            33.2         40.3         41.2                36.3                        18.)
15-66 YUS                            59.1        53.3          54.9                 4.4                        57.7
hS AND ABOVE                          2.B          3.3          3d.                 4.)                         3.5
POPULATtON GRUOWT  RATE CE)
TorAL                                 l.A          2.2          2.1                 2.0                         2.1
URBAN                                 3.7          3.9          1.9                 4.1                          .
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           42.9         A0.2         31.6                 1.5                        10.I
CkUDE DEATH RATE (PER r7o0Us)          ZI.D         10.8         (2.5                 I0.2                        9.4
GROSS DEPRODUCTIOP RATE                 2.S          2.8          2.6                  I.7                         1.9
VAStLT PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USCRS (Z LO HARRIEU WOMNI)            ..          . ..          5.0 I              &.4                         56.5
FMiw AMD NtIUTRII N
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-10D)                         108.0        101.0         il.0              L16.6                       124.4
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALDRIES (I OF REoUiREMENrs)         86.0         96.0        122.0               106.3                       115.7
PiOrEINs (ARAS PER DAY)              47.0         54.0         73.6                o0.I                        60.3
OF WIICH ANIrlAL AND FULSE          11.0         aE-G         12.U IA             14.4                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4A) DEATH LArTE           J.i         1.2         [I.U                   7.1                        7.'
LIVE EXPECT. AT BIRTrH (YERS)          43.1         48.8         54.9                60.5                        60.6
INFANT NORT. ILATE (PEC  tiwuS)       158.0        128.0         93.0                69.2                        64.9
ACtlSS TI) SAFE iATER (trup)
TOTAL                                 ..          15.0         21.0 Ic             44.2                        46.0
URBAN                                 ..          35.0         38.0 7              77.2                        57.e
RURAL                                 ..          13.0         IS.D7.              jl.6                        37.1
ACrESS rO LICRETA DISPOSALL
(  OF POPULATION)
rOrTL                                 ..          31.0         21.0 /c              1.3                        50.3
URBAN                                 ..          45.0         38.0 7              28.8                       52.9
RURAL                                 ..          32.0         15.0 7E              5.5                        44.1
POPULArION PIR PiIISICIAN           15560.0       8830.0       4680.0 ie           1318.0                      1751.7
POP. PER NURSING PEXLAN              8510.0 IE  7110.0         4770.0 7;           4690.7                      24.6.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
rrTAL                              1520.0       1180.0       iIOu.0 Id           1039.2                      1112.1
IIRBN                               33O.0 ;1    310.0l        179.0 7ii           299.1                       b5I.4
RtlRAL                                ..       15300.0      7i10.0 7             bO28.2                      2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         134.           ,.                 St.)                        41.1
HOUSINI
AVERAGE SIZE I,F HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4
UIL                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                           .
RINL                                  ..AL
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/I10A
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ........
PEACEITACE OF DWELLIS5 WITsH ELICT.
TOTAL                                 ..
URBMN                                 ..
RURtlL                                ........



-19                                              ANNEX I
SLL.I LA                                Page 2 of 6
IIOT                     (HST 1106Wt IflIHATR)
UC::Tg             IAiI Illl            MIf NLI O
191R1      197       TN             ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA A PACIFIC
MfiIUgS NKL"Et RATU
FIINAI i   TOTAL                  56.0       67.0        18.0              92.6                     100.7
KILN                   61.0        92.0       67.0              105.5                    104.6
nwS,                   52.0        63.0       61.01A             79.3                     97.2
SKCONIAAlYa TOTAL                 10.0       21.0        20.0              31.3                     47.3
HALl                   13.0        26.0       23.0               40.6                     50.6
nFM                     7.0        17.0       16.0               21.9                     66.6
VToa iwa (2 or *uOOmoARY)           a.s         o.a         1.6 b             3.2                      18.4
FIL-T9WER RATIO
RLIUaJ                           42.0        47.0        U8.O4             38.0                     30.4
UOWIAIY                           60.0       32.0        31.0              17.4                      22.2
PAShhK CAS/TNOUSAD POP              0.8         1.1         1.2 ,             0-9                      10-1
RADIO UCIYESTIUOUSAN  MOP           5.3        16.7        23.1             129.6                     172.9
TV fMIcuzw/u OUAsN DO                ..         ..          n.I              19A.                       .S
NEPAPIA (MEWIL  OMCUL
INTEURS") CIUMIATTON
PgR TNIDIES POULATION              11.3       15.3        14.4              25.7                     65.3
CUM  =AL ATT)AN/CAPITA               6.0 4      7.6 L                         6.0                       3.6
LABON -OR
'rOAL LABOR 0RoS (CoT S)         10404.0    11635.0    14066.0
FrNI (F6ASHy                     40.1        36.9        35.6              33.2                      33.6
ACIULURz (PRC T3                   ..        69.9        67.1 l            69.b                      52.2
INDUSTRY (tPCNT)                   ..         6.0         9.6              1.                        17.9
PARTICIPATION RAIU (ERUZIT)
TOTAL                             478        42.9        39.S              41.9                      3.9
KALE                              58.0       54.7        51.3              53.6                      50.8
FPMAL=                            37.8       31.3        26.1              29.1                      26.6
ECONOMIC DIO NC  RATIO              0.9         1.0         1.1               1.0                       1.1
TM  DiSRKITIt
PNCEr? OP PRIVATE INCOME
INCITED n
hICST 52 OF WUSENOLDS             14.6 /.
NIEST 202 OF NWSWNOLDS           64.7        40.0/t       ..                ..                      45.0
LOWEST 202  OOSES                  6.5        6.0 l       ..                 .                       6.4
LOWZS 4027 o  IIOUSROLDS          16.5 31    211.0 A                        ..                       15.5
-oo  TAUS=S6
LST TED ASOLUT POVERT! INCONI
LEVL C   PER CAPITA)
URA                                ..         ..         96.04            133..
RUL                                ..         ..         68.0             111.6                     151.9
ESrTIMED RATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUS$ Mu CArITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..         50.01l             ..                      177.9
U                                  ..         ..         36.0 id           61.7                    164.7
ZSTIAED  POP. BLOW ABSOUTE
POVIETY ICOM  tLV  (2)
URBAN                             ..          ..         60.0 f            43.8                     23.5
URAL                               ..         ..         40.0              51.7                     37.J
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICALE
O o r c s
La  Tbe groep verge. for each indIcator are popwlalon-welgbted arltIlmtic uee.  Coverage of counlrloa
M ehg the Idiccator depends oan avaUAb1Uty of data end La nt uniform.
Jb  Untams otbhrwise noted, "Data for 196W  rdefr to any yer betwee  1959 and 1961; "beta for 1970" batn e.
1969 and 1971; and detn for "RoelA beent lRat1tas" bemeen 1NI ad 1983.
es  1960; /d 1977; to 1979; 1f11962; LL 1978; 4b 1964;  It 1972; /1  1958, Rangoon only.
JUNE. 1965



-20-                                        ~~~~~~ANNEX r
PICIFNITION4 OF' NOCIAl. INUICATURN
Nites; Althotugh the dsIsta trrdriatti [ruinma.mre1ui. peurtunlyjsidlgd the meml .aihurliualwaenJ reliable. it hlioikillilhli he tminte lunit thteytin til ti ii cto ier.ii.miiit
-deeseihe orders ull' titagnulete. oidicimie- trLndo. uta deliatraeiwer 'rissin ieidtut tlstfrreieeq horween couigloric
Ibe rtrarutic  groups ire It t  he sAine ~ouiemry gitiflpl Iiif lii %ahjit,i i*111 I.tt  clild t I' a Vasuttiry pi iup witi iilIb   lintItitlii I .ilwedr iiii,iec4 q lsdt slit 4,4'li1SfI
fieU  iftilm SUbject enuissi) tess.pt lota "ttyh emomi lit n    .ii I    philp wlieii "Middle Inesinems Nnrt'li All sku  ditti NILmtlu1l I *1`I t inlIthili tw.i'   t siriipel
"il,slo.sullsael allineilnie In ihe rc(rer,'n. graitap Juts tlic Aeseheiea .iu piilmuLtemmm uu!iitititiia anlhttilfIlL Inverl, ftist *aettiiJiii'i diii tihotil nitt eli, *Iiairi
or the ounitriet in a group hasl datia faith htimdicetor Sline ther mieriii$  ill resliant i .11 eli..p the iiiia%litii depends uii alswsilt in .I ssiuiia antil gI   tilri
thec wumitry sued referencue grovups.
AREA (thrausnd %u.jkm.-p                                                           rflesh 3/ibi  Rare V per rhoasseNdi   Number id live ltirihii In liw ytatr
Totail  fa'tal suirface asei rot t finmts   ng luind  TIa nd i itiid  m ula   wAutters:.  (WF thotsme Itl' 1iin id- ~.eat pi'upulsi. si. IIlit). 10 7itns &I QI 13, lkisasl
19641, 1Y701 and 1913 data.                                                        Crod,- Danh Nasir (per iAnaaatisdj   Niuiti ii-i  uJdeati, ls inhe yonar
A.lg,kuhrurrf   ENtimate of itgriculituritil irn uwd i tepolrarily orF             pet thousitetd ol'mid-year population: I'Nlrul  '1711. uai  191N  dattat
permanently for crropoi. pitsturt-.. rimirkel niiti kitchen gardens Otr It)         Gsu, Reipedsmetroa RaftAcag  nttle   il.tgl,,.  ans
lie fallittw. 1960. 19701 and I')H2 dIttii                                          will beair ins bet normati relirodulucit    Ieriid  ofi she v%qierictites
present udge-ls:p1C il-Leftility f.ite%. ltisLlilli) filie-sca mi Stiapes etlitijil
(;NP PER CAPI1A (LISS)  UNP per c.Ilta vestiniates at ;uticntf                     in 1`96(1, 19701. aind 19141
mnarket prices., calculateld  bh  inc eilf  01%esrrs'n imethodit as Wise/sl         5JI(JPua/g--e-reaa  .4 nmasa  (rhetiawnaui  .Arasual niumi
BanA  li/enm I 1Q14 I  1.113 batosi 1. I14H3 datla                                 hier o)riiccs' pist itt 3 I Isoi I oisi tut  oiI   ac i isa-s uI ItaIler aus %pi ces  1-imI tinilIia
ENERGY  (ONSUMP"IIlON  IIER  (AI'lrA    Anniual apparent                            Ilismily plantitwli  t'ti'graru.
Ctitltuutnptitin  Of' commercial prirnut y encrgs  icoisi isud  lignite,            luidmly P/lJIiitiV-1'iifri pereerni ujrosarrlrd ueaunra    Ili    wit pet' e-
petroileuim. tuttural pa15 and Indho . nucil-ar dtid geoithermul elec-              iUiC oli mairried woimeta cofchild-licirnng age %ho atec pr-ueticrrig ot
trosiiy) in kilogramsrot o-l4il es4uisilentIII pCI' taphiti   19441. 19711. anid    whose hushuinds tire pir.ttcutijnt it ati,in, orctimndieteptiwit Waititnc
19142'dauL.                                                                        01'ehildkhartiigage iarc genertillv'wornenti aged 1 -49. telihuisigh l'iii
sorni  ecunittis culnrouroIrettve  i sil-aW  is nirasurtd  kit oither i5(tg
P'OPLIR IAnloN  AND V'fTAII. SIATIls rics                                          9roup'.
TitnaJ Pupsiulon-4f,id-Year (tihoassaudsi  A% olJuIv 1. 19est.. 19/0.              10)AN           NIRT          N
iand I 914. datia.                                                                  FO         N      t,k 'O
I rAts. Papdariaa  (pier-airat of r.ahslj   K.irtio  of uhan  to  totial            mite of Food Pruaduad tin1er Cdpita (1969-71i- Irk/i  1hum ,if pet
p.spulatioin. ciltlerent definittuuti' id tr4ntrims. riu%ii affCiet csmpar-         capita annual pnixltticim4n  ill till landiL ciinmniodeJit     l'ronluetuun
ability of' data amnotig  sitartiiries; 1Q10., 14711. atid  913  at                 excludes; animal feed :indl seedl rr :mgriculiure  hindm  o.vninus'd3ties.
110113 dart         includie primaury coitnuianlttte.cc p! %Ug4rCdatIe mnisad sft sugar I
Populatonf   Pirojnioaz                                                             w,hich are ediblr and coniain  iwuitients. (e.  ct.liLe andi teat are
Iloispratirmn in -erar 20011   [he ptitolcitontl sf plopsilantin I tr 2NNJ4.       ixnluded): rhc) ct-nn.prli.  LLcai%  itoLt cuup%.ple.   oil seeds.
jiude for each axaronliy 'tparamelv. Startiini  withi iniformatiion on              vegetiables. fruit. nuts. qugarcane arid siugar heets. hivesock- and
itotal pnpulalton by age aind sex. lertllmLs, raites mortaility rates, anid        livi'sti'ck pruiducis Aggregatte prod-uction oif each couuntry i% based
mitiermation-al migration in the bas git-vei 19MG. thes  parameterr,                i nslit nartu l .tverigr producess-  pnee weights. l')til uS. 19,f0, amid
'sare projected at rive-year intervals o.4n the basi-s Lif gencraliAnd              19142 data.
assunmptimm stsititii the pOUapul&eOn bdFritt statiistaaii.                         Ptor CaptaaSupply qfaiiUnbrie (prren-ea  o7f rssviremnaa'')   C'nmptit-
%rntnnarrpapala van Is sine in which aige- and 'et-spcific nmor-            ed 1rmr talnriee4uzisalent of net fiend stpplies available: in coiuntry
italily rates hiave not changedi over a long periodu  shile age-spet-ihe            per capita pet day  At.itlablv- sdppltLs comprise dotmestic produc
fertilthy  ai.te  haive riimitltancniusly retnlain-d i i replacement lev-el         tioni. timriprts. less Ciliktlst. tuiid chatigei  iti st,kL  Net supplies%
intl reproditit-io.n rate - Iij. In such a population, the birth wle: is            cxclude animnal lteed. seed  lair use in.igrutsuhre. tquantities uswd cin
o.-wnst t aind equal it) the death rate, the age structure  is tulsa               fhaLd presxssinp. andt losses in d.sttmiutmnn  Reqt4HtCmenItet   wetir
conmstant. and the gruiwetli rarte iN terv. Tue stationriyt pilputlatton            estimated hiI FMA0 baised on plirmmi'Iogical needls tair normal aietivitir
sater wits esliniaLed on the basis of the pruijected ehzaracerirslic% uif           anid health Lirnsieritig onviriai-uental ctrmrienatur. body6 weights
the pLopUlation in the year 2006. and thec rate ufteclvine Of 1irrtility           age and ses distributjion so population. andi allo%itop Wi percent ijir
iate Ito reIplacemnent level,                                                       waste at household level. 1l1i(,l  1)1(1 and l"N2: dtlta
J)tittiulairnt Moinenrrum    Is ihe tendticicy for po)purlatinn groiw Ilt t'i       Per rapita Supply of As-aien   f (groauss pee- daJ)   1Protein i stisitCiat sIL
c-mninue beyoind the time that replacementii level ferlilmt> has beent              pet -opita lie' 'pliPl aibootil rLi di), Net 'urppl  -I lind istletitted
a.ii mevd: that is. even aterF the nect meproduction rate has reafhed              as aboI.-. Requiren-sci, fa al  iimiuiW    established h3  UJSDA
strtiiy The moimentum  ofla populaition in the years isv meatsured as                    ld &   'tr~  mjistmu illnM  t4int-es%Ll ot ril joiaI11s or total liolauem per
aratio. uf the ultimate stationary populatioin to the populatiEon in              daty and 2t0 graMS o 01anfimal and pukec pititcin. at whInch Itl grams%
rhe year v. given the assumption thiat ferlility remainis at rcplaec-              should he attomialI pRotei n. 1 he..rN tandairds ar: lowci than those stf
meiLtit level frtom  year I onward. 1904 datat.                                     75 prrims of' total proteiin andl 21 granl ts 411an3ima  protein as an
Popuslarion Denrsity                                                               averajge tor the woirld  prOPOsses1 hi [As) in the Third World toastvk
Pa-r sq.kns.  Mid-year population per .quare kil.nciecti (Oll hee-                 Supplv: 1961l. 1Q70 aitd 112 dmat
L.IUts) Of total akrea: 19NI. I 470. andi 1981 datia.                               Prr(tapiaa Prnn(ie  Supply 1bunt 4ninral asd Puls   l'i.itcim  %uppll
11-r sq.Am  rigru-uhural landi  Ctmpitied a'. abuse foIr agricultural              of' Ibod derives) frnt.inisit;nsJ antLi piils" ill gralsis' pet dd' 1Q  I61  .
t.mrsd only. 19610. 1Q70. a nd 1914? d4ta                                           1970 and 114'7 dmat
Poepri'atien 4ge Steurnare (pfrecensi  Children (11-14 vears. wvork-                C'kfikJ(oel*f 1-4) Death Raste (prts hseomneur)   Nunitwi ofteastlis of
ing age ( 15-64 years). and retired (65 ywar Anid overtI as perccntIage             dlatdalee  aged  IA  years per thau-anrd children its ithe Qinme age
cil mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 19143 dats                                 group ma a gieni cearlt I  irnt'l dcss-loptieg 0icuti4rses data derived
Popaatios G-nin  Roa (prcen)--roia   '~nualeritith  ;it.. at'  i-one life tables. 10641, 19it) aind Il'l3 data
tiotal mid-year psipuakidan liii loI%ei 643. 19Qeu-7u. and thtsIEi. 
Populauion Growt-h Rare fpelirent)---aserhwan   Annual giowtlh rates                Life hirpe-rsnc1  asr Birth (Ycars)   Numbi-i tot l!ir.or  a eicsslsarn
ci lurban populatusin for  195-IO   li-71fl. and 197014  dat&a.                      nirtacim LiuldnU. ic,; ir pret-vling pattemns or  in-sahlat  f lo all teoilde



-21-                                       ANNEX I
Pag  4 of 6
at the time ofor its birth were to slay theo  me throughout Its life;  AysMtesachsr NRiun - prlmarr. tend xt.Iidietj"iinl  irkdenti en
1M     1970and 1933 data.                                             rileod in primary  nod swLIndary levels dividud by numhers ad
As/an Maneht  Raw (per theuaad,1-Number of infants who die            teatchers In the correspondintg levels.
before renching one year of ae per thousand live hirtha in . given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 dala.                                       CONSUMPTION
Acca to Sulk W fr fpa  e   of pt          us-, ua d                   Ptaunper Curs (er Mhemlnd peplaMJrloul  Passcngei Cer s mii
rurul--Nunber or pople (iotal. urban, and ruirlt with reaonathbl      priw motor can seating less than eiglit persons: excludes wmhiiul
pases to Nafe water supply (Includen treated aturface witers or       anex, hearse and mililitry vehiclet
untreated but uncontamInaterd waiter such to that from protected        *ab, Ra WCrIW   r tolntidp dpl#ronp    All t       olvs*frrLvti*  i
horeholes, sprng  anld sarltery wells) as percentlA    Or thelr respec  flit radi braidcasth to general publi pet thousand *, tiotulali uW
tve populations. In an urban area a public faiuntain or Naandpost     excludes un-licensd receivers in  oau1lifih andn  in yearh when
located not more than 2110 meters from a house may he coitidered      registration of radio nets wast in elfect data rot recenil yers imn
aN being within resonbhle aaass of thimi Iouse. In rural areas                            - 
reasonabl aexci   would iniply Itil the housewire or members or the
liouseolold do not have to spend a disprnpLwiiknate part of the day   TIVRI lwoprthouuadpovhons   TV receiverslii btinidCi
In fetching the rainily's water ndis                                  Ito general public per thousand popujlaiionLi. eludeu  unlicensed  ' V
Aceess to Extine  DIsfpou  (p1 arc   of popularnill-roal, urwhar,     receivers in countries antl ii yearm wheni regisinitoti or TV sts wmil
and rur  - Number of people (tiltal, urban, anml ruili) nerved hy     in elteit.
exsreta dispoia aus perceniages or their respective popuiatli.n4       Vwspeiwr Ciarioa (par tefsNamdpnuwlaita)  Show% he avye
Ixcretta diapoul may include the collection and dispohal, with or     4Cge einrtilitiiin ot "daily general inteiest newlpper." deflned a%; a
without treatment. or human excreta and waste-waler hb  water.        penodical publicalion devoled pniiarily to recording general nvew
borne sysitems or the use ol' pit pnvies iind milar installations     11 lb considered to he "tiaily" if iAppeurs at least r.itmer. iiit U weck
Piprh,n perhyskina, lbpulastion divided hy nunber ol post-           Casema Anual Aftendane pr  capita Per rYar  Bawd on thr
tinig physiciainrs qualified from a nedicul school at university level,  number or tickets sold during the year. includiing admisrions in
Pop.l.fan per NarsIa  Psnsa  Population divided hy number of          drivein dinenuta and mobile unts.
practicing mralc and female graduate nurses, assitutil nurs.              O   FR
practicul nurse and nursming auxiliaries                                   O    FORE
RpuIs'   pn Hospital &d-rotalt rban, and rea-- PRpulaiion             Tarot labor Foc  (rhausnad;)  Econoimically active perskns. in
(total, urban, and rurall divided by their resipeclive number                   ecr .ludcne arnied rorcs No1l unempluaed bu a cx lludingiltth lte.
hospital heds available in public arid private, general and specialized  viudentsc etcnr covering populailon LF ill ap9eta  in1ilB data
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    varouscountries ure ntl compainbic 19hU  1970ind 19h3 dula
permanently stalecd by at least one physician. Establishments prov.   Fersuk ({pemrrJe   Flimide lahnr foirtc is perentmage ofr iitil ih 'it
iding principally custodial care ate nut included  Rural hspitali.,   rorce.
however. include health and iedical centers not permanently stuffcd   Agrideskars   (prreufhl  laor torce in Itiming. liresir, lisinling
by a physician (but by a medical assiStant, nurse. midwile. etc.)     and fishing as percensage or total labor force; I961  19111 atul 19Nt)
which offer in-patiemi accommodation and provide a limited ralige     data
of medical facilties.                                                 Iadnstrj tprreah)  Lathor frce in mining. construcimon. flm;i
Ad issioa per Hospital BDh- Total number of admissions to *n          racturing and cleciricity, water and gas as percentage ol'tntal lahor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.              force; 1960. IY70 and I 980 data.
P       drthiata Rar (perone)-e4etul, mule. mdfMm -lar tiicipatitIn
HOLISING                                                              or activilt rales are computed as total, malc, and f'emaIle aStr .l. Lt,
Aerae S4r uaf Household fpermuas per houseiad)---tsrd, sub,,          as percentages of toial male andl Inuile population tof sll .gc'
anrdew- A householdconsistsoragroup  fmndividualswho share            respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1981 data  These are hased on I LO
living quarters and their main measi. A boarder or lodger may or      participation rates reflecLing age-sex structureof the population. i,I1
may not he included in the houselhold ftor staiistical purposes.      long time trend A few estinatse. are from national sotirces
Average Number of Persons per Rooms -wiw, aswim, nd rural             Econmic Dependency Ratio  Ratio of population undeii IS si nd
Average number or persons per rooni in all urhanii. naid rural        6S and .r.er, to the w orking Age populatio'n Ito 1 c  lmget 15.641
occupied conventional dwellings. rspectively  D.eclilrnag exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied par ls                        INCOME DISTRIBULTION
Percentage of Dwelings with Eiectrircrit)-eal, urhan, aad rural       Perragrqe of Taoro Dispo ahk lnwwe (borh i n twh and hard)
Conventionaldwellingswithelecincity in livingquirtersabi percen-      Accruing to percentilc groups of h.iuseholds ranked hv tonal house-
sage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively,               hold income-
EDUlCATION                                                            POV ERt1Y IARGE] GROL PS
Adjusted EnrlIvwent Ratei                                             I hr lollowing estimates are 'ery approximatic incastsui c. I pbvci
Pimnary srhiool  roral male and Irmauc -Cross total. nidle asnd       levels, and sh ould be interpreitcI wtih consi-derable sautuin.
female enrollment or all ages at the primiar) level AS prcentlage.s of  Esrimated Absolite Porerry bInenw Lerve a I5 pw,  ias- urbe
resipctive primarv school-age populations. Whilc iimany countries     tid rural Ahb%lune poverty income levl i% that income lccl
consider primary school ave lo be 6-i11 years. others do nor. The     hrlow which a minimal nuiritonially adeqtiute dirt plus esseniil
differences in country practices in the ages and duration ol' school  niinc-food requireomeiuts is nol affordable.
are rclected in the ratios piscn For sunic counintr  with universal   EKsrinated Relative Polers Incomw Lrri ei.SI per .rapito)-urbJf
education, grosw enrollmnnt may exceed 1)0X percent since some        and rural  Rural relaiivr poveny inoime level is f.nt-ad l.1
pupils are below or abhve the country's standard primary-schoul       average per capita pers.na int   n e    t,. .l.c.. unir%. t Irhan Irt:%d is
age.                                                                  denmed from the rtural lcacl with adiusimLmuil it liaglici tost di
Se'endar r schoil - retal, male and femals    Crmputled as above,   living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four yeai. nl approved pri-     Estimated l'uptiurm Brlow Ainmdue Prerr,r Inreome l,e  (pri
mary instruction; provides general. vocational. or reacher training   ceunj-- rber,  and rural- - Pivcent ol pipulatiii i urbin anal I1ii.ii
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond.  who Are -ahsolutc poor."
ence courses are generally excluded
Forafonal hEnrollmrent tpernlent ul a) stvdugrs   Vocational instilit-           (oinpiraiivr Anal sir diid Dltaii.. Di%.*i
tions indude technical. industiial, or olheT programs which Tperate            teonomic Anal's-s and Pr,i:-n umnN t)epariment
independently or as departments of secondary insitutions                                        June i'Ki



AIE  1
-2U-                                Page 5 of 6
WTPUT, LUOR 0OMUB  S
ZIODDMUCSYT! IN 1T1985
Value Added                 Labor io             V. A. Per Worker
Hi.Lon        -             MilliMn    x          -
Agriculture j/                    3.050    48.0              9.0       66.3              318
Industry b/                        814    12.8               1.6      10.3              509
Bernicea/Trado                   2.43    392                 3.5 u/  2_34 S             712
TOTAL                       6.37   100.0               14.9     100.0              427
OOYVEUIlfl PINUACO
Public Sector                  Union rovrnment
ieto Million    Z of MP           lZats Million     X of GDP
nss           FY85               FY85            mY85
Current Receipts                        e,693 dl        16.1 Al           7.081            13.1
Ourrent lEpenditurer                    7.387           13.7              7.215            13.4
Current Surplus                         1.306            2.4               -134             0.2
Capital Expenditures                    8.047 jt        14.9 */           2.254             4.2
Overall Deficit                         6.535           12.1              2.182             4.0
External Assistance (gross)             2.604            4.0
ONO. CRIIDIT. AN  PRICZS                               1979      1980       1951      1982       1983      1984     1985
(Kyato million outstanding at                         March      March      March     March      March    March    March
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                                 0.017     9.619      11.213    13.135    14,797    17.107   19.711
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          7.194     8.990      10.885    13.487    15.713    18.086   21.902
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        1.725      1.653       1.651     1.749      1.687     2.043    2.170
(Pereentaies or Index Numbers)
Honey and Quasi Hone  as S of GDP                      25.2      27.2        29.0      30.7       31.5       34.2     36.5
CY Average Consumer Price Index at Rangoon.
(1979 a 100)                                       i36.1      107.2       107.5     112.0      118.3     124.0    129.' ft
Percentage Changes in:
Consmer Price Index at Rangoon. Annal Average    5.6            0.6         0.3       5.3        5.7       4.11      6.7 1/
Batk Credit to Public Sector. HsrchbHarch            9.H       25.0        21.1      23.9       16.5      .5.1      21.1
Bank Credit to Privats Sector. March/Msrch            1.3      -4.3        -0.1       5.9       -3.5       11.1      6.2
*All date for 7783 (1983-84) are revised emtiaetms of the Covertent of Burma.
a/  Include, livestock, fishery. and forestry.
bh Includes mining. power. and construction.
c/ Includec workers not elsewhere specified.
d/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
e/  Includes capital expenditures of public corporation.
fl Average Jan/June 1985.
g/ Change in first half of year.
not vve Lable



-23-                             AN=i. I
Pap 6 of 6
ILANICI0 _PAIMUIST                                                  IURCIWIIIE UPOMRT  (Wr8S)
18       F184     fl1                                       SA Hillio n
CDI. iEionj
xportt (GMS)                          423.4    453.5    448.4          Rice nd Rico Products             156       39.1
Imports (CGNFS)                       949.7    669.6    699.5          Tsok                              104       26.1
Resource Balance                     -526.3   -216.1   -251.1          Pulse  sua  Boans                  30        7.5
3.it htmlo and Ores                30        7.5
Net Nectar lucene                     -44.7    -63.6    -63.0          Anidal lhedstuff                    7        1.8
Net Current Transfer                   23.7     47.2     23.4          AlI Other Commodities              72       18.0
Current Account Balance              -547.3   -232.5   -290.7                TOTAL                       399      100.0
Official Grant Aid                     77.6     65.8     75.6         TERMNAL DEBT, Harch 31, 1986
Not HILT Loans (DRS)                  324.3    177.3    186.0                                               US5 Million
Disbursements                       423.7    303.2    309.9
Repaymnto                            99.4    125.9    123.9          Outstanding and Dlibursed              2.219.3
Short-term Capital                      0.7     -0.4      0.0
Outstanding. including
Other Medium & Long Term Capital a/ -13.0        8.3    -17.2            Undisbvrsod                          3.2800
overall Balance                      -157.7     18.5    -46.3
Gross Reserves (end-March)             78.9    114.9     54.5
Net Reseves (end-March)                 1.5     20.0   -26.4         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR W71985                  I
Ratio of debt service to exporct of          42.4
goods and  ervices (excluing DIM)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1982 (IBd of Calendar Yar)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                      1BRD/IDA LDING,. Mrch 31. 1986 CUSS Milion
US$1.00 = K 7.78
3RD        IDA
1983(End of Calendar Year)
5DI 1.00 = K 8.51                                                     Outstading and Disbursed          --       409.7
US$1.00  = K 8.22
Uudimbursed                      -        287.3
1984 (End of Calendar YTr)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                     Outstanding, including
US$1.00  = K 8.75                                                         Undisbured                     --      697.0
1985 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
usS 1.00 =1  7.84
a/ Includes errors and omissions.
South Asia Programs Department
Division A
July 23. 1986



-24-                       ANNEX II
STATUS OF IBRD/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
STATEMENT OP IBRD ILANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan or                                               Amount (less cancellation)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose             IBRD    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and ten credits fully disbursed             33.12  160.11       --
835      1978   Burma   Paddyland Development II   -         34.5       14.38
879      1978   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation         -       4.5        0.40
949      1979   Burma   Forestry II                   -      35.0       11.68
958      1979   Burma   Telecommunications II         -      35.0        4.11
1031      1980   Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam        -      90.0       18.97
1092 b/   1981   Burma   Grain Storage                 -      23.0        5.02
1114 bl   1981   Burma   Wood Industries I             -      32.0        4.39
1245 hI 1982   Burma   Power I                         -      80.0       40.64
1253 b1   1982   Burma   Construction Industry I    -         20.0        6.87
1315 b1   1983   Burma   Tank Irrigation               -      19.0       12.73
1372 bI   1983   Burma   Third Port Project            -      50.0       51.46
1381 b/   1983   Burma   Groundwater Project I         -      14.0       14.02
1385 bi   19B3   Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation II   -          9.0        8.69
1425 hI   1984   Burma   Textile Finishing Plant    -         29.7       30.99
1444 bl   1984   Burma   Wood Industries JI            -      25.0       25.77
1615 cl   1965   Burma   Timber Distribution           -      17.75      20.49
1616 cl   1965   Burma   Seed Develcpment II           -      14.50      16.65
Total                                      33.12  693.06    287.26
of which has been repaid                 33.12    1.99
Total now outstanding                        -    691.07
Amount sold                       2.74
of which has been repaid        2.74       -
Total now held by IBRD & IDA al              -    691.07
Total Undisbursed                                            287.26
a/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/  IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits.
C/  IDA Seventh Replenishment Credits.
Items (b) and (c) show principal amounts in US dollars equivalent at
date of negotiations as shown in the President's Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1986.



-25-
ANNEX rII
Page I
BURMA
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Suppl-nentary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken by the Country to Prepare the Project:
Two years
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project:
ID and IDA, assisted by FAO/CP
(c) Date of First Presentation to the Association:
May 1984
5d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:
November 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations:
June 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
November 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-26-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Condition of Effectiveness:  Arrangements satisfactory to IDA have
been made witb UNDP to finance technical assistance (para. 45).
B.   Other Conditions:
(a) The Government would establish a Project Coordination Committee
chaired by the Deputy Kinister, HAP (para. 40).
(b) The Government would establish a Project Unit comprising senior
technical officers of ID and AC (para. 41).
Cc) The ID would appoint a Project Director by October 31, 1986
(para. 41).
5d) The AC would extend the Special High Yielding Program to include
the full project area by September 30, 1987 (para. 42).
Ce) The Government would provide sufficient funds for O& of the
Ye-U system, based on an annual review witb IDA (para. 49).
Cf) The Government would make direct or indirect recovery of O&E costs
of the project, review periodically cost recovery performance, and
furnish its findings to IDA (para. 51).



IBRD 184
BURMA
YE-U IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION
PROJECT                                                               Nip,_  mb
PROPOSED PROJECT:                 J EAB O
Roadstobelmprovett
New Bund
New Escape Channels
Bridge Reconstruction                                                             P
New Cross Regulators
EXISTING:                                                                   P2   Q  2
Main and Branch Canals                                                /
Distributary Canals
Minor Canals
Z'    Rivers and Drains
Bunds
Escapes
*Eil Headworks
-'_  Telephone Lines and Stations
Main Roads
Village Roads
Rallways
- 34' Isohyets in inches
A     Construction Camp
Indainggai.oS6
KarNbyaD                         *
Z    j M51ON                   L.  220-3'                                  --"'                        
=   ri  n  t lt,4tbinc  t    ;x.t                                                 -     -,              Singyun.,
.   -                            10          31ii !                             -  
260AJ                                 26ORA118?0   2
P                      l    |       2    *    6    6   10 KILOMETERS
G0au i                                                     =                            BaunggaP    t
3u~~In  0  ouinlgIn ~~~fg*  NM00 a,       ft IP.4 W af. hid -W r 'N
FEBRUARY 1985



BURMA
YE-U IRRIGATION  REHABILITATION AND                          ,1
MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                     KAIti!
SOIL GROUPS AND SUBGROUPS                                                   \
A.,qI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-
*    Soadoao4 Y 1    S|' 
.;@' 'd''t C', ,m' q                                  t'-
*ou ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
r                                                          Z
/~~~~~ ~  I; .' :12X. X% 
Ittdn.riqg           .ew9/ 
/ C-N_-" '\   "  CHINA
BANGLADISH                                      .atoi
IN l                                                                             *                              
Xj  !t J   )   {i     '    '    '         /         W-/                               N
0 B~~~ U R M A      '  .'$\9>S_
I HAII AND
I -,~t ..  I'.D'\\l 



IBRD 18706
A                                                                                                                  I I',w,,, A F I '.1  1 IV    I.... w.ill".
ABILITATION AND
4 PROJECT                                      U                     A        lit)                       . I                 ii.... ..
SUBGROUPS                                                   -                                                            I..,,; ..
et1 .m \ S /  -  :*  j       .. :  , .. .....I....,,-, . .. .-...... ;
Ss.-~~~~~~a                    .           /                     %1  ''^14.11 .11,... .,.., ,,1
bo".;; . // ~'                               II                                     .   .       I.I,.,..e,'. _'..1.. ,,.'.,,I-.,,. ,.1,,,\.
4       .11 M  4 I. I  .  I ;
t' -Xu .Gi. tRS~~~~~~~~~~~~4J ;1 I,< - --  . :*I                                                     .     1'I* .
II      i. t I,IA
P,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .
',, ' ~~~~~~., ., ,.                                                                                              .  -;'
f  _ /   ,' Xi-    B'<       <  il  . '.                                                      ...I                      r F . Il>
X,,,.,,,,,,,,  ,,,    ).,(   ,,v,  w >,  's    o (1,21-t"5|""'l1               ,  '',   '        f           S ,,,,I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   
j                                                                                                              lK'- silt. /  < , L; Fr--
4,,,      -f -\'i. *A i:@,                                      l' 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~hl.
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ,'"<tg-.8.d.. .......  -,  'I
ii                          ' ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f_/'#~  : , 
.I.  **~%,~  EKAY9
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                              EBUR .. tjj\r 






