CREDIT NUMBER 1731 BA
Development Credit Agreement
(Ye-U Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
.INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated          O    / ~ /5            1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1731 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         oclober    15-, 1986,
between THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (the UND?
Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Irrigation Department" means the Irrigation Department
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Forests;
(b)  "Corporation" means the Agricultural Corporation, a
state-owned corporation under the jurisdiction of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests;


﻿-2-
(c)  "Project Area" means the Ye-U command area of the
Borrower's Mu-Kabo Irrigation System covering parts of Ye-U,
Tabayin and Ayadaw townships; and
(d) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year begin-
ning April 1 and ending March 31 each year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1997, and
ending August 15, 2036, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 2006, to be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Borrower.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, for each fiscal year audited,     in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Director General   of
the Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of
the  Council   of  People's   Inspectors  of   the
Borrower;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
in any case not later than twelve months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said Director General, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records, as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request; and
(iv) furnish unaudited accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) above to the Association not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(ii4) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall provide sufficient funds
for the operation and maintenance costs for the Ye-U Irrigation
System and to that end, the Borrower shall cause the Irrigation
Department to: (a) review annually with the Association the allo-
cated budget for operation and maintenance costs (including
incremental costs to be financed under the Project) in respect of
said system; and (b) make suitable adjustments to such budgetary
allocations based on the annual review.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation or for the suspension of its operations.
(b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UNDP Grant shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.


﻿-6-
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for financing engineering services, training and tech-
nical assistance under the Project shall have been made with
UNDP.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or Deputy Minister of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             713-21300
Rangoon, Burma                      BANKFE-BM
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8--
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By                  o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               3,900,000         50%
(2) Equipment,                7,800,000         100% of foreign
materials,                                 expenditures,
vehicles and                               100% of local
spar2 parts                                expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Unallocated                 600,000
TOTAL         12,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the living
standards of the farmers in the Project Area; (ii) strengthen
the Corporation's extension and input supply services; and (iii)
strengthen the Irrigation Department's capacity to plan and carry
out modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and     he Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation
(i) Rehabilitation:
Repairs to the Ye-U intake structure, bifurcation structure,
cross-drainage and drop structures, head regulators, and traffic
and foot bridges; and excavation and resectioning of major, dis-
tributory, and minor canals, and of cross drains, feeder drains,
and the Payanpaga and Moksi Chaungs.
(ii) System Modernization:
Construction of a sediment ejector and silt trap, cross.
regulators, and outlets at the heads of minor canals and water-
courses; provision of side and tail escapes in the main canals;
installation of measuring devices at distributory intakes; con-
struction of inspection roads and tracks; and provision of tele-
phone communications for operation of the Ye-U System.
(iii) On-Farm Development:
Remodelling and realignment of watercourses in the Project
Area.
Part B:   Construction Supervision
Construction of offices, dormitories, godowns and equipment
repair facilities, and provision of equipment, vehicles and per-
sonnel to facilitate carrying out Part A of the Project.


﻿S11 -
Part C:   Institutional Development
Provision of:
(i)  fuel and lubricant services, and tools and materials,
for base and regional workshops and engine overhaul
shops; upgrading of a hydraulic component workshop;
construction of a dredger base at Okkyin; and spares
for carrying out an overhaul program; and
(ii)  (a) about 60 additional extension personnel, plus vehi-
cles and fertilizer godowns for the three townships in
the Project Area; (b) fellowships in rice agronomy,
cropping systems, and water management; and (c) support
services and supplies for monitoring and evaluation of
the Project.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for preparation of design,
and testing of the sediment trap and improved Ye-U System opera-
tion.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in The
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Annex 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 each or less up to an aggregate of $500,000
equivalent may be awarded after comparing prices from not less
than three independent suppliers.
2.   Proprietary spare parts may be procured by direct contract-
ing and other spare parts may be procured through limited inter-
national bidding.
3.   Civil works under the Project may be carried out through
force account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedure set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.


﻿- 13 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   In order to coordinate the planning and implementation of
the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter main-
tain:
(a) a Project Unit which shall comprise of senior technical
officers of the Irrigation Department and the Corporation; and
(b) a Project Coordination Committee.
2.   The Borrower shall appoint a Project Director by October 31,
1986.
3.   The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to extend the scope
of its Special High Yielding Program by September 30, 1987 to
include the Project Area.
4.   The Borrower shall make direct or indirect recovery of
operation and maintenance costs of the Project, and to that end,
the Borrower shall: (a) review periodically said cost recovery
performance and furnish its findings to the Association; and (b)
in the event that the existing procurement system for crops is
significantly modified or abolished, establish and maintain
alternative and adequate arrangements in consultation with the
Association with respect to the recovery of the operation and
maintenance costs of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


