Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2942 MA
                      (Sarawak Power Project)
                              between
                             MALAYSIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 21, 1988
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  June  21,   1988,  between  MALAYSIA  (the
Guarantor)  and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  Sarawak  Electricity Supply
Corporation (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project  described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  by the  Loan  Agreement  of  even  date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower,  the  Bank  has agreed to extend to the
Borrower a  loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifty-six
million dollars ($56,000,000),  on  the  terms  and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement and in  Section 1.02 of the Loan Agree-
ment have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if  any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures  required  for the carrying out of
the Project,  to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
promptly to provide  the  Borrower  or  cause  the  Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
     Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall take all necessary measures
to ensure, and cause the  State  of Sarawak to ensure, that tariff
increases are authorized  if  required  to  enable the Borrower to
achieve the annual rate of return specified in Section 5.02 of the
Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 3.01. The Minister  of  Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Guarantor  is  designated  as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of  Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 3.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               TREASURY                         MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur                     MA 32369
     For the Bank:
Page  3
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     MALAYSIA
                     By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
