FILE  ~~~~~~~py ~CIRCUL.ATINGu
FILE         CO     Y *0 BE RETURNED TO REP0RS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY                       Report No  1649-U
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO NIGERIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS.ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
IN THE
WESTERN STATE
June 5, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =         Naira (N) 0.66
N1.00                    US$1.52
N 1 million              US$1.52 million
Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent
of the U.S. dollar. Twice weekly, the Central Bank
sets buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar
and L sterling. The Naira has appreciated steadily
vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and by July 1, 1974 the
average quotation was Ni = US$1.622 or 6.7 percent
above the previous central rate of Ni - US$1.52.
The latter has been used for currency conversions
throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT IN THE WESTERN STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nigeria for the equivalent of US$17.0 million to help finance a nucleus
estate/smallholder oil palm project in the Western State of Nigeria. The loan
would have a term of 20 years including a five-year grace period with an
interest of 8-1/2 percent per annum. The loan would be onlent by the borrower
to the State Government under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the
Bank; the terms are expected to be the same as for the Bank Loan, with the
possible exception of the grace period. The State Government would onlend
part of the Bank loan for the estate component for a period of 20 years
including a nine-year grace period, at a rate not less than the Bank's
lending rate.  Credit to smallholders, would be channelled through coopera-
tives and the Western State Farmers Union (WSFU), and would be for a term
of 13 years including a seven-year grace period, at an interest rate of
9-1/2 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Nigeria" (416-UNI) dated August 5, 1974 was distributed to the Executive
Directors. Country data sheet are attached as Annex I.
3.        As documented in the Economic Report, economic progress in Nigeria
since 1970 has been rapid and sustained. During the period from 1970/1 to
1974/5, GDP at constant prices rose at an average annual rate of 8.2 percent,
with growth averaging well over 15 percent per annum in the mining, public
utilities, construction and transport sectors. Capital formation as a propor-
tion of the rapidly rising GDP rose from less than 15 percent in 1970/1 to
about 20 percent by 1973/4. External reserves rose from $264 million at the
end of 1970 to about $5,700 million at the end of 1974. Implementation of
the public sector investment program under the Second Development Plan
(1970/1 - 1973/4) also increased substantially, and at the end of 1973/4
about 70 percent of the revised capital expenditure program of $5.3 billion
had been disbursed. In 1974, the Government extended the Second Plan by a
year to allow for the completion of some of the remaining programs.
4.        The already rapid momentum of growth will now be accelerated further
within the framework of the Third National Development Plan, by far the most
ambitious development planning effort in Nigeria to date. The Plan will cover
the period from April 1975 through March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms,
is projected to be of the order of 9 percent per annum, with per capita income
increasing to twice the current level of $250 by tthe mid-1980s. Although
absorptive capacity is expected to remain a major determinant of the actual



- 2 -
si;e and efficiency of the investment program, development will be unhampered
byi the usual constraints of savings and foreign exchange. The Plan projects
substantial accumulation of external reserves during the Plan period, the
exact magnitude depending primarily on the economic conditions prevailing in
the world oil industry. The Plan also notes that the surplus of investible
funds will decline steadily over the Plan period as the economy rapidly
exKpands its absorptive capacity.
5.        The core of the Third Plan is the public sector investment program.
Total allocations amount to $53 billion, but the effective program is
pr*jected by the Government to be only $32 billion because of the substantial
sl.ippages expected. Public investment is projected to represent about two-
thirds of total investment expenditures in the economy over the five-year
period. The Plan's development strategy, as reflected in the public invest-
ment program, may be summarized as follows:
(a) Accelerated agricultural and rural development is the most
important aspect of the Government's long-term development
strategy. Public sector investment in agriculture under
the Third Plan is aimed primarily at providing the infrast-
ructure and incentives necessary for private, particularly,
smallholder, development. Planned direct public investment
in the sector, amounting to almost $4 billion, includes the
development of several major river basins for large-scale
as well as smallholder farming; an accelerated food crop
development program aimed at adopting and disseminating
modern farming techniques to smallholder farmers.; programs
to improve input distribution and marketing of food and
export crops; and the several agricultural development
projects with which the Bank is associated. While the
allocation is considerably smaller in financial terms than
the allocations for capital-intensive sectors such as trans-
port and industry, it is nevertheless a very ambitious pro-
gram in the context of the low-technology and smallholder-
orientated nature of Nigerian agriculture and represents a
seven-fold increase over the previous Plan's allocation for
the sector.   In addition, the Plan includes substantial pro-
grams in rural electrification, feeder road construction,
water supply and other social infrastructure, which represent
the Government's major efforts to promote rural development.
Recognizing that "about 70 percent of the Nigerian population
live in the rural areas and have benefited relatively little
from the rapid economic growth of the past few years," and
that "improvement in the welfare of the average Nigerian will
require a substantial increase in rural incomes", the Plan
also states that "in the allocation of scarce resources in
the course of plan implementation, priority will be given to
those programs and projects directly benefiting the rural
population, particularly projects to increase the income of
smallholder farmers and to improve the economic and social
infrastructure in the rural areas."



-3-
(b) Increased supply of public social services at heavily subsidized
costs is viewed as the major means of distributing the immediate
benefits of the oil boom to the bulk of the population. The
core of this program is the Universal Primary Education Scheme
aimed at achieving 100 percent enrollment for primary-age
children by 1980. Other significant programs include a massive
low-cost housing program for the major urban centers, and
health, water and electric supply programs for rural areas.
Financial allocations totalled $4 billion for education,
$3 billion for housing, $2 billion for water and sewerage
and $1 billion for health.
(c) Planned investment in transport, which receives the largest
single allocation ($12 billion), power and communication
($2 billion each) reflect to a large extent the Government's
strategy to create "in the relatively short time that the
economy will enjoy a surplus of investible resources the
economic and social infrastructure necessary for self-
sustaining growth in the longer run when resource scarcity
may recur". In these sectors, "investment leading to what
may appear to be excess capacity will nevertheless be
undertaken in the expectation that demand would catch up much
earlier than historical trend indicates".
(d) In industry, which receives a total allocation of $9 billion,
the objective is to diversify the petroleum industry into
downstream operations such as liquified natural gas, oil
refineries for export as well as domestic consumption,
fertilizers and other petrochemical industries, and to
establish basic industries, such as iron and steel, cement,
pulp and paper. Most of these large-scale projects will be
implemented by foreign "technical partners," with Government
retaining majority equity ownership. The State Governments'
industrial projects are mainly in the agro-allied and building
materials industries.
6.        The financial arr#ngements for the Third Plan involve a substantial
and very important change in the Federal/State revenue-sharing system. Speci-
fically, "as from the 1st of April 1975 all portions of Customs and Excise
duties formerly'payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would
be payable to the Distributable Pool Account; the percentage of petroleum
royalties payable to State Governments on the basis of derivation would be
reduced from 45 percent to 40 percent and the Federal Government will surrender
its entire share of both on-shore and off-shore royalties into the Distributable
Pool Account. Allocations to State Governments from the Distributable Pool
Account will be on the formula to 50 percent on the basis of population and
50 percent on the basis of equity." As a result of these changes, the States'
share of Federal revenues will increase by about 50 percent, and these revenues
will be distributed more evenly among the twelve States. These changes should
therefore ensure that, during the Third Plan period, the States will be able
to generate sufficient budgetary surpluses to finance at least two-thirds of



- 4 -
their investment programs, thus correcting the anomalous situation during the
Second Plan whereby State investment programs were being postponed because of
financial constraints while the Federal Government was accumulating large sur-
plus resources. Another significant government decision in this connection is
that revenue sharing will henceforth be considered an integral part of economic
planning and not, as hitherto, a constitutional issue; specifically, revenue
will in future be allocated among the various Governments of the Federation
according to their needs and ability to finance their approved development
programs.
7.        The Plan, recognizing that management capacity will remain the major
constraint to growth, includes several proposals to streamline project imple-
mentation, including procurement procedures to facilitate the production and
import of essential raw materials and capital goods, and to provide extensive
training for high-level manpower. Limitations on the use of expatriates for
high priority investment projects will also be relaxed. A more far-reaching
effort in this general direction has been the so-called Udoji Commission.
In recognition of the much more important role that the public sector will
have to assume during the Third Plan than hitherto, a public service review
commission was appointed two years ago to examine the federal and state civil
services, statutory corporations, the police, judiciary, universities and
schools. Its report, published in December 1974, recommended widespread re-
organization, including introduction of the principle of promotion by merit
rather than seniority, management training schemes, a unified salary structure
and salary increases averaging about 60 percent. Unfortunately, most atten-
tion has so far been concentrated on the new salary scales for the civil
service; employees in the private sector have also demanded and received, to
a large extent, similar wage increases, thereby negating to some extent the
intended change in salary differentials between the private and public sector.
At the moment, the immediate result of the Udoji Commission's report has been
iatensified inflationary pressures in the urban centers and increased dispari-
ties in rural-urban incomes. For the longer-run, however, the Udoji Report
represents an important step towards the reorganization of the public sector
for its substantially expanded role under the Third Plan, and the Government
is currently reviewing the broader aspects of its recommendations in this
regard.
8.        While a radical transformation of the national economy is the
long-term objective of the Government's economic policies, its immediate pre-
occupation relates to the intensified inflationary pressure caused by the
recent increase in prices of imported goods and services and the sharp rise
in domestic wages and salaries.   A major part of the 1975/6 Federal Budget,
announced on April 1, 1975, has therefore been directed towards measures aimed
at reducing the pace of domestic inflation. These included substantial reduc-
tion of import duties on building materials, raw materials and essential
consumer goods; abolition of excise duties on light industrial products
produced locally; and other tax reliefs for domestic companies. Foreign
exchange restrictions have also been further liberalized. Reflecting the
improved liquidity position of the economy, the Government has also lowered
the interest rate on Treasury Bills and the minimum and maximum lending
rates of commercial banks. Producer prices for the major agricultural products



-5-
have been further.increased by.l10 to 50 -percent. Since the marketing board
system was re-organized-in 1972/3, producer -prices for .the major cash crops
such as cocoa, palm -oil.and kernel, groundnut and cotton have -enj:oyed substan-
tial increases ranging 'from 1'50 percent :to well -over 200 percent. With respect
to the country's balance:of payments prospects,:.the Budget:appears to be less
sanguine than the Third Plan, -probably-because oil-production.has.decreased
steadily since October 1974 from-about 2.3 miillion':barrels per day to less
than 1.9-million b/d in recent-months. Neverthel-ess, theisurplus of foreign
exchange inflows over outflows.during 1975/6 is-projected to be about $2.4
billion, which should increase the country's external reserves to.about $8
billion, representing about two years import-values'by early 1976.
External Assistance
9.        There has -been no-fundamental change.in the nature of Nigeria's
long-term development problems over the last.-two years. However, the sub-
stantial increase in .resources has-enlarged Nigeria's.options and potential
for development. In this -context,'Bank project.assistance.has.a valuable
role, not so much as a means -of:transferring financial-resources, but as.a
vehicle for technical assistance to prepare and execute investment programs
commensurate with -the.country's-potential. .In fact, assistance to help
accelerate investment in the -more intractable-areas such-as.agriculture.and
rural development and to :increase.executive .and.managerial,capacity.in -the
infrastructure sectors is the.more urgent as-the country's .resources increase.
The'Federal Government':s attitude towards external.capital.is.that.it should
complement, not compete with domestic resources, and this-applies to official
development assistance as well as private investment. It, therefore, attaches
particular importance to projects and programs which-act as-catalysts to
investment efforts in.the high priority areas, and which increase indigenous
-capability.to control, manage and promote the growth.of the economy efficiently
in the 'future. 'The Bank, as.an.independent and effective-multilateral de-
velopment agency, has:become the major.source .of this type:of assistance.
10.       Nigeria'.s.creditwor.thiness is.not.in :question.  As of December 31,
1972., total -external:public and .publicly.guaranteed debt:amounted .to an
-.estimated -$1.,:03'5 million. 'Debt sservice in 1974 is estimated at less than
1 percent -of gross-.exports.  'In-view:of-Nigeria':s:substantially :improved
resource position, .and the attendant uncertainty about the :level of future
borrowing,-it.is impossible currently.to est'imate what the:Bank's share of
Nigeria's total -outstanding debt -or debt :service -will be -over -the next five
year.s. -Although the ?Bank Group':s.share of total external :public .debt (includ-
ing undisbursed) .at the end of .1-97.2 was -about .45 -percent, this was evidence
mor.e of Nigeria's low.level-:of external -debt -($15 per capita -in 1972) than of
-substantial -lendinglby the -Bank ($7..'50 per.capita, including undisbursed at
the end -of 1974). -Debt service is not.-currently.a relevant factor in determin-
ing Bank lending.
11.       During the past year, Nigeria has-become a donor as well as a recipient
of external aid. In 1974, it increased its subscription to the African Develop-
men. Bank and announced that it will not longer seek to borrow from that insti-
tution; donated $800,000 to-the Consultative Group for International Agricultural



- 6 -
Research, thus becoming the first developing country to become a donor; contri-
buted $120 million to the IMF Oil Facility, purchased $240 million of World
Bank bonds and increased its holdings of two-year Central Bank bonds by $30
million. The Government has indicated its intention of using some of its
foreign exchange surplus to assist other developing countries, particularly in
Africa. It has already made direct grants to several African countries suffer-
ing from the effects of the recent drought. During the Third Plan period,
Nigeria intends to intensify its aid efforts to African countries in the field
of technical assistance, scholarship awards, supply of skilled personnel and
relief assistance in cases of national disaster such as earthquakes, droughts
and floods.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
12.       Bank/IDA lending to Nigeria to April 30, 1975, amounted to $708.6
million (net of cancellations). In addition, a loan for a third agriculture
project ($21.0 million for the Gombe Agricultural Development Project) is
expected to be signed shortly. Of the total lending, $395 million was committed
during the Second National Development Plan period (1970-1975). The principal
amount of loans and credits disbursed at April 30, 1975, was about $398.7 million
(including IDA exchange adjustments), leaving an undisbursed balance of effective
loans and credits of about $273.4 million. Transport and power together account
for $408 million or about 48 percent of total commitments, and agriculture,
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan account for the re-
maining 42 percent. Gross disbursements in FY1974 were about $40 million;
and during the current fiscal year are expected to be $53 million. Disbursements
are expected to increase substantially over the next few years due the rapid
drawdown against the remaining highway, port and power loans. Thereafter, the
rate of disbursement will reflect the relatively slow disbursing nature of
agriculture and education projects which will then be the main components of
our portfolio. The execution of projects has generally been satisfactory.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank activities since 1970 have generally been aimed at assisting
Nigeria in the following three broad areas: (a) reconstruction and reha-
bilitation of the economy after the civil war; (b) institution-building in
the public sector; and (c) extensive economic, sector and project preparation
work. A basic economic mission and agriculture, education and transportation
sector missions have visited Nigeria during this period, and extensive assist-
ance has been provided to the State Governments in identifying and preparing
projects designed to raise the production and incomes of small farmers.
14.       The agricultural sector is the main focus of the Bank's current
activities in Nigeria. The proposed project supports the Federal Government's
development objectives of investing oil revenues to promote rural development
for the benefit of the bulk of the population. These objectives are reflected
in the Third National Development Plan under which direct investment in



- 7 -
agriculture, though still relatively small, represents a seven-fold increased
over the previous Plan's allocation. Bank lending over the next two or three
years is likely to be restricted to a limited number of projects where the
Bank's presence will contribute to the efficiency of investment in high priority
sectors, particularly projects that will benefit the rural and urban poor.
15.       Negotiations for loans for an irrigation project in Kano State and
for smallholder rubber development in Mid-Western State have recently been
concluded. Preparation work on two rural development projects in the Beneu
Plateau and Kwara States, similar to the three Northern Projects approved
in December 1974, is underway. A project for the development of small-scale
industries has been appraised and preparation work for two water supply
projects have been undertaken. However, the Federal and State Governments
involved have not yet decided if they will seek Bank financing for the water
supply projects. No further lending is presently envisaged for highways,
power or education, which were important areas of Bank Group involvement in
the past; however, the Bank will continue to provide technical assistance
in these sectors through the supervision of ongoing projects.
16.       Early in 1973, the Bank agreed on a 50/50 cost-sharing formula for
agricultural projects, and the three oil palm projects under consideration
today are the last of the projects covered by that arrangement. In the light
of Nigeria's dramatically improved financial situation, discussions have been
initiated with the Federal Government with a view to reducing the extent of
Bank participation in cost-sharing in future projects, and in particular to
eliminating Bank financing of local cost-expenditures.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA
17.       Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry is by
far the most important source of output and employment: in 1971/72 it
contributed about $4 4 billion or 46 percent of the country's gross domestic
product and about 70 percent of the labor force is estimated to be employed
in this sector.
18.       Nigerian agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented.    Nearly
90 percent of her production - comprising all staple food crops and animal
products, most palm oil and cotton, and a substantial part of groundnuts - is
consumed within the country. Nigeria is nearly self-sufficient in foods.
In 1971-72, total imports of food and beverages - of which meat, milk and
sugar are the main items - were of the order of $145 million or less than
5 percent of estimated total food consumption. Exports of agricultural
products in 1971-72 were valued at $265 million. Until the mid-sixties, they
were the dominant element in Nigeria's export trade, but have since been over-
taken by crude oil. Even so, they are still a significant source of foreign
exchange and account for the bulk of the non-oil exports.



- 8 -
19.       Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecolog-
ical zones; a southern wet forest zone comprising the Western, Mid-Western,
East-Central, South-Eastern and Rivers States, characterized by high rainfall
and a tropical climate and growing mainly perennial free crops, namely cocoa,
rubber and oil palm; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt
embracing the whole of Kwara State, Benue Plateau, the southern parts of
North-Western, North-Central and North-Eastern States which is underpopulated
and tsetse infested, but has a high potential for annual food crops and live-
stock; and a northern zone which, being free from tsetse has a high population
density and a fairly intensive and developed system of agriculture. This area
covers about 50 percent of the country, and in addition to supporting most of
Nigeria's cattle population, also produces most of her cereals, beans, ground-
nuts and cotton.
20.       Land holdings are typically small.   The average farmed area per
holding for the country as a whole is estimated to be less than three
acres. In some of the more densely populated areas of the south, the
average is less than one acre. There are few farm families with more than
25 acres of cultivated area. Farmers follow for the most part traditional
techniques of which bush fallowing and mixed cropping are characteristic
features. The practice of bush fallowing is essentially a device to main-
tain soil fertility. Mixed cropping permits farmers to get more output
per acre with smaller risks of crop failure. However, since improved seed,
fertilizers and other elements of modern technology are used on a very
limited scale, average yields are still low. Small holdings and poor produc-
tivity explain the relatively low level of income in the agricultural sector.
There are also considerable disparities in the distribution of land and
incomes both between and within regions.
21.       While reliable data are lacking, it is believed that agricultural
production since the early sixties has been growing only slightly faster
than population. Agriculture has certainly been growing much slower than
other sectors, and as a result, its share in GDP has been declining. The
relative sluggishness of agriculture is largely attributable to the exist-
ing low level of agricultural technology. The disruption of production in
the eastern states during the civil war was an aggravating factor. Since
then, the recovery has been hampered by short-term factors such as drought
in parts of the north in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but, more particularly, by
a number of underlying long-term influences. Some of the most important
factors among these are the rising age-profile of tree crops, technical and
other constraints to accelerated food crop production, e.g., the lack of
improved crop varieties and adequate credit facilities to finance the pur-
chase of modern farm inputs. Imports of food, though still small, have
risen from around $70 million in 1965-66 to $145 million in 1972. The slow
growth of production has also affected exports. Cocoa and rubber exports
have remained stagnant in recent years. Palm oil exports have dwindled to
negligible amounts and palm kernel exports are stagnating at well below
pre-war levels. Groundnut exports in 1972 were some 80 percent below the
1965 level and were even lower in 1973 because of the drought in the north.
In addition the availability of groundnuts for export has been affected by



-9-
substitution of groundnut for palm oil in domestic consumption and the rela-
tively better price offered to farmers by private traders. Cotton, once a
major export, is now fully utilized by the local textile industry and local
supply cannot meet demand.
22.       A vigorous effort to step-up the growth of agricultural and live-
stock production is essential for viable development of the economy. The
demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly. On a rough estimate,
the resources generated by the oil sector would be adequate to sustain a
growth rate of over 9 percent per annum in real terms over the next decade.
This will generate a 6 percent average annual increase in domestic demand
for farm products. Unless the rate of agricultural growth is accelerated,
the economy faces the prospect of large and increasing food imports. More
importantly, continued slow growth of agricultural production implies a
slow improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the population with
the attendant risks of further aggravation of rural-urban disparities.
23.       Nigeria has vast unexploited potential for increasing agricultural
production. The productivity of practically all segments of agriculture -
food, export crops, and livestock - are far below levels attainable with
modern farming methods. In addition there are extensive areas of good agri-
cultural and grazing land which, if developed along scientific lines, could
greatly increase production. While improved varieties and techniques adapted
to local conditions are not available for all crops and regions, much can be
done on the basis of existing knowledge. Significant improvements in pro-
ductivity of many of the major export and cereal crops have been demonstrated
to be technically and economically feasible. The main constraints are organi-
zational and institutional: until recently Government efforts to help the
farmers to learn and apply the known techniques for raising production have
not been on a scale commensurate with needs and possibilities. Extension
services in many states are poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions
are few, planning is weak and the expertise needed to implement successfully
major agricultural and other rural development projects is in short supply.
There are also complex social and institutional problems to be overcome before
the laud potential, including the resources of the middle belt, can be effec-
tively exploited, and the livestock industry organized along modern lines.
24.       The Federal and State Governments are conscious of the need for
greater attention to agriculture and of the impediments to be overcome before
significant progress can be achieved. Several major new programs initiated
within the last year or two bear witness to a heightened Government concern
for and interest in agricultural development. These include the creation of
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank, the launching of an accelerated food produc-
tion program, larger and better organized projects for replanting/planting of
tree crops and integrated agricultural development projects in different
parts of the country. At the request of the Government, the Bank has actively
assisted in the preparation of many of these projects. The Bank economic
mission in 1973 made an overall survey of the potential and prospects for
food production. Agriculture and rural development generally are of crucial
importance to Nigeria's long-term growth, and the Bank plans to continue
assisting Nigeria in preparing and implementing projects in this area.



- 10 -
25.       Oil palm grows throughout southern Nigeria but the center of palm
oil production is the three eastern states. Approximately 90 percent of
production is from semi-wild palm groves operated by smallholders. These
groves cover about 2.5 million ha and produce around 2.5 tons of fresh fruit
bunches (ffb) per ha which yield about 200 to 225 kg-of palm oil and around
135 kg of kernels. Total Nigerian production is estimated at about 550,000
tons of oil and 300,000 tons of kernels.   Exports of palm oil, which were
valued at N22 million in 1966, are now being displaced by domestic demand.
Palm oil is widely used in direct domestic consumption by millions of
Nigerians with annual per capita consumption estimated to be around 8 kg.
Demand projections indicate that domestic consumption could reach 825,000
tons by 1985 and thus require production of an additional 275,000 tons per
annum by that time if Nigeria is to avoid importing palm oil. About 125,000
ha of new plantings of high-yielding oil palms would be needed to meet the
projected shortfall. The three oil palm projects in the Western, Mid-Western,
and East-Central States presently before you would produce about 100,000 tons
of palm oil at full maturity in 1990.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil
Palm Project - Western State, Nigeria" dated March 28, 1975 (496a - UNI) is
being distributed separately. A loan and project summary is attached as
Annex III.
27.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in November
1972 and was subsequently prepared by a Bank mission in March 1973. The
project was appraised in November/December 1973. Negotiations were conducted
in Washington in October 1974. The Nigerian delegation was led by Mr. T.P.
Enodien, Principal Assistant Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance. The
delay in submitting the project for your consideration is largely due to the
delay in the approval of the draft loan documents by the Federal and State
Government.
Project Description
28.       The project areas are situated in the Okitipupa Division in the
southeast of the State. The lyansan nucleus estate and the eastern small-
holders area (eastern area) lie east of Okitipupa and the river Otu, and
the other estate and smallholders area to the south and west of Okitipupa
(western area).
29.       The proposed loan would assist Nigeria's Western State Government
to finance the planting of about 6,000 ha of nucleus estates and 4,000 ha
of smallholdings as Phase I of a program scheduled to plant about 19,000 ha
of oil palm during the period 1975 through 1986. The Western State Govern-
ment has already established 5,100 ha of estates since 1969; these are man-
aged by the'Nigerian Joint Agency, Ltd. (NIJAL), under a management con-
tract wi th the Western State Government. The Western State is creating a



new company, the Western Oil Palm Company (WOPC), to take over the existing
estates and those that would be developed under the project.
30.       The project would be carried out over a nine-year period (1975
through 1983) and would involve:
Smallholders
(a)  establishing a Smallholder Management Unit (SNU) within the
Western State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR) to implement the smallholder program;
(b) new planting/replanting 4,000 ha of smallholder oil palm;
(c) improving about 148 km of earth roads to facilitate all
weather collection of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) from small-
holders;
(d) operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders;
(e) training staff and smallholders at selected institutions
and through in-service courses;
Estates
(f) planting about 6,000 ha of nucleus estates to be operated
by WOPC;
(g) the construction of one new and the expansion of another
palm oil mill by WOPC to process estate and smallholder
production;
(h) establishing a fruit collection system to be operated by
WOPC for estate and smallholder production.
Project Execution
31.       A summary showing the expected scheduling of project planting is
as follows:
1976     1977      1978     1979     1980      Total
(in hectares)
Estates         800     1,100    1,300     1,600    1,200     6,000
Smallholders     400      600      800     1,600      600     4,000
1,200    1,700     2,100    3,200    1,800     10,000



- 12 -
Smallholders
32.       The smallholder new planting/replanting program would be imple-
mented by a Smallholder Management Unit (SMU).   SMU would have its head-
quarters at Okitipupa.  SMJ would enjoy a measure of financial and admin-
istrative autonomy and would report to the Ministry of Agriculture (MANR).
A Steering Committee, the chairman of wnich would be the Permanent Secre-
tary of MANR and comprising representatives of relevant Government agencies
would be responsible for determining SMU policy and approving development
operations, programs and budgets.
33.       SMU would be staffed wlth MANR personnel although additional staff
may need to be recruited.   International recruitment may be necessary for
certain senior managerial posts in the absence of suitably qualified Nigerian
staff.
34.       Producer prices for palm oil destined for the export market have
been maintained well below world prices since the Second World War, and
Marketing Board surpluses generated in this way have been used in other
sectors of the economy. Consequently, until the very recent disappearance
of palm oil surplus to domestic needs there has been very little incentive
for farmers to plant any high-yielding improved oil palms, and the industry
has stagnated. In the early 1960s an oil palm rehabilitation scheme was
introduced in the Eastern Region (now East-Central, Rivers, and South-Eastern
States) under wnich the problem of incentives was overcome by providing
smallholders with grants consisting of cash payments, planting material and
other farm inputs for new planting/replanting oil palm. Under the project,
grants in kind as well as credits in cash would be provided to farmers. Although
oil palm prices are now much higher, the Federal Government believes it is nec-
essary to continue to provide producers with such special incentives as grants,
in order to induce them to participate in planting/replaint, especially as oil
palm takes nearly four years to come i.to bearing and produce revenue.
35.       The smallholder grant/credit scheme would be restricted to a mini-
mum of 1 ha per farmer (the smallest unit that is considered practical to
administer under the project) and a maximum of 10 ha per farmer which is
the maximum that an extended family could maintain without hiring labor. Of
the total grant/credit package offered by the project, almost two-thirds
would be given as grant and the balance as loan. The grant/credit would
cover over 80 percent of estimated total establishment costs, the remainder
being provided by smallholders in the form of labor and hand tools.
36.       The total costs of clearing, planting and maintaining oil palms
until they come into production four years later are estimated in constant
1974 terms at about N330/ha. SMU would distribute:
(a) as a grant in kind: palm seedlings, cover crop
seed, wire netting, fertilizer and chemicals to
a value of about N170/ha; and



- 13 -
(b) as credit, in cash: NIOO/ha to meet labor costs.
The credit would bear interest of 9 1/2 percent
per annum and have a term of 13 years with 7 years
grace during which interest would be capitalized.
The smallholder would contribute the balance of about N60/ha in the form of
his family's labor and hand tools.
37.       Participating smallholders would be required to be members of a
registered cooperative society or the Western State Farmers' Union (WSFU).
The cooperative movement in the State is active. Besides, the Federal
Government, with the assistance of FAO, is instituting a major program for
the development of farmers cooperatives. The WSFU, which was established
in 1969, has limited assets and personnel, and needs to be better organized,
staffed and funded if it is to play an active role in the project. Even if
such participation does not materialize there would be sufficient numbers of
cooperative societies to fulfill the project planting targets. The cooperative
societies or WSFU would channel credit to smallholders and be the medium for
credit recovery and would guarantee their members' loans. In recognition of
these roles the cooperatives or WSFU would be allowed a two percent spread in
the onlending rate.
38.       SMU staff would receive applications, appraise applicants for tech-
nical suitability and would assess their creditworthiness after consultation
with the cooperative society concerned or WSFU. All applications would be
reviewed and approved by a Planting Authorization Committee (PAC) comprising
SMU's Manager as Chairman, the Controller of Field Operations, the Financial
Controller and representative of the cooperative societies or WSFU.
39.       Each successful applicant would complete and sign a tripartite
sub-loan agreement in a form with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, setting our the amount, terms, conditions and schedule of loan repay-
ments and including an undertaking by the smallholder to sell his fresh
fruit bunches (ffb) to the central processing mill. Monthly credit repay-
ments would be calculated on a per ha basis and would be made by deductions
from the proceeds of each farmer's sales to the mill.
Estates
40.       The estate component of the project comprises the expansion of
the State-owned estates in the Okitipupa division from their existing 5,100
ha to about 11,000 ha. Linking a nucleus estate with smallholder develop-
ment offers advantages in the spheres of employment, extension, and process-
ing. All smallholdings would be within a maximum 25 km range from the palm
oil mills which would process their production. The employment opportunities
on the nucleus estates would provide a regular source of income for members
of the surrounding smallholder community. The technical experience gained by
members of the smallholder community working in the estates -- under well
supervised conditions -- should, through the process of diffusion, serve as a
valuable extension factor in the smallholder planting component of the project.



- 14 -
To attain the high level of efficiency possible in a large central mill, a
continuous and adequate supply of ffb is needed. With regular supplies from
a nucleus estate, the risk of large variations in mill throughout due to
fluctuations in output from smallholdings is considerably reduced.
41.       At full maturity in 1988 project smallholder and estate production
is estimated to reach 115,000 tons of ffb.    Estates already established by
NIJAL are estimated to produce 59,600 tons. In total, 96,000 tons would be
produced in the western area and 78,600 in the eastern area. MANR has com-
missioned a new mill at Okitipupa with an initial capacity of 20 tons/hour
but designed for expansion to 60 tons/hour. Under the project the Okitipupa
mill would be expanded by 10 tons/hour capacity to 30 tons/hour and a new
mill (20 tons/hour) would be built between Omi-Orisa and Iyansan estate.
At full maturity and during the peak month, about 200 tons of ffb would have
to be collected each day Lrom smallholders. To facilitate the collection
of ffb at roadside pick-up points, smallholder plantings would be restricted
to areas within 600 meters of a road usable by 7-ton trucks all year round.
WOPC would be responsible for the establishment and operation of the oil
mills and fruit collection system. A condition for loan disbursement for the
palm oil mills and fruit collection system would be that the SMU and the Tree
Crop Section of MEU had confirmed that WOPC's mill development proposals sat-
isfy project requirements.
Evaluation and Research
42.       The Tree Crop Section in the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of
the Federal Department of Agriculture would be responsible for monitoring
and evaluating the project on behalf of the Federal Government.
Project Costs
43.       Project costs over the nine-year development period (1975-1983)
are estimated at US$34.0 million of which the foreign exchange component
would be US$11.9 million. Details of project costs are given in Annex III.
Project costs include physical contingencies of 12 percent of the cost of
civil works for the oil mills and 5 percent of all other costs. Price
contingencies calculated over base costs and physical contingencies allow
for: compounded increase in the cost of (a) civil works (buildings and
houses) and 18 percent in 1974, 15 percent in 1975, and 12 percent annually
thereafter; (b) vehicles, office and mill equipment, and non-labor farm
inputs are 14 percent in 1974, 11 percent in 1975, and 7 1/2 percent an-
nually thereafter; and (c) other items -- labor, salaries, operating costs,
consultant services, and training -- of 7 percent annually. Contingencies
amount to US$14.2 million equivalent to 72 percent of base costs or 42 per-
cent of total project costs. It is recommended that the Bank should finance
50 percent of total projects costs which would be equivalent to the foreign
exchange costs (US$11.9 million) and US$5.1 million of local costs (see
following paragraph). The loan would be for a period of 20 years including
a five-year grace period. The Bank loan would be onlent to the State
Government and the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 15 -
The remaining project costs would be financed by the State Government (US$16.4
million) and smallholders (US$0.6 million). A summary of the proposed financ-
ing plan including contingencies for the project is given as follows:
Summary of Financing Plan
Total      IBRD       State Government     Farmers
(US$ million)
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment        3.4        2.0             0.8              0.6
SMU                        3.6        1.5             2.1               -
WOPC Program              27.0       13.5            13.5               -
Total                     34.0       17.0            16.4              0.6
Percentage                 100         50              49                1
44.       The proposed financing of some local currency expenditures under
this loan derives from the understanding reached with the Nigerian Government
in 1973 that under the circumstances then prevailing, it would be appropriate
for the Bank to finance up to 50 percent of the cost of agricultural projects.
However, as explained in paragraph 16 above, new cost-sharing arrangements
adapted to Nigeria's new economic and financial circumstances are now under
discussion with the Nigerian Government and future loans are not expected to
incorporate provision for local expenditure financing.
45.       Western State Government would onlend part of the Bank loan and
make its own contribution totalling US$27.0 million, to WOPC at a rate not
less than that of the Bank loan, for a period of 20 years including a nine-
year grace period for repayment of principal. The State Government would
use the remainder of the Bank loan and its own contribution totalling US$6.4
million to finance SMU (US$3.6 million), and grants (US$1.8 million), and
credits (US$1.0 million). Credits made to smallholders would be channeled
through the cooperatives and WSFU branches where applicable. Sub-loans to
cooperatives and WSFU would be for a term of 13 years including a seven-
year grace period at an interest rate of 7-1/2 percent. Credit to smallholders
would be for a term of 13 years including a seven-year grace period at an
interest rate of 9-1/2 percent. From its own funds the State Government would
make an equity contribution to WOPC (not part of project costs) estimated at
US$400,000, to cover working capital in the development period. Retroactive
financing of US$100,000 is proposed to cover cost of establishment of nurseries
and appointment of key personnel with affect from November 1, 1974.
Markets
46.       Historical trends and the projected growth of supply and demand for
palm oil in Nigeria indicate that by 1985, and without the introduction of an
oil palm development program, there would be a shortfall of around 275,000
tons of palm oil required for domestic consumption. The proposed project
is aimed at reducing this shortfall and project produced palm oil should
find a ready market within Nigeria.



- 16 -
47.       The Western State Marketing Board is authorized, under current
legislation, to purchase all palm oil and kernels offered for sale. As
the MSarketing Board functioned in the past as much as a taxation mechanism
as a price stabilization agency, it has jealously guarded its rights to
purchase palm oil surplus to domestic needs. In particular it has tended
to treat the production of oil palm estates as being in the latter cate-
gory. In recent years, however, it has permitted estates to sell oil on
the domestic market although it would appear to retain the power to pur-
chase their oil. Given this situation an assurance and obtained during nego-
tiations that WOPC would be permitted to sell its palm oil freely on the domes-
tic market in order to ensure that WOPC and smallholders would receive the full
market value of their production.
Procurement
48.       Vehicles, fertilizers, insecticides, polybags, tools, and wire
netting valued at about $US$2.8 million would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines except for contracts
of less than US$25,000. The oil mills - civil works and equipment - valued at
about US$5.3 million would be procured through a single responsibility contract
through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for buildings,
office equipment, and road construction valued at about US$1.7 million are
not suitable for international competitive bidding because of their size and
location. Contracts for buildings and road construction would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts under US$25,000
and for office equipment would be procured after inviting quotations from at
least three suppliers. A major part of project costs would be for smallholder
labor, salaries, training and the operating expenses of SMU, valued at about
US$3.0 million and estate labor, land acquisition, salaries, operating expenses
and NIJAL's management fee valued at about US$7.2 million, none of which would
be suitable for any form of competitive bidding. The services of expatriates
staff and consultants would be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference
or the applicable import duties whichever is lower when comparing bids with
those of foreign manufacturers. A 7.5 percent preference for domestic
civil works contractors would apply.
Disbursement
49.       The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$17.0 million) would be disbursed
over nine years (1975-1983) and would be expended against the following
categories:
(a) 75 percent of grants and credits to smallholders,
totalling US$1.2 million;
(b) 40 percent of SMU's costs totalling US$1.0
million;



- 17 
(c)  50 percent of the costs of W0PC's estate develop-
ment, totalling US$5.0 million;
(d) 50 percent of WOPC's investment in palm oil mill
and fruit collection, totalling US$2.7 million;
and
(e)  an unallocated amount of US$7.1 million to cover
physical and price contingencies.
50.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documenta-
tion, contracts and certified records of expenditure. For disbursements
made against certified records of expenditure, documentation would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by aSU and WOPC for scrutiny by
Bank supervision missions.
Economic Rate of Return and Benefit
51.       The economic rate of retirn from investment in the project is
estimated at 18.9 percent for the smallholder component and 18.7 for the
estate component.
52.       The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in palm oil and kernel production estimated respectively at 25,300
tons and 5,750 tons, annually at maturity in 1988 and thereafter. The gross
return (in constant 1974 terms) from 2 ha would start at N 70.0 in the first
year of production (Year 4), rising to N 298.0 during the farmer's loan re-
payment period (Years 7 - 12) and thereafter would average about N 370.0 in
maturity. These returns compare favorably with those obtainable from alterna-
tive tree or food crops, even where improved management and planting material
are used. After establishment a 2 ha planting would require between 50 and 70
mandays a year for maintenance and harvesting, and gross returns per manday
would rise rapidly from N 1.3 in the year of first production (Year 4) to an
average of N 4.5 during Years 7 - 12 of loan repayment and N 6.2 thereafter.
At full maturity the estates would provide full employment for 700 workers;
based on an average holding of 2 ha, 2,000 farmers would benefit from the small-
holder component and, assuming an average family size of 6 - 7, some 18,000
people in all would be affected. The project would generate some 8,300 man
years of employment during the development period. Some of the more impor-
tant secondary benefits that would accrue from the project include (a) it
would demonstrate the feasibility of a well supervised agricultural credit
scheme; (b) it would form and strengthen an agricultural extension service
which would be able to handle further phases of the oil palm program or use
its experience for diversification into other crops; (c) the cooperative
movement would be strengthened, both organizationally through their parti-
cipation in the project as well as financially; (d) the institutional frame-
work established under the project should ultimately facilitate the provision
of credit not only for oil palm planting but also for other crops grown by
participating farmers and their neighbors; (e) the improvement of roads un-
der the project would benefit both farmers and the project area community in
general and induce such secondary effects as a greater volume of public



- 18 -
transportation, easier access for farm products to markets, greater avail-
ability of goods and services to the project area and a possible lowering of
transport coats.
Risks
53..      Any agricultural project dealing mainly with smallholders, the
success of which.depends largely on adequate rainfall as well as the timely
control of a number of husbandry operations,, involves risks. However, it
is believed that the project would minimize such risks,, given the provision
of competent management and intensive field supervision.. No. serious ecolo-
giLcal risks are envisaged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and.the Bank and the draft Proj.ect Agreement between the Bank and the
Western State of Nigeria, the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 6 (iii.) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text
of a Resolution approving the.proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
55.       Condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a), WOPC has taken possession, under 99-year lease, of all lands
acquired by the State for conveyance to WOPC to enable it to
develop the project estates;
(b). subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank had been
signed between FMG and the State Government, and the State
Government and WOPC;
(c)  the State Government had established and funded a proJect
bank account;
(d). SMU. has been established and its senior management positions
filled;
(e)  WOPC had been established and that arrangements acceptable
to the Bank.had been made for its management.
and' are reflected in Section 7.01 of Article VII of the Loan Agreement.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



lANNE I
Page I of 3 pewse
OwUNMtY DATA - NIGERIA
ARIA                                                POPULATION                                   mmsIT
923 .768  RaD               69.52     "ion (aod-1972)                      ~~~~    ~~215  Per helof arable land
90CIAL INDICATORS
DNP FIR CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) a I                                             130 /a           130    ~      300 /        750 /
DEMOGRAPHIC
C_redo OSrrth rat. (per thouaad)                            53-57               50 /p51 /p_d                   47 /p.      45
Crude death rats (per thousand)                                .                 5       ~       1             8Za 
Infant ertality rate (per thousan    Lie" births)                               25.  .T -.             d       i.          61
Life s~~~ctaccy at birth (year.)               3~~~~~~7         10 /c            4.9          1L7 /c       65
Oro." reproduction :ato /2                                     *.L 3.3                               c        3.2         3.1.
Population growth rat  La ra                                  2.2              2..32h/63c
PoPulation growth rate.    ra                                  11 /h.1                                                    3.68,0
APe ado.'re       recpot)
0- 1.                                        1~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~3/f  4.5  457  46 I
i61.-    -                                                   55    n          53                            195
Ag.  apnd.ocyr -ti78                                                            24               34            .0
Er- depedency    -     -io/1                                  0.8 71-                  0.9      0            1.0          1.0
Eronceic dependency relic II.                 ~~~~~~~~1.b r71.                  1.6           1.4         2.0
Ulban population .a percent of total                             /i, 1.n        23 La     ~      28 /k         32 /I       60 
Family Planning:- No. of acoaptore ouculatinm  (thaca.        ......i
No. of usars (% of married mmen)            ...2 ~
WDgrWDT
Total   bor force (thousands)                              18,300   fl      22,501 k         18,000 /       3,500 /c   13,000
Perosotage eeployed in agicultura                            71               67 L      ~      58 Li         55          40h
Percantage unemployed                                        ...2                                    v 
IN0lOM DISTRIBUTION
PerentofatI      .al income received by highest 5%                                                                          3 ..6.  /r
Percent of national Income r:oei,ed by highwat 20%            6.                                                                  .r.
Percent of national income reomivad by lbeset 20%.....*1
Percen.t of nati.oal income ra.i-ad by lamest 40%             4..                               .                            l
MISTRIBUTON OF LAND OWRSNV
N Owned by~ top 10% or owiwna...
% owned by wmlleat 10% of ownero                               ..
FMALTH ADNI.TO
Po~~~1Iii1~~~~W~~F~~sicico ~~~52, O(                         20,530 It         3,800 ~5     12,950 L      1,110
PoPulation per -dving Preron                                6,11             L 220 Tt         7,00~         1,070 t~    1,570
fPoulation par hospital had                                 1,860            I 1850           1,660           760         930
Per cepita colorn, spply as 9 of requiresents 513                   c9                           99            92         1-10
Per capita protein scpply, total (gcaes per dayT/6             6                 05                             66
Of which, animal and pulse6 17                                                1609165
D. ath rit.  -4 y..ra /717                          c           16               IL1 /d        10           28
ZDJCATI0N
Adjustd /B primary school enrolllmet ratio                     37               31 1h8                                     0
Adjusted   aec     ry -coo    enrollwant ratio                  3                L.              16 LLs.z       5          23
Years of    calhonlg provided, first and woond level           12.              11               10 ~,         15          12
Vocational enrolleent as % of asC. achool enrollment            5                8                1            23          21 I
Adult 2iteracy rate %                                          ..                                ..
TPe.ag   No. of person   per rune, (urban)                     3.0 I.cc         ...*                                       2./s
Percent of occupied anIta without, piped eater                 *.6
Aoceas to eleotricity (aso   of total population)              iibad           ..                .1
Percent of fural population connected to sleotrioity           .1/    ,d                                        75
CONSOTO
Pa.    r.-!einespe 100population                                 I               27/              IL,/4,       85 LsA      301Ia
-ssnger car   per      ppulation                             0.7                2/iw24j                       4           28a7
Ileot'ic Power consumption (beih P...)                         1i               377      ~      11aa          38~          6 
Newsprint connacptlon p.c. kg per year                        0.                        ~       031           0.1         1.866
Not6s I Figures refer either to the latest periods or tro            'conocto    anioeta tVeoWture, body weigbU, enc
the latest years.   Lt.tat perioda refer in prinoiple to             di.tribution by age and sex of natonal populations.
Uh. Years 1956-60 fir 1966-70; the lataet ysear  is prin-        &L Protein atandards (rq.qarwent.) for all enutriea a. estab-
cipl; L. 1960 and.197(1.                                             liahad by USDA &aon-la Reseea,h So-vice provide, for aeniu
I The Per Cepita OIN? .ti..te Ia at ecarket prInces for               cilowann  of 60 grwwa of total protein per day, md 20 gras    of
yraza chAr, than i'80,calculated by the .am   oonveralon          an.Ima and pulse protein, of which 10 gross should be ani.mAl
technique as the 1972 World Dank Atlas.                          protein.   Thea. standards &re eamwhAt lImr than these of 75
Average nasher of daughtrer per woman of reproduotive              gr~m  of total poten end 23 gacew of animal protein &a. an
age.                                                             avrage for the word,* proposed by FAD in the INYA. ibrld Food
~jPopulation growth rotas ar   for t-he decodea adnshg in           Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                                L Soone atadies haey auUeetad that wade death raes. of children
Ratio of populatIon uder 15 and 65 and ovar to populia.            ages 1 through 4. eay be used as a first approximation indan of
Lion of ages 15-64 for age dependency ratio and to labor          ealnutrition.
fo rce of ages 15-61 for eonomi    dependency retio.          /   P metage enrolled of norresponding Ppoplation of school age
~jFAO reference atandarda reprsent Physiological re                 a  defined for sanh onatry.
quirementa for n.omal activity and health, taLking
c 1721   /b  l9!7-53i    /c  1965-70 UN estimate;   .~d I1ncluding Pengladesh;     /a  Negistered only;    I. 1973;
1960-721   11   1953-63:   a   Definition not wvetlabi;           .Lalosts1   &   Orer 5,000 inhabitanta, alsn a few amea
having urban, .harecte rietles but fewer than 5,000 population i   a    T-o,n  with a POPulation Of 5,00  and "ovr;    /   Local-
itie  of 2,5(X0    Rormere:  R  19631   a~ Including overage studenLs:      4j PAO estinste;     4a  1969;   4a   Households;
p 1967:   A    4uchbr on the regleter, not all sorking in the oiuntryi     /u  Includes ex-North Ceaon;        L   191
1~ 966-681 ~&     One through fine;     a   9686    La  Sin ,throg   ten;         Up to matriculate (10th grede'' );L   l96166,
Zs19611    4j   P-rrentage of urban dwellings      LaDtrertchousing anita;               lik  1968..691   4na  Data rIilat to
rI.,trIc lLY g-nrated, include station use and trenamisalo     loases;    Lak  Figure does not Include 1itportS by land;
'al  1~. years and -oeri   La   Inside only.
Mcci,, has heelP tseid.as an objective country hensas iLa par capita income, tn the early 1970's, is about twice
Nigeria's ,rnj-ld*per opi te in,cme, In the mld-1980's at 1971 p,ricea.       Also, Nexico'. present level of development
In e reali.Li, target rcr Nigeria through the remnainder of thln century.
83 May 2, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197    4                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (. constant 1962/63 Dricee)
US $ Kill,       %                        I   2/366-1973a        19723         191/7h
GNP at Market Prices         12607           100.0                           8.3                 7.3          9.5
Gross Domestic Investment     2654            21.1                            9.9               -6.0          8.9
Gross National Saving         2753            21.8                           -7.8                29.5        25.7
Current Account Balance        -99            -0.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         3502            27.8                          13.2                 4.4          8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         2481            19.7                          12.4                -4.o         18.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970171
Y
Value Added                          Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
U       ]iTh~  .gD Ml.                             x                    US           %
Agriculture                  3303          48                     16.8        70                    197          69
Industry                     1690          25                      3.1       13                     5h5         190
Services                     1895          27                      h.T       17                     462         161
Unallocated                                 I
Total/Average                       100.0                    24.0      100.0                  287         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(Naira Mmin)         . of GDP                 ( Natra Mln.)        % of GDP
1972/73       12/73    10.i92/71                                   1970/71-1972/73
Current Receipts     /                 1512.5         19.7          i8.4               1067.3        13-9       12.4
Current Expenditur9d                   1112.9         14-5         +134                 6632          8.6        8.1
Current Surplus                         397 5..12
Capital Expenditures                    552.7          7.2           5.3                259.2         3.4        2.3
External Assistance (net)                  29            .            .                    29
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to the sector of their normal occupation.
2/ Includes capital expenditurea for defense.



AIMLIx
Page 3 of 3
8eptember
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1969         1970       1971        1972        1973     1973A_      1
(m1ilion NaIrmoutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    667.7       984.2      1046.5      1208.5      1512.7   1353.6   2287.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             523.0       710.6       573.0       593.7       5g9.4    723.0    747.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector            327.1       478.1       592.9       757         853.6    717.7    893.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money) as % of ODP         19.6        18.3       15.0        17.1        18.5
General Price Index (1970 a 100)Y          87.8       100.0      116.1       11g.3       126 5    124.6J   1140:92
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                   13.8        16.1         2.8         6.0        .     13.1
Bank credit to Public Sector                          35.9       -19.4         0.1         2.7               3.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                         46.2        24.o        27.6        12.8        .     24.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE V971-71)
1970     1        1972    1973                                     US $Nln 
(Millions U $)         Pre1      Crude oil                       1975.1    80.3
Cocoa products                   191.8     7.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         1311     1858    1947    2219       Palm products                     10.6     1.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)     Z4       I37    -       TM         Tin                               28.7     1.2
Interest Payments (net)        -16      - 1      ...     ...      All other commodities            142.1     5.8
Workers' Remittances             -        -        -       -           Total                               100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)    447      598      725     471
Net Transfers                   63        3      -23     -53    EXTERSAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1972
Balance on Current Account    ZT7      43 
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment      251      338      337     140
Net MLT Borrowing                                                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1038.0
Disbursements                49       65      117     123      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                 35       37       32      43      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                     1UU 7                                                     1.
Capital Grants                   -        -        -      _     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-
Other Capital (net)             17       15       15      -
Other items n.e.i              179      260     _121   -598
Increase in Reserve (+)         85      178    - 52    4Y23       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           2.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
.Fuel and Related Ma-                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
terials
Imports                       31       13       14       4       Ri
of which:  Petroleum          -        -        -       -                              3)
Exports                      714     13314    1788    2800                                     IBD=      MA
of which:  Petroleum        7111    1334     1788    2800       Outstanding & Diabursed        303.4   31.0
Undisbureed                    776      4 1
RATF OI rYCHANGE                                                  Outstanding inz. Undaabursed 581.0 0    51
Thrtoh Oac 19 1971     since Dec. 20.191 Since April 1r974
US   S 1.00 - NO 71            loating Cntral rate)
N 1.00 --5 $i.140     N 1.00 * US $1.52 US$ 1.00 - NO-62 - N 1.00 - TM * fi 2
Note: All conversiona to donlars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Money and quai money are taken as period erdong March 1970, March 1971 to March 1974 to match
with GDP which are presented in fiscal year ending Maroh 31.
g/ Index of Consumer Prices.
3/ Average January - September.
W Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



ANNX II
THE 3TATIS GF BANK GROUP CG WI1S3 IN NItaR
A. STATD(DT QF 3DM   GROUP     ATIT    IN NIGEEXA
(As at April 30, 1975)2/
US$ oil-ion
Loan or Credit
NIhber         Tear      Borrower              Purpose              ___ _L_a_t
Nine loam and one credit fully disbursed                              201.5    15.5
72           1965      Nigeria               Education                    20.0        3.8
L27            1965     Nigeria               Roads                lh.5                 2.5
694            1970     Nigeria               Tramsport            25.0                 3.6
705            1970     Industrial Dev. bc.  Dev. Fin. Co.         10.0                3.8
76h            1971     Nigeria               Coooa Dev.            7.2                3.2
81h            1972     Nigeria               Education II         17.3                16.9
838            1972     Nigeria              Roads V               26.3                17.7
807            1972     NEPA                  Power                76.0                L3.8
922            1973     HPA                   Ports II             55.0                5L.1
929            1973     Nigeria              Education III         5h.o                5L.0
1OL5.          1971,     Nigeria               Cocoa II             20.0               20.C
1091*           1975     Nigeria               Livestock            21.0               21.C
1092*           1975     Nigeria               Agric. Dev. Funtua   29.0                29.0
Total of which                            636.8    35.5      273.L
has been repaid                        56.9     .2
Total now outstandoing                    579.9
Aimount sold of whicn     16.5
has been repaid       13.8              2.7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA*-                        577.2    35.3
Total undisbursed                         269.3     h.1      273.L
1/ In addition to the above loans and credils, two loan  (1099-UNI ror $19.0 dllion for
Agricultural Development (Ouwau) sad 1103-LWI for 817.5 million for Rioe Development)
were signed on April 1 and 25, 1975, respectively.
* Not yet effective
Prior to exchange rate adjustmnts
B. SrATAPIr OF IIC XNINTWpVS
(An at April 30, 1975)
0t iDUSv illion
Year                                              Tvpe of Business L     e an S   ill
196h, 1967, 1970   Arews Textiles Ltd.                 Textile Mfg.           0.9     0.7      1.6
196h         Nigerian Industrial Developtant
Bank, Ltd.                          Dea. Fin. Co.                  1.4      1.4
1973         Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd.     Veg. Oil Crushing       1.6             1.6
197h          Lafiagi Sugar Estatea              Sugar                          0.1      0.1
1973         Nigerian Aluninum Extruaionr Ltd.   Aluminum Processing     1.0    0.3      1.3
Total  roass Cosaitments                                   3.5     2.5      6.0
Lose oanoellation                                      0.3              0.3
Lees sold or repaid                                    1.1     0.3      1.h
Total oomitanta now held !ay IFC                           2.1     2.3      h.4
Undiibrnsed                                                 .5      .1      .6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of h
C.   Projects in Execution
Credit 72-UNI, Education Project: US$20.0 million
Credit of March 1, 1965; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Loan 814-UNI, Second Education Project: US$17.3 million
Loan of April 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Loan 929-UNI, Third Education Project: US$54.0 million
Loan of August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The three education projects together provide for construction,
equipping, and rehabilitation of schools and for teacher training in all the
12 states of the Federation. There has been substantial improvement in the
implementation of these projects during the past six months due to the establish-
ment of effective project units at the Federal and State levels. The first
education project (72-UNI) had a late start in implementation, particularly
in the three eastern states which were affected by the civil strife between
1967 and 1970. Execution of project schools in these areas is progressing
satisfactorily now. The implementation of the second education project (814-
UNI) is about 12 months behind schedule. Design of buildings and preparation
for procurement of furniture and equipment are progressing satisfactorily.
The third education project (929-UNI) became effective on January 14, 1975.
Satisfactory progress has been made in the establishment and staffing of
various project units. It is expected that some change in project content
might be suggested by the Borrower in the light of the recently declared
policy for implementation of universal primary education in the country and
the substantial increase in costs of construction and imported equipment.
Loan 427-UNI, Western Road Project: US$14.5 million
Loan of September 26, 1965; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 694-UNI, Transport Rehabilitation: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 26, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 838-UNI, Fifth Highway Project:   US$26.3 million
Loan of June 16, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
There has been a saving of $2.5 million in Loan 427-UNI, out of
which procurement of road machinery and conduct of a photogrammatic survey
would be financed and the balance is likely to be cancelled. Construction
work and procurement under the Transport Rehabilitation Loan (694-UNI) have
proceeded satisfactorily except for procurement of some railway equipment
which has been affected by administrative delays as well as delays in delivery
schedule and to congestion in the port of Lagos. However, deliveries are
now proceeding satisfactorily and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 1
Loan 705-UNI, Nigerian Industrial Development Bank: US$10.0 million
Loan of August 28, 1970; Revised Closing Date: October 31, 1975
While the loan has been fully committed, NIDB has requested can-
cellation of the undisbursed balance and $3.7 million has been cancelled,
leaving about $110,000 in the loan account to reimburse one outstanding
commitment against a letter of credit.
Loan 764-UNI, Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million
Loan of June 23, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Loan 1045-UNI, Second Cocoa Project: US$20 million
Loan of October 11, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The first cocoa project (764-UNI) is on schedule and 35,000 acres
of high-yielding cocoa has been planted. Preparation is well in hand for
the planting of the remaining 8,500 acres under the first project, as well
as 21,500 acres under the second project (1045-UNI) during the 1975 season.
While various actions toward effectiveness of the second cocoa loan have
been taken, there has been an unexpected delay in the execution of the sub-
sidiary loan agreement between the Federal Government and the states due to
procedural problems. It is expected that this loan will become effective
within a few weeks.
Loan 847-UNI, Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million
Loan of June 30, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on the project is satisfactory. The first Kainji extension
is expected to be commissioned in September. With the completion of power
development studies, the Borrower is likely to request re-definition of the
rural electrification component of the project.
Loan 922-UNI, Second Lagos Ports Project: US$55 million
Loan of August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan became effective on October 29, 1973 and implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The contract for civil works
has been awarded and construction is expected to begin in May 1975.
Loan 1091-UNI, Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Satisfactory progress is being made for appointment of Project
Manager and senior officials for project management and the loan is expected
to become effective by Jmune 20, 1975.
Loan 1092-UNI, Funtua Agricultural Development Project: US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Closing Date July 1, 1982
Senior project staff have been appointed and the project is opera-
ti.al.   The loan is expected to become effective by June 20, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1099-UNI. Gusau Agricultural Development ProJect: US$19o0
million Loan of April 4, 1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Senior project staff have been appointed and the project
is operational. The loan is expected to become effective on August 4,
1975.
Loan 1103-UNI, Rice Development Project: US$17.5 Million Loan
of April 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Satisfactory progress is being made for appointment of
Project Manager and other senior staff. The loan is expected to
become effective on August 26, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:              US$17.0 Million
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 8 1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     Federal Government would onlend to the Western State
Government on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan.
Project Description
The project would be carried out over a nine-year investment period
1975 through 1983 and would involve: establishing a Smallholder Management
Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources to implement
the planting program; new planting/replanting 4,000 ha of smallholder oil
palm and planting 6,000 ha of nucleus oil palm estates; improving about
148 km of earth roads to facilitate all-weather collection of fresh fruit
bunches from smallholders; operating a grant/credit scheme for smallholders;
training staff and farmers at selected institutions and through in-service
courses; the construction and operation of two oil palm mills by the Western
Oil Palm Company (WOPC) to process the fruit produced by the project small-
holdings and estates; establishing a fruit collection system to be operated
by WOPC for smallholder production.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Summary of Project Costs
US$'000               Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total     Exchange %
Smallholder Program
Smallholder Field
Establishment                1,391       628    2,019          31
SMU Capital Costs                164       142      306         46
SMU Staff Costs                1,283       172    1,455          12
SMU Recurrent Costs              137        98      235          42
Road Program                     254        63      317          20
Training                          44        43        87         26
Sub-total                 3,273     1,146    4,419          26
WOPC Program
Field Establishment            3,183       901    4,084          22
Management and Overhead
Estates                      3,879     1,508    5,387          28
NIJAL Management Fee             547        -        547          -
Mill Investment                2,047     3,218     5,265         61
Fruit Collection Investment       74       182       256         71
Sub-total                 9,730     5,809   15,539          37
Total before con-
tingencies             13,003     6,955   19,958         35
Physical Contingencies           710       383    1,093          35
Price Contingencies            8,431     4,540   12,971          35
Total,                   22,144    11,878   34,022          35
Financing Plan
IBRD     State     Farmer      Total
(US$ million)
Smallholder Program
Field Establishment        1.2      0.4        0.4        2.0
SMU                        1.0      1.4         -         2.4
WOPC Program               7.7      7.7         -        15.4
Unallocated                7.1      6.9        0.2       14.2
Total                17.0     16.4        0.6      34.0
50%      49%         1%       100%



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Annual        Cumulative
------US$ Million-------
FY 75/76              1.55            1.55
FY 77                 1.15            2.70
FY 78                 1.95            4.65
FY 79                 3.00            7.65
FY 80                 2.65           10.30
FY 81                 1.60           11.90
FY 82                 1.25           13.15
FY 83                 2.05           15.20
FY 84                 1.80           17.00
Procurement
Procurement of all items where orders or contracts had a value of
more than US$25,000 through international competitive bidding (ICB), domes-
tically manufactured goods being allowed a 15 percent preference or the
applicable import duties whichever is lower and domestic civil works con-
tractors a 7 1/2 percent preference in bid evaluation. Contracts under
US$25,000 and contracts for civil works, office equipment, and road con-
struction not large enough to attract foreign bidders to be awarded under
locally advertised bidding. A large part of project costs would be for
labor, salaries, training and operating expenses and therefore not suitable
for ICB. Remainder of project cost would be for contingencies.
Provision has been made under the project for the engagement of
Consultants for 6 man-months to assist in the establishment of mechanized
accounts and design of oil palm mills.
Rate of Return
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
estimated at 18.9 percent for the smallholder component and 18.7 percent
for the estate component. The economic rate of return for the whole pro-
ject 18.8 percent.
Appraisal Report
Report No. 496a-UNI dated March28, 1975.



0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~0*
,W-\,~~~~~~~~~~~~N /DEAY
6o~~5  ~ ~ {O1iIRa~ . -...L--- -.VISO:6 RWIS
W  ES  T E R  N   S T A T E    O I L   P A L M   P R O J E C  T    PALM EOTA      OI,,.gb-
_        I                                               e  _                     \     <                                                   S          L  ;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP
A,,gi
0~ ~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~                                               *1'                                       PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
*              ~~~~~PROJECT ESTATES
V                       ~~~~~~~~~POSSIBLE ESTATE AREAS NOT SURVEYED
"P-'sow                                                      OGB                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ESTATES
1.500 ft.  -'j                                                        EXISTING ESTATES RECENTLY ESTABLISHED
GEKEBO                         IFARM SETTLEMENT
I,                              U    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED MAILL SITE
'pw                                                                                                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C MILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-   PROJECT ROADS, PAVED
EJIGBO                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS, EARTH
-   EXISTING MAIN ROADS
EXISTING SECONDARY ROADS
.DIVISION BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES
~~~ ~~FOREST RESERVES
)             ,.- ~~~~WAIERWAYS FOR DEEP GOING BARGES
WESTERN STATE OIL PALM PROJECTNIG 
0                                                                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
0015w                    2   0   2 .       8  tO  12  1.  a                                                                                                                          ... 
KILOMETE..                                                                                                 N    I G'E R'I'A'~~~~~~~~~~~~sIm0Um



