CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1192 UNI
Project Agreement
(Western State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
DATED SEPTEMBER 22, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1192 UNI
Project Agreement
(Western State Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
DATED SEPTEMBER 22, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called State).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the State agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the State, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to the State on the terms and conditions therein
set forth;
WHEREAS by a loan agreement to be entered into between the State and
the Western Oil Palm  Company, a company to be established by the State
(hereinafter called WOPC), part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available by the State to WOPC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project
through WOPC, Parts A, B(ii), F and G of the Project through SMU and Part
B(i) of the Project through its Ministry of Works and Transport, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Project Agreement, the State shall relend an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand dollars ($7,700,000), or such
other amount as shall be allocated to Category III under Schedule I to the Loan
Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
under Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement, to WOPC, under a loanl agreement
to be entered into between the State and WOPC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank. The State Loan shall be made at an interest
rate not less than the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.06 of
the Loan Agreement and with an amortization period of 20 years with 9 years
of grace.
(c)   The State shall lend to WOPC, under the State Loan Agreement, an
additional amount equal to the amount relent by the State to WOPC under Section
2.01(b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions applicable to the State
Loan.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SMU in establishing a system of mechanized
accounts for credit and other operations in respect of smallholders, under the
Project, the State shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The State undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,


﻿5
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
State to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the State shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The State shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The State: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The State shal! enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment records and documents
relevant to the Project.
Section 2.06. The State shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan Agreement and shall exercise its
rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the
State and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the State shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the State Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank:
(i)         exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State Loan
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan; and


﻿6
(ii)        furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   The State shall promptly inform   the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the performance by the State of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the State
Loan Agreement or the performance by WOPC of its obligations under the State
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. In the event the State shall propose participation of WSFU
in channelling grants and sub-loans to smallholders, under the Project, the State
shall arrange such participation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09. As and when the works specified in Part B of the Project
are completed, the State shall cause its Ministry of Works and Transport to maintain
the roads included in said Part in accordance with appropriate engineering practices,
and shall provide, as needed, the funds, equipment, labor and other resources and
facilities required for this purpose.
Section 2.10. (a) The State shall promptly establish, and thereafter maintain,
the Smallholder Management Unit to be responsible for the execution of Parts
A. B(ii), F and G of the Project, in a form and with powers, responsibilities,
organization, resources, financial structure and policies satisfactory to the Bank
and the State.
(b)   The State shall cause SMU to be adequately staffed at all times, and
shall appoint duly qualified and competent persons, acceptable to the Bank, to
senior management positions of SMU, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c)   The State shall, not later than ninety days from the Effective Date
or such other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, establish, and thereafter maintain,
a committee with powers, functions and membership satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.1 1. (a) The State shall establish, and thereafter maintain, a limited
liability company as a subsidiary of AIC to be responsible for the execution of
Parts C, D and E of the Project, with powers, responsibilities, organization,
resources, financial structure and policies (including a schedule for the State's
contribution in the form of equity to cover WOPC's working capital requirements
until the completion of the Project) as shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the
State.


﻿7
(b)   The State shall cause WOPC to follow the policies and procedures set
forth in Schedules I and 2 to this Agreement in the carrying out of Parts C,
D and E of the Project.
Section 2.12. Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the State shall establish or cause to be established, and
thereafter maintain with adequate funds, a bank account (hereinafter called SMU
Account) to be used exclusively to make payments for the costs of goods and
services required on the part of SMU to carry out Parts A, B(ii), F and G of
the Project. The State shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the relevant bank, to enable SMU, whenever necessary, to make withdrawals from
SMU Account up to amounts the State shall allocate for the Project in its annual
budget prepared after taking into account SMU's budget and contribution of the
State toward the cost of the Project estimated in the light of SMU's budget and
working capital requirements.
Section 2.13. The State shall cause SMU to prepare SMU's annual budgets,
in form satisfactory to the State and the Bank, and its monthly cash flow statements
and shall authorize SMU to operate, unless otherwise instructed in writing by the
Chairman of the Steering Committee, on the basis of such statements.
Section 2.14. The State covenants that it will promptly reimburse WOPC
for any loss suffered by it as a result of smallholders failing to deliver their produce
to the palm oil mills under the Project up to annual targets agreed between SMU
and WOPC.
Section 2.15. Except as the Borrower, the Bank and the State shall otherwise
agree, the operational policies and procedures for the carrying out of Parts A,
B, F and G of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.16. The State shall, not later than January 1, 1980, or such other
date as shall be agreed by the Bank, establish, and thereafter maintain, a Committee,
comprising representatives of its ministries responsible for Finance and Agriculture,
of WOPC, SMU, Western State Marketing Board, Nigerian Produce Marketing
Company and smallholders, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, and a senior
representative of AIC to establish, from time to time, a pricing formula to be
used by WOPC when purchasing smallholders' fresh fruit bunches, the said formula
to be determined in accordance with principles acceptable to the Bank.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The State shall cause SMU to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
its operations and financial condition. The said records shall show, under a separate
head, all revolving funds comprising amounts disbursed to smallholders and
outstanding, amounts of sub-loans repaid, and interest and other charges paid or
payable.
Section 3.02. The State shall cause SMU to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the State; (ii) furnish to the Borrower, the Bank and the State as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Borrower,
the Bank and the State such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of SMU and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
the State thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify the State of this event.


﻿*                                 9
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the State:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Western State
Ibadan, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Ibadan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf


﻿10
of the State may be taken or executed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Finance or such other person or persons as the Military Governor of the State
shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of the State take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
By is/ Dr. A. Ijose
Authorized Representative


﻿*                                  11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Bidders for the works included in Part E of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
(ii)        The palm oil mills included in the Project shall be procured under
single responsibility contract or contracts which will require the
contractor to: (a) supply the plant and equipment, install said
plant and equipment and construct the civil works related
thereto, in accordance with the designs and specifications
prepared by consultants employed by WOPC pursuant to Clause
10 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) operate the mill or
mills for a period of up to 12 months; and (c) train the local
engineering staff in the operation and maintenance of the said
mill or mills.
3.    (i)         International competition will not be required for civil works
included in Parts B and C of the Project. Invitations to bid for
civil works included in Parts B(ii) and (C) of the Project and
for office equipment need not be advertised in publications
outside Nigeria.
(ii)        Contracts for goods specified in Part E hereof estimated to cost
less than $25,000 and contracts for office equipment shall not
be subject to international competition and shall be procured
after inviting quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.    Appropriate Procurement Agency
Wherever used in this Schedule "appropriate procurement agency" means,
with respect to the procurement of goods and services for the following Parts of
the Project: (i) Parts A, B(ii), F and G, the SMU and (ii) Parts C, D and E, the
WOPC.


﻿12
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufactures
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the appropriate procurement agency of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
appropriate procurement agency and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Nigeria equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿13
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered iu such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award:
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Categories II
and III (excluding palm oil mills) of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Loan
Agreement, the appropriate procurement agency may grant a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference.
The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
(b)   After bids have been received an    reviewed by the appropriate
procurement agency, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


﻿14
D.    Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works included in Part B(i) of the Project shall be carried out on force
account.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The appropriate procurement agency shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference
under Part C. 1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the appropriate
procurement agency to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the appropriate procurement agency shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, fertilizers, insecticides, polybags,
tools, wire-netting and other agricultural inputs estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or more and the single responsibility contract or contracts for the
palm oil mills in Category III of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the appropriate procurement agency shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospecive bidders.
(b)   Promptly    after  the  bids have   been   received, the   appropriate
procurement agency shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After   bids have   been   received  and  evaluated, the appropriate
procurement agency shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient


﻿15
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendation for iward and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the appropriate procurement agency and/or the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the appropriate procurement
agency shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the appropriate procurement agency and/or the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   In the event the appropriate procurement agency shall intend to apply the
preference referred to in Part C of this Schedule, it shall follow the procedures
set forth in sub-paragraphs 2(a) through (e) of this Part with respect to all contracts
for civil works included in Categories 1I and III of the table set forth in Schedule
I to the Loan Agreement.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Operational Policies for Parts C, D
and E of the Project
Clause 1
WOPC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate business and financial practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary in the conduct
of its business or the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the Project.
Clause 2
WOPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the State Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, WOPC shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the State Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Clause 3
WOPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Clause 4
WOPC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Clause 5
WOPC shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank: (b) furnish
to the Borrower and the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial


﻿17
statements for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower or the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of WOPC and the
audit thereof as the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Clause 6
WOPC shall: (a) maintain records adequate to record the progress of Parts
C, D and E of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the State Loan, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (b) without limitation upon the provisions of Clause
9 hereof, enable the Bank's representatives to examine the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (c) furnish to the
Bank and the Borrower all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Parts C, D and E of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the State Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Clause 7
WOPC shall insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the State Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by WOPC to replace or repair such goods.
Clause 8
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, WOPC shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the State Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Clause 9
WOPC shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine all
properties, equipment and any records and documents relevant to the Project.
Clause 10
In order to assist WOPC in preparing the designs and specifications tor
purposes of procurements of facilities included in Part E of the Project, WOPC


﻿18
shall employ consultants whose quatications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the State.
Clause 11
WOPC shall cause the palm oil mills under Part E of the Project to purchase
fresh fruit bunches from smallholders participating in the Project at prices fixed
from time to time by WOPC on the basis of the pricing formula determined by
the Price Policy Committee pursuant to Section 2.16 of this Agreement.
Clause 12
WOPC shall employ a General Manager, Estate Managers, an Oil Mill Engineer,
a Chief Accountant and a Company Secretary whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the
State.
Clause 13
WOPC shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision,
inter alia, of the services of experts to fill the positions specified in Clause 12
hereof and of assistance to WOPC in the implementation of Parts C, D and E
of the Project.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Operational Policies for Parts A, B,
F and G of the Project
1.    Each year applications for new planting and/or replanting shall be invited
through local newspapers, radio and other media for specific zones within the
Project area. All applications for grants or loans shall be appraised by SMU. SMU
shall check the creditworthiness of the smallholder with the cooperative society
or WSFU (if applicable). Applications shall be submitted for approval to the Planting
Authorization Committee, to be constituted by SMU, comprising the Manager of
SMU (as Chairman), the Controller of Field Operations and the Controller of
Finance and a representative of the relevant cooperative society or WSFU (if
applicable).
2.    All old oil palm trees will be felled before new planting and/or replanting,
and at no time, will intercropping be allowed. Prior to approving an application
the smallholding will be inspected by SMU staff and if Eupatorium infestation
is found over more than 30% of the area to which the application refers, all weeds
will be cleared before said application is approved.
3.    SMU staff shall provide technical supervision and advice to smallholders.
4.    Grants or Sub-loans shall be made for the planting/replanting of oil palm
to smallholders on between 1 ha. to 10 ha.
5.    Grants or Sub-loans shall be made only to smallholders, who are engaged
in farming and who are members of a cooperative society or of WSFU (if
applicable).
6.    All Sub-loans shall be made pursuant to a sub-loan agreement or agreements,
as appropriate, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, between the
smallholder, the relevant cooperative society or of WSFU (if applicable) and SMU.
7.    Grants in kind shall be made in an amount equal to N-1 70 per ha. and
sub-loans, in cash, shall be made in an amount equal to N-100 per ha. Sub-loans
shall bear interest at the rate of 9-1/2% per cent per annum and shall be repayable
within 13 years including 7 years of grace during ihich interest shall be capitalized.
Sub-loans shall be repaid in equal monthly installments. The aforesaid amounts
of sub-loans and grants are based on prices prevailing at the time of this Agreement
and shall be adjusted from time to time in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank. The smallholder's contribution shall be about N-60 per ha. and


﻿2)0
shall normally take the form of labor, tools and implements. Grants to smallholders
shall take the form of disbursements in kind by SMU to smallholders participating
in the Project of seeds, planting materials, fertilizers, wire-netting and other
agricultural inputs recommended by SMU.
8.    The Sub-loan Agreement shall, inter alia, (a) require the smallholder to sell
his produce from planting or replanting under the Project to the nearest palm
oil mill under the Project: and (b) provide that (i) the palm oil mills shall pay
the proceeds of the sale of smallholder's produce to SMU; (ii) SMU shall deduct
from such proceeds the amount of the sub-loan payable and any charges thereon
and shall transfer the balance to the cooperative society or WSFU (if applicable)
and (iii) the said cooperative society or WSFU (if applicable) shall deduct from
amounts so received the service and other charges payable to it prior to making
payment to the smallholder.


