CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 394 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 13, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 394 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 13, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also     requested  the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred to as the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan),
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the agreement referred to in Section (B) of this clause; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank.";
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as such terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
(e)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds (as
such terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the
Development Credit Agreement, or under any other loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, or under any bond issued pursuant to any such
agreement, or under any other development credit agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, and such default shall contini. for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by tho Bank to the
Borrower, or the Association to the Borrower, as the case may be."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and t' following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Bonds" means the bonds provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement, 151 KO, dated
June 4, 1969, between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)   "Project Unit" means the unit established in the Borrower's Ministry
of Education and referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(g)   "OSROK" means the Office of Supply of the Borrower.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project (other than the services of consultants and other
than goods not to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, for which the
usual government procurement procedures of the Borrower modified by those set
forth in Section A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall apply) shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with,
and subject to. the provisions set forth in Sections B and C of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.


﻿6
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable   on  each  June 15   and  December 15
commencing June 15, 1983, and ending December 15, 2022, each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1992 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of su-h principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4,02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project,
maintain and operate the Project Unit established under Section 4.01(d) of the
Prior Credit Agreement with such powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and
resources as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall within six months of the date of this Agreement
appoint at least three architects, five engineers and technical and agricultural
education specialists trained under Part F of the Project described in Schedule
2 of the Prior Credit Agreement to the Project Unit.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
suitably qualified and experienced contractors and architects.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿7
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06 (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall provide, not later than January 1,
1975, all the agricultural high schools included in the Project with adequate land
for farming.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall commence (i) not later than March 1, 1974,
the conversion of the technical and agricultural higher schools included in the
Project into two-year post-secondary institutions, and (ii) not later than March 1,
1975, the conversion of the fishery higher schools included in the Project into
two-year post-secondary institutions with an additional one-year apprenticeship
training, for students directly from general high schools enrolling in the deck and
engineer officers' courses.


﻿8
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not later than two years from the date
of this Agreement, inform the Association of its proposals for establishing in the
universities, included in the Project, facilities for the common use of certain more
expensive items of equipment for the skill training of the students enrolled in
technical teacher training programs in the colleges of education included in the
Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than two years from the date
of this Agreement, inform the Association of the outcome of (i) the review to
be undertaken by the Borrower of the content of curricula in the junior teacher
colleges included in the Project and its application to instruct teachers at primary
levels in modern methods, such as the use of audio-visual methods and programmed
learning, and to prepare such teachers for their wider responsibilites in community
development, and (ii) the reorganization to be undertaken by the Borrower of
practice teaching in such junior teacher colleges so that each trainee would have
at least four weeks of actual teaching.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, within one year of the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association, submit to the Association for review a staff development plan
for the universities included in the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, within nine months of the date of this
Agreement or such oth'er period as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association, (i) appoint for the purposes of the Project six additional
procurement specialists to the foreign procurement section of OSROK; and (ii)
submit to the Association for comment a schedule for the implementation of the
Project which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower's Ministry of Education
and OSROK.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Proi-+ of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out ine Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than one year from the date
of this Agreement, inform the Association of its proposals (i) to allow students


﻿9
to transfer into teacher education at colleges of education from other colleges;
(ii) to organize special courses in pedagogy for degree graduates of colleges other
than colleges of education entering the teaching profession; and (iii) to grant such
graduates the same status as the graduates of the colleges of education.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be operated, the
educational institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with
appropriate administrative and educational policies and practices and with due
regard to economy.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified administrators and teachers in adequate numbers to staff the educational
institutions included in the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain or cause to be
maintained the buildings, furnitur: and equipment of the educational institutions
included in the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof in accordance with appropriate technical and administrative
practices; and (ii) provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿10
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,


﻿11
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendment of Prior Credit Agreement
Section 8.01. For the purposes of the Prior Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(d)
of the said agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(d) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
establish in the Borrower's Ministry of Education a special unit headed
by a Project Director satisfactory to the Association, who shall be
responsible for the proper execution and supervision of the Project.
Such unit shall have such powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and
resources as are set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement (Second Education Project) between the Borrower and the
Association dated June 13, 1973."
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions procedent
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement other than the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 9.02. The date September 11, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board of the Borrower, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Dong-Jo Kim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Catego ry                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Instructional                  37,000,000
Equipment
(a)   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)   manufactured                                 100% of local
locally                                      expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  imported and                                  70% of total
procured                                     expenditures
locally                                      (ex-warehouse or
ex-store)
11.   Specialists'                     400,000           100% of foreign
Services and                                       expenditures
Fellowships
111.  Unallocated                    5,600,000
TOTAL              43,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿15
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Bcrrower or fcr goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds


﻿16
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Association and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as in the
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of
the proceeds of the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I
(c) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to promote the Borrower's educational objectives
by assisting in an investment program aimed at (i) improving technical and
agricultural high schools; (ii) expanding and improving higher schools and junior
colleges for technical, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; (iii) strengthening
university education in the fields of engineering, natural sciences, merchant marine
and agriculture; (iv) expanding and improving teacher education; and (v) completing
the programming of planned reforms in the fields of health and management
education.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
The site development for, and the construction, improvement of existing
facilities, furnishing and equipping of:
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOLS
Location                                Province
BUSAN                                   BUSAN
CHANGRYEONG                             GYEONG NAM
CHEONAN                                 CHUNG NAM
CHEONGNYANG                             SEOUL
CHUNCHEON                               GANG WEON
DAEGU                                   GYEONG BUG
GYEONGNAM                               BUSAN
GWANGJU                                 JEON NAM
HANRIM                                  JE JU
INCHEON                                 GYEONG GI
IRI                                     JEON BUG
JEONJU                                  JEON BUG
POHANG                                  GYEONG BUG
SAMCHEONPO                              GYEONG NAM
SEONGDONG                               SEOUL
SEONJI                                  GYEONG BUG
SEOUL                                   SEOUL
YEONMUDAE                               CHUNG NAM


﻿18
Location                  Province
AGRICULTURAL HIGH SCHOOLS
ANDONG                    GYEONG BUG
CHANGRYEONG               GYEONG NAM
CHEONGJU                  CHUNG BUG
GANGJIN                   JEON NAM
GIMJE                     JEON BUG
ICHEON                    GYEONG GI
HONGCHEON                 GANG WEON
JANGSEONG                 GANG WEON
NAMWEON                   JEON BUG
SACHEON                   GYEONG NAM
SEOGWI                    JE JU
SEONGJU                   "YEONG BUG
SEOSAN                    CHUNG NAM
YUSEONG                   CHUNG NAM
TECHNICAL HIGHER SCHOOL
SAMCHEONG                 GANG WEON
AGRICULTURAL HIGHER SCHOOLS
ANSEONG                   GYEONG GI
MILYANG                   GYEONG NAM
FISHER Y HIGHER SCHOOLS
GUNSAN                    JEON BUG
TONG YEONG                GYEONG NAM
YEOSU                     JEON NAM
SCHOOLS OF NURSING
CHUNCHEON                 GANG WEON
CHEONGJU                  CHUNG BUG
JEONJU                    JEON BUG
JINJU                     GYEONG NAM


﻿19
Location                  Province
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING
CHUNG NAM N.U.            CHUNG NAM
JEON BUG N.U.             JEON BUG
JEON NAM N.U.             JEON NAM
COLLEGES OF NATURAL SCIENCE
CHUNG NAM N.U.            GYEONG NAM
JEON BUG N.U.             JEON BUG
JUNIOR TEACHER COLLEGES
GONGJU T.C.               CHUNG NAM
COLLEGES OF EDUCATION
BUSAN N.U.                BUSAN
CHUNG BUG N.U.            CHUNG BUG
CHUNG NAM N.U.            CHUNG NAM
GANG WEON N.C.            GANG WEON
GONGJU N.T.C.             CHUNG NAM
GYEONG BUG N.U.           GYEONG BUG
GYEONG SANG N.U.          BUSAN
JEJU N.C.                 JE JU
JEON BUG N.U.             JEON BUG
JEON NAM N.U.             JEON NAM
Part B
Improvement of the existing facilities and equipping of:
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING
BUSAN NATIONAL UNIV.      BUSAN
GYEONG BUG N.U.           GYEONG BUG
INHA UNIVERSITY           GYEONG GI
KOREA UNIVERSITY          SEOUL
YONSEI UNIVERSITY         SEOUL


﻿20
Location                   Province
COLLEGES OF NATURAL SCIENCE
BUSAN N.U.                 BUSAN
GYEONG BUG N.U.            GYEONG BUG
INHA U.                    GYEONG GI
JEON NAM N.U.              JEON NAM
KOREA U.                   SEOUL
YONSEI U.                  SEOUL
COLLEGES OF AGRICULTURE
GYEONG-SANG N.U.           GYEONG BUG
JEON BUG N.U.              JEON BUG
JUNIOR TEACHER COLLEGES
BUSAN T.C.                 BUSAN
CHEONGJU T.C.              CHUNG BUG
CHUNCHEON T.C.             GANG WEON
DAEGU T.C.                 GYEONG BUG
INCHON T.C.                GYEONG GI
JEONJU T.C.                JEON BUG
JINJU T.C.                 GYEONG NAM
MOGPO T.C.                 JEON NAM
SEOUL T.C.                 SEOUL
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
EWHA W.U.                  SEOUL
Part C
The purchase and installation of furniture and technical equipment for:
COLLEGE OF NATURAL SCIENCE
SEOUL N.U.                 SEOUL
COLLEGE OF MERCHANT MARINE
HANGUG                     BUSAN


﻿21
Location                             Province
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
SEOUL N.U.                           GYEONG GI
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
SEOUL N.U.                           SEOUL
Part D
(i)        Making a study of health education,
(ii)       making a study of management education, and
(iii)      preparing and carrying out a plan for staff development, with
the assistance of specialist's services and fellowships.
The construction, furnishing and equipping aspects of the Project are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1976, and the making of studies by
specialists and the preparing and carrying out of staff development by
September 30, 1976.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works and Furniture
1.    The civil works and furniture included in the Project shall be grouped to
form appropriate bid packages, where practicable, and tender procedures shall be
the usual governmental competitive bidding procedures modified as follows:
(a)   Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder determined
in accordance with procedures similar to those set forth in Section 4.7 of the
said Guidelines, after comparison of all responsive bids, without reference to the
estimated cost of the contract except in the circumstances referred to under Section
4.09 of said Guidelines.
(b)   All bidders shall be required to prequalify.
B.    Contracts for Equipment
1.    Equipment items included in the Project shall be grouped so as to permit
such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
2.    Before inviting bids the Borrower shall forward to the Association for its
approval:
(a)   lists of all equipment items required for the Project, incorporating
specifications, estimated unit and total prices for each item, coding to identify
institutions and locations for which items are required, and indicating the grouping
of items proposed in order to permit bulk procurement, as shall be consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices. The lists shall, as far as
practicable, conform with the master lists of equipment approved for the high
and higher schools included in the education project financed under the Prior Credit
Agreement; and
(b)   a description of the advertising procedures proposed for obtaining bids
on an international basis, together with draft bid invitations, draft bid documents
and draft contracts.
3.    Modifications to    the equipment lists (paragraph     B.2(a) above) made
subsequent to the Association's approval which do not exceed the equivalent of


﻿23
US$1,000 for any one item or in aggregate 10% of the total proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to equipment and which are in accordance with appropriate
educational practices, may be made without the prior approval of the Association.
All other amendments of the lists should be submitted to the Association for
approval.
4.    Financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan will be limited
to those items of equipment specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph
B.2(a) above and identified in contract documents by the same codes and numbers
as in the lists.
5.    After bids have been received and evaulated:
(a)   in the case of any contract of $25,000 or higher value, or one
involving an increase of 20% or more above the original estimate submitted in
accordance with paragraph B.2(a) above, or where it is proposed to award a contract
to other than the lowest bidder, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's approval
before making an award,. and to this end shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a summary and analysis of the bids received, together
with justification (with due regard to conformity with specifications and to price)
for the proposed award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
whether it has any objections to the intended award and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have; and
(b)   in all other cases, the Borrower may defer submission of bid analyses
and Justifications to the Association until after contracts have been awarded.
6.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if it is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and DA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with
the provisions of this Schedule, or if its tenrms and conditions shall, without the
Association': concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked,
no expendaures thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan.
7.    As soon as a contract has been awarded and before the submission of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall
send a certified copy thereof to the Association and, in cases where information
on bids has not previously been so communicated, the Borrower shall at the same
time also send a summary analysis of the bids received and a justification for the
award decision, together with a certificate signed by the Project Director that the
gocds covered by the lowest evaluated bid and the contract awarded conform in
specification and quantity to the list approved by the Association.


﻿24
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
8.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids referred to in paragraph
B of this Schedule, customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on locally produced goods, shall be excluded, except
to the extent hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price
for locally produced goods or the ex-warehouse or the ex-store price, as the case
may be, for goods previously imported and supplied from the territories of the
Borrower. The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditure
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be taken into account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7
of the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
9,    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the territories of the Borrower if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the territories of the Borrower of not less than 20%
of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower or goods previously imported and
supplied from the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
10.   For goods included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule I to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by the
Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding
to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic
Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the
smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii)
15,5 of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
11.   If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿25
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                 Preference
I.               All Preferred Domestic Bids and              None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,          Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all          Preference
Foreign Bids;                                Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,         None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
III.             If lowest evaluated bid under Stage          None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage 1, all Foreign Bids only
12.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit will be responsible for the financial and administrative
control of the Project and its proper execution, including inter alia:
(a)   coordination among the Borrower's departments or agencies concerned
with the Project;
(b)   liaison with the Association;
(c)   preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule, agreed with
OSROK, for setting down the planned timetable for coordinating activities and
responsibilities on which the carrying out of the Project will be based;
(d)   briefing, coordination, and supervision of the local consultant architects
retained by the Borrower for the physical development of the Project, including
establishing the terms of reference for the design and supervision of the Project
items financed under the Project, administering their agreements and reviewing and
approving their work;
(e)   preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(f)   taking, in collaboration with OSROK, all necessary steps to assure
bidding according to the usual governmental procedures for civil works and for
the procurement of furniture as modified by Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and
to assure international competitive bidding for instructional equipment, including
the preparation of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and
the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(g)   supervision of construction and procurement and supervision and
coordination of installation procedures for furniture and equipment and regular
inspection of construction work;
(h)   coordination and supervision of the studies on health and management
education included in Part D of the Project;
(i)   organization, coordination and control of the fellowship program
included in Part D of the Project;


﻿S27
(j)   maintenance of records, including financial records, and the furnishing
of information under Section 3.05(b) of this Agreement during the carrying out
of the Project;
(k)   preparation of applications for withdrawal from   the Credit and Loan
Accounts; and
(1)   evaluation of progress in implementing the Project and the preparation
and presentation of regular reports to the Association.
2.    The Project Unit shall consist of a Project Director, a full-time Assistant
Project Director, a Chief Project Architect, three Project Architects, five Project
Engineers, a Chief Procurement Officer, ten Procurement Specialists and a Specialist
Advisory Committee.
3.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Director, the
Assistant Project Director and Specialist Advisory Committee shall be respectively
as follows:
(a)   Project Director: overall guidance, supervision and execution of the
Project including all such arrangements with the Borrower's ministries and agencies
as shall be necessary for Project implementation;
(b)   Assistant Project Director: assistance in overall guidance, supervision
and execution of the Project and operation, coordination and supervision of the
Project Unit; and
(c)   Specialist Advisory Committee: guidance, coordination and supervision
of the preparation of equipment lists for the Universities.


