Document of
The World Bank
FOLR OFFICIAL USE QLNLY
Report No. 5482-TU
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 18, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This doeument bas * rsicted distuibti- anmd may be wed by reipients ody in the perfornuce of
their offici dudes. its ontents my not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bmk duthorizton.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Currency Equivalents
US$1     = 420 Turkish Lira (TL) (December 1984)
100 TL   = US$0.238
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY
CNCM:     Computer Numerically Controlled Machines
DEAME:    Directorate of Educational Aids, Materials and Equipment
DIEBS:    Directorate of Investment, Establishment and Building Services
DTVE:     Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education
EFRTC:    Education, Film, Radio and Television Center
ESEPC:    Educational Science Equipment Production Center
ICB:      International Competitive Bidding
IVTSM:    Industrial and Vocational Training Sector Memorandum
LCB:      Local Competitive Bidding
METEP:    Mesleki ve Tekr.ik Egitim Projesi (Vocational and Technical
Education Project)
MIT:      Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOE:      Milli Egitim Genclik ve Spor Bakanligi (Ministry of Education)
MOL:      Ministry of Labor
MPWH:     Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NBE:      National Board of Education
PIU:      Project Implementation Unit
PPAR:     Project Performance Auidit Report
SAC:      School Advisory Committee
SEE:      State Economic Enterprise
SEGEM:    Industrial Training and Development Center
SIDO:     SmaLl Scale Industry Development Organization
SIB:      State Investment Bank
SIS:      State Institute of Statistics
SPO:      State Planning Organization
TA:       Technical Assistance
TAC:      Trade Advisory Committee
TEK:      Turkiye Electrik Kurunu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TSKB:     Industrial Development Bank of Turkey
TTC:      Technician Training Center
TTTC:     Technical Teacher Training College
UND?:     United Nations Development Program
UNIDO:    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
YoK:      Council for Higher Education



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
(1983)
Country Data
Per-Capita GNP                                          US$1,230
Total population                                        48.0 million.
Population growth rate                                  2.21 p.a.
Total labor force                                       20.7 million
Literacy rate (% of adults) (1980)
Men                                                961
Women                                              51%
Total                                              731
School Enrollment and Expenditure Data
Female Enroll-
ment as X of
Total        Total Enrollment         Total
Enrollments 1/  as Z of Age Group    Enrollment
* '000)
Level and Age Group
Primary (grades 1-5,
ages 7-11)                    6,517                 110               47
Lower secondary (grades 6-8,
ages 12-14)                   1,518                  45               35
Total secondary (grades 9-11,
ages 15-17)                     828                  26              .35
General                         500                  10               42
Vocational and industrial       328                  10               25
Higher education (grades 12+,
ages 18+)                       322                   8               34
Public Expenditure on Education and Training
Central government eapenditures on education
as percentage of total governme-t expenditures 1/                           16.2%
Central government expenditures on education
as percentage of GNP                                                         3.3%
Central government capital expenditures on education
as percentage of all capital expenditures 1/                                12.8%
Central government recurrent expenditures on education
as percentage of all recurrent expenditures 1/                              17.0%
1/ Including expenditure on SEEs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Turkey
Amount:            USt57.7 million
Terms:             Seventeen years, including four years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project
Description:       The proposed project supports the Government's efforts to
improve industrial productivity and to increase the supply
and quality of skilled manpower. The project would provide
equipment and refurbishment for 39 secondary-level
industrial schools. Technical assistance would be included
for curriculum and program development, overseas fellowship
training and special studies.
Benefits and
Risks;             The proposed project would help meet the demand for skilled
workers and junior technicians by producing some 2,500
additional graduates annually from 1991. It would increase
access to training for low income-level groups in outlying
provinces and is expected to result in an increase in the
enrollment of women in the industrial schools system. It
would also strengthen the management and planning capacity
of the MOE and would help develop appropriate curricula and
new industrial training programs in the industrial
schools. There are no significant risks attached to the
project.



-ii-
US$ Million
Estimated Proiect Costs:                          Local        Foreign      Total
Industrial Schools Facilities                      6.36          38.91      45.27
Curriculum and Program Development                 0.25           2.64       2.89
Textbook Translation & Production                   2.11          1.13       3.24
Special Studies                                    0.04           0.20       0.24
Incremental Recurrent Costs                        2.00           -          2.00
Total Base Costs                                  10.76          42.88      53.64
Physical Contingencies                           1.07           4.29       5.36
Price Contingencies                              3.17          10.53      13.70
Total Project Cost                              15.00          57.70      72.70
US$ Million
Financing Plan:                                   Local        Foreign      Total
Bank                                              -            57.70      57.70
Government                                      15.00            -        15.00
Total                                           15.00          57.70      72.70
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million
IBRD Fiscal Year  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual           2.5      1.5     4.2     7.0    11.0    14.0    12.5      5.0
Cumulative       2.5     4.0      8.2    15.2    26.2    40.2    52.7    57.7



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND  INDUSTRIAL TRAINING  ........................   1
Economic Development  ............................................   I
Industrial Schools ...................  1
Demand  for Qualified Manpower  ...................................   3
Issues  in the  Industrial  Schools  ................................   4
Curriculum Development  and  Reform  ..........................   4
Industrial  Liaison  .........................................   5
Provision  of  Instructors  ...................................   5
Finance  .       ...................................................   6
Budgetary Support . ............................................... 7
Government Education/Training  Strategy and Bank  Lepiding  ....                          .....   7
Strategy .............................................7: ......  7
Bank Lending  Strategy  ......................................   8
II. THE PROJECT .......................................................... 1
Introduction  ....................................................  11
Objectives and  Scope  ............................................  11
Industrial  Schools  ..............................................  12
Instructors . ..................................................... 14
Additional  Technical  Assistance  .................................  15
III.  PROJECT COSTS,  FINANCING,  MANAGEMENT  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ....                            ......... 17
Cost  of  the  Project  ............................................. 17
Summary  of Project Costs  ...................................  17
Basis of  Cost Estimates  ....................................  18
Customs  Duties  and Taxes  ...................................  18
Costs and Areas Per  Student  and  Use Factors  ................ 18
Contingency Allowances  ..................................... 18
Foreign  Exchange  Component  .................................  19
Recurrent  Costs  ............................................  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in November/December 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. C.A. Sinclair
(economist, mission leader), S. Sigurdsson (architect). A. Power (technical
educator), and A. Gow (consultant, industrial training specialist).



Project Financing       ..................... ........ 20
Management and Implementation .................................. 20
Management Structure      .............................. 20
Management Functions       ............................. 21
Site Acquisition        ..............................  21
Maintenance           .............................  21
Procurement ............................                .      21
Technical Assistance       ............................. 23
Implementation Schedule    ............................. 23
Disbursements ................................................... 23
Accounts and Audits          ............................  24
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS      ............................ 25
Benefits ............             ................ 25
Quality of Training    ..25
Manpower Supply   ..25
New Trades ... 25
Equity  . .25
Institution Building    ..25
Utilization   ..25
Upgrading of the Industrial School System   .      .26
Risks .... 26
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................. 27
Annexes:
1   Compar_tive Education Indicators ................................ 29
2   Enrollment, Number of Teachers, and Number of
Secondary Schools by Type, 1983/84 .............................. 31
3  Ministry of Education Actual and Budgetted Expenditure
on the Industrial Schools, 1981-89 (TL Million) ....      ............. 32
4  Number of Places Equipped, Requipped, Total Additional
Enrollment, and Estimated Additional Output from
Project Supported Institutions .................................. 33
5   Locations of Project Industrial Schools ......................... 34
6   Project Component by Category of Expenditure (TL Million) ....... 35
7  Cost Per Student ...........      ..................................... 36
8   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File    ........ 37
Schedules:
I  Technical Assistance Schedule ................................... 38
II  Implementation Schedule ... ..................................... 39
III Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......... ................... 40
IV  Implementation Plan ......................................... 41
Charts:
I  Organization of the MOE ........................................ 43
II  MOE School System ............................................... 44
Map No. IBRD 18811



I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
Economic Development
1.01     In order te stabilize the economy and rationalize the fiscal and
monetary system, Turkey began a program of structural adjustment in 1980. As
a result of this program, Turkey's current account deficit was reduced from
US$3.2 billion in 1980 to US$2.1 billion by 1983, and in 1985 it is expected
to be about US$1 billion. This improvement has largely been achieved by the
rapid growth or exports; in 1985 exports are expected to grow by 31% over the
1984 level to US$7.5 billion. Despite the previous success of the exporting
sector, further improvement in the balance of payments is likely to be
constrained by the decline of migrant worker remittances (down by 3.4Z in the
first seven months of 1984 compared with the first seven months of 1983) and
the repayment of external debt, due to peak in 1985. For these reasons it is
essential that Turkey maintain the development of export industries. The new
Government, elected in November 1983, has confirmed its emphasis on
maintaining economic growth, promoting the private sector, particularly
export-oriented industries. Exports are expected to grow annually at about
111 in the next five years, concurrently with improved levels of industrial
productivity. The manufacturing sector accounts for about 22Z of GDP, 11% of
total employment and 60% of total merchandise exports. Export industries are
mainly in the private sector (80Z of commodity exports), particularly in light
manufacturing industries. In order to sustain the growth of the manufacturing
sector and to retain its competitiveness in international markets, improved
levels of productivity are essential.
1.02     In analyzing the causes of low industrial productivity, the Bank's
Industrialization and Trade Strategy 1/ report identified several issues
including inadequate industrial training capacity. Bank sector work on
industrial training has confirmed this finding, and identified four main
issues in the industrial training sector: (i) the absence of pre-service
industrial technician training; (ii) the lack of in-service industrial
training programs at all skill levels below the professional level; (iii) the
lack of an integrated national industrial training system; and (iv) inadequate
industrial and vocational training facilities at the pre-service secondary
school level. The first three issues are currently being addressed through
the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU, effective in September 1984).
The fourth issue, inadequate industrial training facilities at the pre-service
secondary level, is addressed in this project.
Industrial Schools
1.03     The Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education (DTVE) of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) is practicallv the sole industrial training entity
at the skilled manpower and junior technician levels. A small number of large
industrial enterprises have "industrial schools" attached to their plants
I/ Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy, IBRD Report No. 3641-TU
dated February 18, 1982.



where the training provided is directed to their immediate needs. The main
burden for preparing youths for industrial employment is with the MOE's DTVE
(Chart I), which oversees industrial training in some 316 secondary level
industrial schools (1983/84) (Annex 2 and Chart II).
1.04     The industrial schools focus on training for employment, and are used
to very good purpose as industrial training centers, supporting a broad range
of training programs integrated with industry. The main issues facing the
DTVE are the need to expand the capacity of the industrial schools in order to
meet the current and prospective manpower needs of the developing economy,
particularly in the manufacturing/exporting sectors, and the need to upgrade
training programs and equip the industrial schools in order to raise the level
of training.
1.05     The Government is in the process of expanding the number of
industrial schools and enrollments, from about 142,000 (177 of all secondary
level enrollment in 1983/84) to an estimated 220,000 (24% of all secondary
level enrollment in 1990/91), and, at the same time is undertaking a broadly
based upgrading program of both physical facilities and training elements of
the system.
1.06     The industrial schools offer three- and four-year programs, which
provide pre-service training for skilled industrial occupations and junior
technicians. There was a total enrollment of some 133,200 students in the
three-year program, and 8,400 in the four-year program in 1983/84. Girli
represent 4% of enrollment in these schools, and enroll mainly in the
electrical, electronics, chemistry, and technical drawing trades. The
three-year industrial programs offer training in some 24 trades, while the
four-year industrial programs offer courses in nine of these. Admission to
both programs is based on a nationwide entrance examination given to all
applicants who must have completed successfully eight years of schooling. In
1983 there were twice as many applicants as there were available places in the
industrial schools.
1.07     The industrial schools also provide the required instruction in
theory and workshop practice for the national apprenticeship program. In
1983/84, there were 52 apprenticeship training centers, 40 of which were
operated within the industrial schools, and 12 were operated on separate
premises. Apprenticeship training lasts three to four years, and in the
1983/84 academic year there were 6,700 apprentices enrolled in the centers.
1.08     During the evenings, the industrial schools premises are used for
upgrading adult workers in industrial skills, and they are also used for
industrial pr-ctical trade schools training of which there were 53 in 1983/84
with an enrollment of about 5,900 students. The minimum requirement for entry
to this program is a primary school diploma. Courses are modular, and have an
80% workshop content, and cover 28 trades. The lengths of courses range from
8 to 20 months. The objective of this training program is to assist the
transfer of workers from one skill to another by ungrading. In addition, of
the 316 industrial schools, 14 are used as in-service training centers for
instructors, primarily during school vacations. A consequence of the
multi-purpose use of the industrial school facilities is a very high level of
utilization of equipment and facilities, and a relatively low recurrent cost
per student (about US$200 per year at 1984 prices).



1.09     In terms of nwabers and budget, the industrial schools represent the
largest training compo:,ent of the industrial training system. The success of
these industrial schools is critical to the development of Turkey's
exporting/manufacturing industry, since these schools are the major feedstock
for trained skilled and semi-skilled industrial manpower. The proposed
project addresses the upgrading needs of some 39 industrial schools.
Demand for Qualified Manpower
1.10     The nature of recent economic development, which emphasizes medium
scale manufacturing/exporting industries, has placed a premium on manpower
capable of working to international standards with modern equipment, and on
skills required by automatic processing equipment, such as electronics,
control and instrumentation, industrial hydraulics, and numerical control.
Training facilities for these skills are in many cases absent, and a major
element in the Government's upgrading and development program is the
establishment of trades training in areas of manpower shortages such as
these. While the quality of the existing training program is generally high,
the lack of essential training equipment is a major impediment. Accordingly,
an important objective of the DTVE is the improvement of the quality of
training in the industrial schools through the provision of adequate training
equipment.
1.11     In order to meet more fully the need for qualified industrial
manpower, the Government is embarking upon a modest expansion prqgram of
industrial schools.  In order to evaluate the MOE's proposed expansion   -
program, the Bank prepared the manpower estimates shown on Table 1.1. These
estimates use the 1980 Census as the benchmark for employment, Bank estimates
of growth to update employment to the base year of the projection and to
project employment over the period 1985-95. Table 1.1 presents estimated
manpower demand and supply in the manufacturing sector in the occupations for
which the DTVE industrial schools train manpower at the skilled worker and
junior technician levels. Table 1.1 indicates that with the expansion plan
proposed, the industrial schools will meet approximately 86S of the estimated
demand for labor from 1985 to 1995. Thus the Government's modest expansion
program of the industrial schools concurrently with the improvement of the
qualitative aspects of the entire system, is appropriate.
Table 1.1: ESTIMATED DEMAND AND SUPPLY FOR SKILLED AND
SEMI-SKILLED INDUSTRIAL MANPOWER, 1985-1995
Skilled and Sein-Skilled    1985-1995 Supply/Demand   1990/91 Supply/Demand
Industrial Manpower                       (Z)                       (Z)
Manpower demand                   734,900                   73,490
Manpower supply
(all industrial schools)      632,000      86.0         64,800       88.2
of which additional output
from project institutions      15,380                    2,460
Source: Staff Working Papers, based on data provided by the State Institute
of Statistics, the State Planning Organization, and the MOE.



- 4-
Issues in the Industrial Schools
1.12     The ongoing review by the DTVE of the quality of the training program
of the industrial schools has resulted in an unusually efficient and effective
training system with strong links with industry. While the Bank is supportive
of the DTVE industrial schools program, which is essentially sound in its
objectives and content, significant improvements are possible. They have been
included in proposed project.
1.13     Curriculum Development and Reform.  The industrial schools program
has been in operation for some 30 years, during which time a body of curricula
has evolved which has been revised periodically. The National Board of
Education (NBE) (Chart I) is the ultimate authority for curricula reform in
Turkey, though the DTVE carries day to day responsibility for curricula
development. Amendments to existing curricula are approved by the NBE.
Curricula currently in use in the industrial schools are modeled on
international curricula for each trade, developed by local curriculum
specialists and adapted to national conditions, translated into Turkish, and
printed and published by the MOE.  The curriculum divides between general
subjects (40X). technical theory and workshop practice (54Z) and student
counselling (6Z). The present curricula are basically sound in respect of
trades training, though the teaching week is unduly long (49-52 hours) and the
curricula of some trades require updating. The result of this lengthy
teaching week is an increased cost of salaries, and, as a result of a gradual
addition to the curricula of a range of non-technical general subjects over
several years, there has been a dilution of emphasis on trades training. The
MOE is undertaking stcps to revise the curricula to reduce the amount of time
spent on non-technical subjects which will lead to a reduction in the teaching
week frcm about 50 hours to about 40 hours in 1985/86. This change would not
affect che utilization of laboratories and workshops, and would make the
programming of classroom usage more manageable.
1.14     A major initiative in the development of curricula is the Vocational
and Technical Education Project (METEP), which was started in the early
1980s. The MOE selected some four industrial schools (of which three are
schools included in the proposed project) as pilot centers for the
introduction of more modular based curricula. The initial evaluation of this
program is encouraging, as efficiency rates are typically higher and employers
report high levels of satisfaction with graduates. The MOE is considering
expanding the number of schools and specializations covered by the METEP
project. The Bank endorses both the substance of the METEP project, and this
approach to curricula development. The progress of the METEP project,
particularly the implementation of its successful components, will be
:arefully monitored by the Bank.
1.15     In order to enhance the ability of local authors of curricula
materials, the MOE provides, annually, in-service training courses in
curricula development; in 1983/84, 140 serving instructors and teachers
attended a one-week course in curricula development. Under the proposed
project, subject specialists under a technical assistance program would assist
the development of these programs and with the upgrading of existing
curricula. where appropriate (para. 2.08).



l.lo     As a result of language differences, there is a lack of exposure to
modern technical textbooks, and the general availability of modern reference
textbooks is very limited. As a result, teaching approaches and content tend
to apply to dated technologies, which, though in use in Turkey, are rapidly
being replaced by more modern technology. In order to improve the
availability of modern reference materials, the Government is embarking on a
program to translate some 50 international reference textbooks into Turkish,
and reproduce them using the Educational Science Equipment Production Center
(ESEPC) (supported under Loan 748-TU) and distribute these to the industrial
schools. As a result of these measures major qualitative improvements in the
curricula can be anticipated.
1.l7     Industrial Liaison.  The industrial schools enjoy unusually close
ties with industry: industrial representatives are included on the Board of
the METEP project; active School Advisory Committees (SACs) exist at the large
majority of schools with representation from industry; students spend some 40
days on industrial placement in their third and fourth years; and industrial
employers assist in the placement of students in employment. A special one
week in-service program is given each year for 40 teachers on the role of
school-industry links. However, these tiei would benefit from an amendment to
tihe membership of the Trade Advisory Committees (TACs). The TACs are
nationally based bodies which provide the MOE with advice and guidance in
respect of individual trades on the quality of graduates and on the need for
appropriate developments in curricula. On the basis of advice from the TACs,
curricula within individual trades are .amended for all industrial schools. At
present the membership of the TACs includes representation from the large
employers of graduates from a particular trade training (e.g., Turkiye
Electrik Kurumu (TEK) in the case of electrical trades training) large
industries, as well as staff of the industrial schools and the MOE. However,
industrial representation is variable, and the quality of advice givei by the
TACs would be improved by the systematic representation of industrv on all
TACs. The Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the SACs described
under the First Education Project (Loan 748-TU) exist at industrial schools
supported under that project, and at every industrial school visited by the
mission, with the exception of newly opened industrial schools (para. 2.09).
1.18     Provision of Instructors.  The nunber of teaching staff in the
industrial schools is some 10,600 (of whom some 1,600 are womern) most of whom
are graduates of a Technical Teacher Training College (TTTC) or an industrial
school and have industrial experience. All instructors presently employed by
the MOE in the industrial schools have acceptable teaching qualifications and
current staff/student ratio is an acceptable 1:14. The main sources of supply
of instructors at present are: (a) direct recruitment of qualified
instructors working outside the MOE; (b) industry, which provides part-time
teachers for practical work; and (c) the three Technical Education Colleges in
Ankara, Istanbul, and Elazig (current enrollment in these three faculties is
3,800).
1.19     In numerical terms, the provision of instructors for the present
industrial schools and the planned expansion is adequate. However, the
retention and attraction of well qualified instructors is an important
objective for the MOE, particularly for instructors who have marketable



- 6 -
industrial skills. In 1983/84 industrial school technical instructors were on
a salary scale which ranged from TL 46,000 to TL 81,000 per month. The
average monthly salary of instructors in the industrial schools in the
proposed project was, in 1983/84, TL 52,000, which is comparable with salary
levels in the private sector for similar jobs. While there will always be a
tendency for good staff to seek better paid employment in industry, the MOE
has been able, thus far, to attract and retain staff. The fringe benefits and
job security of an appointment with the MOE combined with current salaries
have proved sufficient incentive to attract some 800 qualified applicants from
industry during 3 recent recruitment drive by the Ministry. The present
levels of salaries paid to industrial schools' staff are therefore an
appropriate compromise between the need to retain highly qualified instructors
and the need to control the recurrent costs of education. Accordingly, in
order to ensure that the quality of instructors is maintained, the Government
will keep instructor salaries under careful review and additional emphasis is
being placed on the in-service teacher training program (para. 2.12).
1.20     Finance.  During the past five years, financial resources have been
extremely constrained, while enrollment has grown by 5X annually from 113,000
to 142,000. Although the industrial schooLs are staffed adequately and
physical facilities are good, there is a shortage of modern training equipment
and learning materials. The industrial s_hsols are mainly financed out of the
MOE allocation in the Central Budget. There are three other sources of income
available to the industrial schools. Firstly, at several schools visited by
the mission, industry had donated a limited amount of equipment and
furnishings. Secondly, industrial employers .who send employees to the schools
for evening classes pay TL 7,000 (1984) per 128 hours of instruction as a
contribution towards training costs. Thirdly, it is Government policy for
every industrial school to operate a revolving fund to finance the purchase of
materials necessary to produce items either for sale to outside agencies or
required by the MOE, such as desks and chairs. The industrial schools make
about 5X to 10% profit on these activities.  As used in the industrial
schools, the revolving funds are a very positive element of the training
program, as they are a means of ensuring that objective standards are applied
to the quality of instruction, and also because they are a means of financing
training materials which would otherwise have to be financed by the Government.
1.21     In order to ensure the long run viability of the education and
training system, the new Government has begun, for the first time and very
recently (September 1984), to introduce fees 'or university students.  The
Government also underlined its commitment to the general application of cost
recovery for education and training in the current Five-Year Plan. It is
agreed policy between the Government and the Bank that, in principle, cost
recovery measures should be progressively extended throughout the educati-=
and training system, taking due account of considerations of equity and
efficiency.   There are several reasons to suggest that the introduction of
fees, or similar cost recovery measures, to the industrial schools in
particular would be beneficial to the system. These are: (a) the industrial
schools are a particularly (and necessarily) expensive form of education, in
which private and social rates of return are typically high. The currernt
excess of demand for places in the industrial schools would enable the
Government to charge fees towards these costs without diminishing



significantly the demand for training places; (b) the attribution of a price
to the training available would establish a value for training both in the
minds of trainees and employers, thus increasing the pronensity of employers
to support the industrial schools programs financially, and increasing the
commitment of traiaees to the program. Convecsely, there are several
important questions :c which answers are required prior to the introduction of
cost recovery measures, including: (a) how high would the administrative
overheads be to a fee paying system, and would these negate the likely
benefits to their introduction; (b) to what extent would fees be a regressive
tax on the poorer sections of the community; (c) in the context of a general
introduction of fees to the secondary level of education, what pattern of
relative fees between types of schools (secondary vocational/general) would be
appropriate to achieve the Government's educational objectives; (d) what would
the effect on the demand for places be of different levels of fee structure;
(e) to what extent could a fee structure reflect qualitative differences in
the programs provided; (f) to what extent could employers be requested to: (i)
contribute towards training costs; and (ii) sponsor either particular
industrial programs or individual students, possibly those in deprived ar i s
or from low income groups; and (g) at what point would scholarship programs be
appropriate, and what would the optimal institutional mechanism for such a
program be. The Government has requested Bank assistance with the futher
review of this question and Bank financed sector work on education finance as
it pertains to the entire education system is scheduled to begin in July
1985. In the proposed project, finance is included for a study to assist the
Government address this issue in respect of the industrial schools in
particular (para 2.15).
Budgetary Support
1.22     In 1983, Turkey spent an amount equivalent to 3.3% of GNP on
education. This is slightly lower than the average ratio for other countries
at a similar stage of development. Education accounted for 16% of all
Government expenditures in the same year; primary (including pre-schools),
secondary and higher education receiving 51%, 22% and 24% of the budget,
respectively. 1/ All technical and vocational education accounted for 18% of
all expenditures at the secondary level, three-quarters of which are recurrent
expenditures, mainly teachers' and instructors' salaries. In 1983 the
industrial schools received 9% of all MOE expenditures, a proportion which
fell to 6% in 1984. This decline is the result of the completion of a major
program of construction of industrial schools. The MOE has budgetted to
maintain the share of the industrial schools in the MOE budget at 6% in the
aext five years. This allocation will require careful monitoring by the
Government to ensure that the industrial schools receive resources
commensurate to their need during the expansion 'o3gram. The proposed study
of education costs (para. 2.15) will assist the Government in this task.
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending
1.23     Strategy.  The restructuring of the economy and the policy of
developing a more open economy have affected significantly the Government's
education and training objectives in recent years. The emphasis on
1/ Other items of educational expenditure, including the education of the
childrer. of Turkish migrant workers abroad, accounted for some 3% of the
budget.



industrial, particularly export oriented, development, has highlighted a
series of weaknesses in the field of industrial training. The previous
emphasis on the development of general secondary education and university
expansion is now being replaced by a heightened emphasis on the manpower needs
of the industrial sector. In this respect Government policy has been
positively influenced by a dialogue with the Bank under economic and sector
work, in particular the Industrialization and Trade Strategy Report, which
identified the lack of industrial training facilities and the need for
improved technology development as key issues. Accordingly, in order to
facilitate the growth of the industrial sector by ensuring an adequate
provision of suitably trained manpower, the Government is proposing a modest
expansion of enrollment and output from the industrial schools from a 17%
share of enrollment in 1983/84 to a 24X share in 1988/89. The growth of
unemployment has also led the Government to place a greater emphasis at the
post-primary level on vocational aspects of education, in particular the need
to ensure the employability of school leavers. The recent development of the
mineral, water, and agricultural resources of the eastern regions has
demonstrated a requirement for skilled manpower which in many areas is
lacking, due to the limited provision of education and training facilities.
The Government has identified key provinces in the east of Turkey as
priorities for education and training development. In the Fifth Five-Year
Development Plan (1985-89) these objectives are reflected in the proposed
expansion of vocational and technical training programs, and through special
provision for the eastern provinces.
1.24     At the same time as recognizing the nced to increase educational
provision, the Government is aware of the need to ensure the financial
viability of the system in the long run. The Government is taking measures to
control and reduce recurrent costs and, at the same time, is seeking ways in
which to raise revenue to support the industrial schools. Additional
resources are both earned and received by the schools from local industry
(para. 1.20). However, the Government, under the proposed project would
undertake a study of further ways and means to control costs and raise
additional revenues.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.25     Bank lending in Turkey has so far concentrated on supporting
industrial training. There have been two Bank loans. An Education loan for
US$13.5 million (Loan 748-TU) was signed in 1971 and closed in 1981. This
project supported 32 four-year industrial schools, the Technical Teazher
Training College (TTTC) in Ankara, as well as the ESEPC, and the Education,
Film, Radio and Television Center (EFRTC). The Project Performance Audit
Report No. 4018 (PPAR) (dated June 28. 1982) stated that the educational
impact of this project was consideraDle, particularly on industrial schools,
with project equipment well used and maintained and enrollments in the
industrial schools practically as anticipated at appraisal. The Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2399-TU), effective September 1984, is with the Council
for Higher Education (YoK), the Industrial Training and Development Center
(SEGEM), and the State Institute of Statistics (SIS). The project objectives
are to support pre-service training of senior industrial technicians with YoX,
in-service training of technicians and professionals in industry under SEGEM,



and to assist the Government to improve the quality of their statistical
services through training under SIS. The focus of the Industrial Training
Project on the senior technician level end on in-service training is
complementary to the proposed project, which supports skilled workers and
junior technician training programs. Implementation of the Industrial
Training Project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.26     Bank lending strategy in the education and training sector is
complementary to Government policy. It has, as a priority, the objective of
improving the productivity of labor, particularly in the industrial sector.
The Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU) and the proposed Industrial
Schools Project are mutually complementary and support this objective. These
two projects cover much, in terms of scope, of the types of training required
for the national development of pre-service skilled manual workers, Junior and
senior technicians. Both projects represent a partial coverage of the total
requirement for improved industrial training, and are seen as the first in a
series of projects in this field. As part of this objective, the training of
technicians qualified to support an advanced technological environment, and
the development of an institutional environment supportive of modern
technology development, are envisaged as elements of future lending
activities. A second priority is the development and upgrading of the
educational and training facilities of the eastern regions, in order to assist
the development of those regions. A third priority is to assist the
Government re-orient and upgrade vocational training programs towards
employment. In each case the financial viability of the system, and the need
to ensure efficiency and quality in training, are a common objective.
1.27     In the design of the proposed project, two lessons drawn from past
experience have been incorporated. The PPAR for the First Education Project
(Loan 748-TU) cited the lack of a well defined Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) as a weakness of the project. In the proposed project, a PIU structure,
and its internal and external relations and responsibilities have been
discussed with the Government and are acceptable. A well qualified Director
Lias been appointed and the FIU staff have been closely involved in the
preparation of the project. The second lesson learned from the First
Education Project and applied in the proposed project has been the careful
ascertainment of Government support for proposed technical assistance. The
PPAR questioned the depth of Government support to the proposed technical
assistance program under the First Education Project. The technical
assistance program under the proposed project was proposed by the Government,
and has the wholehearted support of the MOE. Terms of reference were
discussed and agreed during appraisal, and would be confirmed at negotiations.



9
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
"'o
C)
sI'



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
project identification mission in July 1984, and a subsequent Bank preparation
assistance mission in September 1984. The project was appraised in December
1984.
Objectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project would assist the Government implement priority
industrial training programs to improve productivity and assist the
maintenance of high rates of economic growth, particularly in t;e
manufacturing/exporting sectors. The project objectives are as follows;
(a) to improve the quality and increase the quantity of trained
industrial manpower by equipping and re-equipping seven existing
trade specializations and equipping four new trade specializations in
39 existing industrial schools;
(b) to improve the quality of existing curricula and training materials,
and to assist the development of programs for new trade
specializations; and
(c)  to improve the planning and management capacity of the DTVE Dy
providing technical assistance.
2.03     The project would includez
(a) refurbishment, equipment, and furniture in 39 existing industrial
schools, to establish 3,577 new training places and to re-eqlip 3,647
training places (Table 2.1):
Table 2.1: NUMBER OF PLACES RE-EQUIPPED, EQUIPPED
AND TOTAL ENROLLMENT IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Number of Places        Additional
Re-equipped      Equipped   Enrollment   Total Enrollment
Existing trades           3,632           3,292         7,620          15,080
New Trades                   15             285        1,050            1,080
Total                    .3,647           3,577        8,670           16,160
Source: Annex 4.
(b) technical assistance (Schedule I); (i) related to the above project
components for industrial schools (66 man-months of specialist
services and 686 man-months of fellowships); (ii) 24 man-months of
specialist services and 24 man-months of fellowships to improve the
management capability of the DTVE and industrial schools;



- 12 -
(c) six man-months of specialist services and six man-months of
fellowships, to assist the process of technical textbook translation;
and
(d) feasibility and project studies (20 man-months of specialist
services).
Industrial Schools
2.04     To improve the quality of training in industrial schools and
alleviate the scarcity of skilled labor in the industrial sector, the project
would provide refurbishment, equipment, furniture and technical assistance for
39 existing industrial schools (see Map and Annex 5). These industrial
schools are distributed across the country, and cover the main industrial
areas and the south and southeastern regions, both of which are priority areas
in the Government's development strategy. The proposed project would assist
the Government meet the urgent manpower requirements of industry in urban
areas as well as in the regional development zones by providing additional and
improved training facilities, and the access to training of lower income
groups. The 39 schools were selected during appraisal from a total of some
177 requiring upgrading and for which project assistance was requested. The
criteria of selection of proposed project schools were: (a) the physical state
of existing workshops, classroom and school facilities; (b) the quality of
existing links with industry; and (c) the priority of a region in the
Government's development strategy.
2.05     In the proposed project, industrial training in 11 specializations
would be supported. Of these, four are trade specializations for which
existing curricula are adequate (electrical, foundry, dyeing, and printing),
seven trade specializations are either new to the industrial schools or have
curricula which require updating (electronics - including marine electronics
and telecommunications - pneumatics and industrial hydraulics, machine tools
and computer numerically controlled machines (CNCMs), control and
instrumentation, and computer science). Through the provision of training
equipment, training will be introduced to existing schools in specializations
not presently taught through lack of equipment (machine tools and CNCM, dyeing
and textiles, and computer applications) and in four specializations entirely
new to the industrial schools system (pneumatics and hydraulics,
telecommunications, control and instrumentation, and marine electronics). The
eleven trade specializations were selected for proposed project support on the
basis of: (a) national shortages of skilled manpower; and (b) skills
shortages specific to the region in which the schools are located. The Bank
confirmed these priority skill requirements through site visits and through
discussions with Government agencies (Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry
of Education, State Planning Organization) industrial employers, and the
Chambers of Commerce and Industry.
2.06     The enrollment in project schools in supported specializations would
be about 16,160, of which 8,670 would be additional and the estimated annual
additional output from the three- and four-year programs together would be
some 2,460 beginning in 1991 (Annex 4). The Government is supportive of
women's participation in the industrial schools, and all courses are open



- 13 -
equally to men and women. Women have tended to specialize in the
technologically more advanced skills, such as electronics, electrical and
computer applications, and as a result of the emphasis in this project on
these areas, an estimated 12% of total enrollment would be women, primarily in
the electronics, electrical, and computer applications specializations. The
current annual drop-out rate is 4% annually, which is typical for training
programs of this type. In order to minimize drop-outs, student counselling is
included in the curriculum. There is an excess of applications over available
places, by a factor of about 2:1, and the growth of the population and the
location of the schools in reasonably large towns or cities ensure a more than
adequate supply of trainees. In order to assist the Government with the
further development of the industrial schools, the MOE would undertake an
employment follow-up study of graduates from four industrial schools. The
study would b± undertaken by existing qualified MOE staff together with
industrial schools staff, and would be completed by December 31, 1989.  An
assurance to this effect was provided by the Government at the time of
negotiations.
2.07       The curriculum used in the industrial schools is based on
international standards, and is generally acceptable in respect of existing
trades, though some upgrading is required and curricula need to be developed
for new trades (para. 2.05). The duration of the teaching week (49-52 hours)
is unduly long, and as part of a general upgrading of the industrial schools,
the MOE is planning to reduce the teaching week to 40 hours in 1985/86. This
reduction would affect primarily non-technical aspects of the curricula, and
the Government- is proposing to re-deploy teachers to other schools within the
MOE system which require additional teachers as a result of attrition of
teachers or expansion.
2.08     New and improved curricula and training materials need to be prepared
for three existing trade specializations (electronics, machine tools and CNCM,
and computer science) and four new areas (pneumatics and industrial
hydraulics, control and instrumentation, telecommunications, and marine
electronics). This project component would, therefore, include 66 man-months
of curriculum and program development specialists to develop suitable
materials for these courses, assist the DTVE introduce new programs, and
provide assistance with the further development of the in-service training
program in these specializations (para. 1.15). The project would also include
680 man-months of overseas fellowship training for 75 instructors in
specializations supported by the project and six man-months of fellowship
training for one instructor in curriculum development.
2.09     Links with industry are generally good (para. 1.17).  School Advisory
Committees (SACs) exist at most project schools, the exception being srchDols
newly established. Trade Advisory Committees (TACs) exist in five areas
(electrical, electronics, foundry, machine tools, and printing and dyeing),
which advise the MOE on appropriate curricula and program development. TACs
do not exist for the new specializations supported under the proposed
project. Industrial representation is good in the existing SACs, but uneven
in the TACs. In order to improve industrial links and to sharpen the
industrial focus of the entire system cf the industrial schools, the
Government provided an assurance at negotiations that: (a) SACs would be



- 14 -
established by September 30, 1986 at all industrial schools and would meet at
least annually; (b) all SACs would include industrial representation; and (c)
TACs would be formed for new trade specializations included in the proposed
project by September 30, 1986 with industrial representation and would meet at
least annually.
2.10     Instructors.  In the proposed project, a total of 218 technical
instructors are required to staff the additional training programs. Of these,
143 are in specializations covered by programs in the existing TTTCs and for
which the current enrollment in the TTTCs is adequate. A total of 31
instructors are required for specializations for which instructor training is
not presently provided (pneumatics and industrial hydraulics,
telecommunications, control and instrumentation, and marine electronics). The
project therefore includes fellowship training for 31 instructors for 310
man-months of training in these subjects. An estimated 44 instructors are
required for specializations for which training is currently provided though
not at a sufficiently advanced level (electronics, electrical, machine tools
and CNCM, and computer science). Accordingly, the project includes fellowship
training of 44 instructors for 370 man-months. Candidates for fellowship
training would be selected from those with adequate language ability to attain
the maximum benefit from the training. The MOE would provide upgrading and
refresher courses in the language of proposed study using existing MOE
language training facilities. In addition, provision for language training
has been included within the fellowship program.
2.11     The Government has a strong and well defined bonding system, and
drop-outs from the proposed overseas fellowship training program are expected
to be minimal. The appraisal mission undertook a careful review of the terms
and conditions of employment of instructors, with a view to assessing the
MOE's ability to attract and retain instructors. On the basis of a review of
instructors' salaries, salaries available in industry for similar occupations,
and the track record of the MOE in retaining staff, present levels of
remuneration are sufficient to attract, and in the majority of cases, retain
teachers. Accordingly, no undue difficulty in the recruitment of qualified
instructors for project institutions is anticipated. However, the Bank would
maintain a careful review of this critical element of the industrial schools'
program during project supervision.
2.12     In order to ensure that technical instructors retain their knowledge
and competency, in-service training for DTVE staff is provided during the
summer months. In 1984, some 900 DTVE staff (8Z of industrial schools
teaching staff) attended in-service training programs for an average duration
of two weeks, the majority of which are held in the summer months. As a
result of the commissioning of a permanent in-service instructor tr-_ning
center in Ankara, the DTVE is expanding this program in 1985. The in-service
training program is a key and effective element in the dissemination of new
ideas and the maintenance of quality in instructors. Under the proposed
project, in-service programs will be developed in new specializations and
existing programs updated with assistance from the subject specialists
financed through the project.



- 15 -
2.13     In order to ensure that technical instructors and students have
access to current reference and training materials, the DTVE is proposing to
translate about 50 international technical textbooks into Turkish, print and
distribute these throughout the industrial schools. The DTVE is proposing to
use MOE printing facilities supported under the First Education Project (Loan
748-TU) to reproduce between 7,000 and 30,000 copies of each translated
textbook. In order to assist the Government to: (a) obtain copyrights prior
to translation and reproduction; and (b) obtain an accurate translation, the
proposed project would provide six man-months of specialist services for this
purpose and would include funds for a one time fee for copyright acquisition
and royalty payments. In order to assist the DTVE develop an institutional
capacity for textbook translation and production, the proposed project would
finance six man-months of fellowship training in textbook translation, design
and printing.
2.14     In order to ensure the maintenance of high quality training programs,
the Department of Technical and Vocational Education would monitor sever.^l key
aspects of performance in the industrial schools, including: promotion,
repetition and drop-out rates in the industrial schools; turnover rates of
staff in the proposed project schools; and the number, proportion and
performance of staff on in-service training programs. These performance
indicators would be reported upon to the Bank on an annual basis. In
addition, a mid-term project review would be conducted jointly with the MOE's
office of Inspectorate and the Department of Technical Education and
Vocational Training and the Bank.
Additional Technical Assistance
2.15     In addition to the provision of technical assistance for the above
project components, the project would include 16 man-months of specialist
services for feasibility and project studies oz: computer aided learning,
program development, commercial training programs, and adult training. In
addition,, the DTVE is concerned to maintain a tight control of the recurrent
costs of the industrial schools, and, to develop further revenue generating
activities, within the terms of reference of the industrial schools. To
assist the Government in this task, the proposed project includes four
man-months of specialist services for a study of cost control and recovery
which would have the particular objective of determining ways and means of
raising additional resources from students, local industry, local employers'
organizations, and other concerned agencies equivalent to the estimated
incremental recurrent costs of the proposed project in the industrial schools
(para. 3.07).
2.16     In order to assist the DTVE manage the educational asn-zts of the
project, as well as to assist the Government with timely project
implementation, the proposed project would include one specialist in project
management, equipment procurement and program planning for 24 man-months.
This specialist would work with the Undersecretary of the DTVE and the
Director of the PIU. To strengthen the management capacity of the DTVE staff
and school directors, the proposed project would finance 24 man-months of
fellowship training in project management, equipment planning and schools'
management for nine fellows. The DTVE would assign a full-time counterpart



- 16 -
for each specialist included in the technical assistance program. Terms of
reference for the technical assistance, including job descriptions and work
programs for specialists, and duration and type of training for fellowships,
have been prepared and would be agreed with the Government at negotiations.



- 17 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
3.01     Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at
TL 30.3 billion or US$72.7 million equivalent and include the refurbishment
of, and furniture for, existing buildings; provision of equipment, specialist
services and fellowships; and incremental recurrent costs during the project
period for the project items shown in Table 3.1 and further detailed in
Annex 6.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
TL Million            US$ Million         Z    S  of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign Total
Industrial Schools
Facilities            2,670  16,344  19,014   6.36  38.91  45.27   86.0   84.5
Curriculum & program
development             107   1,105   1,212   0.25   2.64   2.89   91.3    5.4
Textbook translation
& production            885     475   1,360   2.11   1.13   3.24   34.9    6.0
Studies & future
pr9ject preparation      15      86      101   0.04   0.20   0.24   83.3    0.4
Incremental recurrent
costs                  .840       0      840   2.00   0.00   2.00    0.0    3.7
Total base costs        4,517  18,010  22,527  10.76  42.88  53.64   79.7  100.0
Physical
contingencies           452   1,801   2,253   1.07   4.29   5.36   80.0   10.0
Price contingencies    1,333   4,422   5,755   3.17  10.53  13.70   76.9   25.5
Total project costs    6,302  24,233  30,535  15.00  57.70  72.70   79.4  135.5
A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2.



- 18 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
TL Million           US$ Million         X    &  of
Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Foreign Total
Refurbishment & furniture    491       164     655  1.17   0.39   1.56  25.0   2.9
Equipment                   2,180  16,192  18,372  5.19  38.55  43.74  88.1  81.6
Books & translations          880      443   1,323  2.10   1.06   3.16  33.5   5.9
Technical assistance:
Specialists                 88      497     585  0.21   1.18   1.39  85.0
Fellowships                 38      714     752  0.09   1.70   1.79  95.0
Subtotal:                  126   1,211   1,337  0.35   2.31   2.66  90.6   5.9
Incremental recurrent costs  840         -     840  2.00       -   2.00   0.0   3.7
Total base costs:           4,517  18,010  22,527 10.76  42.88  53.64  79.9 100.0
Physical contingencies:       452   1,801   2,253  1.07   4.29   5.36  80.0  10.0
Price contingencies:        1,333   4X422   5.755  3.17  10.53  13.70  76.9  25.5
Total Project Costs:        6,325  23,940  30,535 15.00  57.70  72.70  79.4 135.8
3.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs of refurbishing existing facilities
(including provision of furniture) are based on existing, priced furniture
lists and mission estimates of the cost of minor alteration that will be
required to bring existing building facilities up to acceptable standards.
These costs average US$15,000 per workshop. Equipment costs have been
estimated on the basis of existing equipment lists and specifications for
about 80% of the workshops. For the remainder of the facilities, equipment
costs have been calculated on the basis of costs per student in comparable
Bank-wide financed facilities (Annex 7). Technical assistance costs (about 6%
of project total) have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable technical assistance in the Industrial Training Project (Loan
2399-TU). The man-month costs of specialists include housing, relocation
costs, salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, overheads and recruitment
costs. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected for the time of
negotiations (April 1985).
3.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Equipment and goods imported for use by
Government ministries are exempt from duties.
3.04     Costs and Areas per Student and Use Factors.  Equipment costs per
student in the industrial schools are estimated at an average of US$2,604,
which is comparable with those of Bank-wide financed facilities for industrial
training of this type (Annex 7). Use factors in the industrial schools would
be about 70% in classrooms and 60Z in workshops.
3.05     Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$5.36 million), equal to 10% of
the estimated cost of all project items. Price contingencies between



- 19 -
negotiations (April 1985) and the end of project implementation are estimated
at US$13.70 million equivalent, or 23.2Z of base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 35.5% of the base cost. Annual
rates of price increases have been applied to both local and foreign costs and
for all categories in US$ terms at the following annual rates: 52 in 1985,
7.57 in 1986, 8X in 1987-90, and 5Z thereafter.  By expressing both foreign
and local price contingencies in US$ equivalencies, it has been assumed that
the present policy of adjusting the Lira exchange rate to reflect the
inflation differential between Turkey and its major trading partners will
continue. The Lira has been devalued in accordance with this pattern since
1980 and is now adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system.
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) refurbishment and furniture for existing facilities
- 25Z; (b) equipment - 88Z; (c) specialist services - 85Z; (d) fellowships -
952; (e) technical reference books and translations - 34X; and (f) incremental
recurrent costs - 0X. These percentages have been determined by: (a)
estimating the indirect foreign exchange of construction and furniture; (Lj
assuming that all equipment would be imported; and (c) assumir. that all
project financed specialists would be foreign. Including contingencies, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$57.7 million, or about 79% of
total costs.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project additional recurrent
costs would be generated by the additional recruitment of instructors to staff
project institutions. Since all project buildings are already completed and
in most instances in use, no additional recurrent costs would be generated by
building maintenance. The total additional recurrent (base) costs generated
by instructors' salaries would be TL 840 million at 1985 prices. This sum
represents 4.0% of the industrial schools recurrent budget in 1984, and 0.25Z
of the entire MOE budget in 1984. These incremental recurrent costs would be
generated at the rate that additional instructors are employed in the
industrial schools. The objective would be to try to achieve a neutral or
favourable impact on the recurrent budget. Fortunately, the incremental
recurrent costs generated by the proposed project are likely to be more than
offset by necessary curricula change and related shortend teaching week,
described in para 1.13. 1/ In addition to this, the proposed project would
include a study which would have the objective of raising additional resources
for further expansion of the industrial school system (para 2.15).
Accordingly, the proposed project would have a neutral or favourable impact on
the recurrent budget of the MOE.
1/  At maximum the savings, if a reduced teaching week were introduced by the
academic year 1986/87, would amount to TL 13 Billion over the life of the
proposed project. While the MOE is unlikely, for practical and social
reasons, to achieve the maximum possible savings, it is also highly likely
that the incremental recurrent costs of the project (TL 840 million) would
be more than covered by such savings.



- 20 -
Project Financing
3.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$57.7 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange component of the project. The Government would finance the
balance of project costs. Project financing would be in accordance with
Table 3.3. In order to permit the MOE to complete final equipment lists, to
facilitate the completion of appropriate technical assistance agreements, and
to facilitate the further development of project preparation activities,
retroactive financing of up to US$0.4 million would be included to cover the
cost of office equipment and specialist services necessary for timely project
start-up. Retroactive financing would be limited to expenditures incurred
prior to loan signing but after January 1, 1985.
Table 3.3: FINANCIAL PLAN
Estimated
Share of
US$ Million              Bank
Category of Expenditure                Government   Bank   Total   Financing (X)
Refurbishment and furniture                 1.8       0.0      1.8        0.0
Equipment, books and copyright              8.9      50.0    58.9        84.8
Technical assistance:
Consultants                            0.2        1.1     1.3        84.6
Fellowships                            0.0        2.0     2.0       100.0
Future project development                  0.0       0.3     0.3       100.0
Incremental recurrent costs                 3.0       0.0     3.0         0.0
Unallocated                                 1.1       4.3     5.4        79.6
Total                                      15.0      57.7    72.7        79.4
Management and Implementation
3.09     Management Structure.  The proposed project would be implemented by
the MOE's Department of Technical and Vocational Education. A Project
Implementation Unit (BIU) has been formally established within the Directorate
of Technical and Vocational Education (DTVE) with a director appointed and
budget provisions made for the immediate recruitment of a procurement officer,
an accountant, an educational adviser and a data processor. In addition to
its tasks of organizing, calling and awarding contracts for technical
assistance and equipment, functions of the PIU would primarily be those of
coordinating the work of implementing departments, monitoring progress,
keeping project accounts and liaising with the Bank. At the time of
negotiations the Government provided an assurance that the PIU would be
maintained, with staffing and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
3.10     Two directorates other than that of Technical and Vocational
Education would be directly involved in project implementation, namely the
Directorate of Investment, Establishment and Building Services (DIEBS) and the
Directorate of Education Aids, Materiais and Equipment (DEANE). All three
directorates report to the Assistant Undersecretary for the Department of



- 21 -
Technical Education and Vocational Training (Chart I), are competently
staffed, and have handled large scale expansion programs of technical and
vocational education over the past decade.
3.11     Management Functions.  The DTVE is staffed by some 70 professionals
and is in charge of the training of about 142,000 students in the industrial
schools. Under the proposed project, this directorate would assist the PIU in
the preparation and modification of equipment lists and sipecifications; it
would review and modify curricula, recruit instructors and monitor training
curricula for technical teachers, and identify fellowship candidates.
3.12     The DIEBS with about 70 staff is responsible for preparing and
monitoring construction programs and budget requests for all schools at the
secondary level in Turkey. Prototype designs and equipment layouts for
workshops and laboratories are also prepared by this directorate, whereas
design development, tender documents, contracting and supervision are normally
handled by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH). Under the
proposed project the DIEBS would prepare equipment layouts and arrange for
necessary minor modifications to existing structures.
3.13     The DEAME is staffed by about 75 professionals and is responsible for
procurement within the Ministry. During 1983 it handled about US$8.0 million
worth of local and foreign equipment contracts from the drafting stage of
tender documents to final distribution and settlement of contractual
disputes.  The directorate is currently acquiring a minicomputer to assist it1
staff in processing procurement more efficiently. Once this system is
operational, the capacity of the directorate to procure equipment is expected
to increase sharply to about US$20.0 million per year. Under the proposed
project this directorate would be responsible for supervising the execution of
equipment contracts, certification of payments, inspections, warehousing,
distribution to schools, installation, commissioning and settlements of claims.
3.14     Site Acquisition.  All project items will be housed in existing
facilities. Consequently there is no need to acquire sites.
3.15     Maintenance.  Project institutions have been well maintained in the
past and the Ministry of Education's policy and practices in this respect are
expected to continue.
3.16     Procurement.  Invitations to bid on equipment have been grouped into
27 major packages of goods, the contents of which could typically be supplied
by one supplier. These items, suitable for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement Urnder rBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (August 1984), and would account
for about 90% of the total value of equipment. For the remaining 10% of the
equipment value, there would be about 55 minor packages, suitable for
procurement other than ICB. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of
Table 3.4.



- 22 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
--     US$ Million- -
Procurement Method                  Total
Project Element             ICB           LCB          Other           Cost
Refurbishment & furniture         0.0           1.2             0.7            1.9
(0.0)        (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
Equipment                        53.3           5.0             1.0           59.3
(48.0)        (4.5)           (0.8)         (53.3)
Books & copyright                 0.0           0.0             0.8            0.8
(0.0)        (0.0)           (0.7)          (0.7)
Translation and printing          0.0           0.0             3.5            3.5
(0.0)        (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
Technical assistance and
studies                        2.8           0.0             1.1           3.9
(2.6)        (0.0)           (1.1)          (3.7)
Incremenzal recurrent costs       0.0           0.0             3.3            3.3
(0.0)        (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                            56.1           6.2            10.4           72.7
(50.6)        (4.5)           (2.6)         (57.7)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Refurbishment of existing buildings and provisions of furniture would
be carried out by force account (US$0.7 million for alterations of
buildings) and through existing contracts with industrial schools-and
commercial suppliers (US$1.2 million for provision of furniture).
These items would be financed exclusively by the Government.
(b) Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$5.0
million and which would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers
because of the variety of each contract, could be awarded on the,.
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, using local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Sundry items not exceeding Ub$50,000 in each contract and aggregating
a maximum of US$1.0 million equivalent could be purchased on the
basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with the local
procurement procedures outlined in (b) above.



- 23 -
(d) Acquisition of technical books, copyright and a once-for-all payment
to cover the anticipated royalty payments, arising from the printing
of each book (estimated to cost less than US$0.8 million in the
aggregate), would be done through negotiations with publishers.
(e) Translation and printing (estimated to cost about US$3.5 million)
would be carried out by the Ministry's own facilities for printing
and translating. These costs would be borne by the Government.
3.17     In comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the
existing customs duty, whichever is lower over the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports. Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and the proposed award of
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award decisions. It is
estimated that this review would cover about 85% of the value of all equipment
contracts (US$50 million equivalent). The remaining 15% of equipment
contracts would be subject to selective post award -reviews.
3.18     Technical Assistance.  To simplify management of technical
assistance, the MOE would obtain specialist services and fellowships as
comprehensive TA contracts.  At least three training institutions would be
requested to submit proposals, following a shortlisting of institutions
acceptable to the Bank. The consultants would be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency." During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that by March 31, 1986, consultants would be employed and
arrangements would be made for fellowship training for the proposed project in
accordance with Schedule I.
3.19     Implementation Schedule.  The current country disbursement profile
(from date of Board presentation) is eight years. The proposed project would
be completed in about seven years (1985-92) in accordance with the
implementation schedule in Schedule II. The EMENA regional profile for
education projects is in excess of ten years, which is due to the early stage
(i.e. unacquired sites, no engineering work) at which education projects used
to be appraised. However, this project is in a state of preparation that
would permit timely implementation because: (a) construction of buildings (a
source of delay in the past) would be limited to minor refurbishment of
existing facilities and would not be financed by the Bank; (b) equipment lists
with bid specifications have been completed; and (c) the technical assistance
package has been fully defined, draft terms of reference are prepared, and
proposals are expected by September 1985. Project completior. would be June
30, 1992 and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1992.
Disbursements
3.20     The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about seven
years (Schedule III)- Disbursements would be made against:



- 24 -
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment,
books, copyright and royalty payments and educational materials;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment, and
educational materials;
(c) 65% of the cost of locally procured items of equipment; and
(d) 100% of the foreign cost of foreign consultant services and overseas
fellowships or 85% of the total cost of locally hired consultants.
The disbursement percentage for local consultants is calculated to be
approximately equivalent to the percentage resulting from covering
the foreign exchange costs of foreign consultancy contracts.
Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place on an average
of about ten months after incurring the expenditure. A disbursement schedule
and profile, reflecting this and making a comparison with a regional profile,
are shown in Schedule III. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1992. Disbursements against contracts for goods and services
exceeding US$10,000 equivalent for foreign contracts and US$20,000 for local
contracts would be made against normal documentation. Disbursements against
contracts below that level would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures available for examination by Bank missions. To facilitate timely
project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and,conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in the
Central Bank of Turkey, -to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit,
equivalent to about US$2.0 million. The Special Account would be replenished
against monthly withdrawal applications as appropriate when the undisbursed
balance of the account falls below an amount equal to 50% or less of the
amount of the Special Account.   Withdrawal applications would be supported by
appropriate documentation.
3.21     Accounts and Audits.  The PIU would maintain separate accounts for
the project and would prepare, at the end of each quarter, a detailed
statement of project expenditures during the period (in an agreed format).
Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, the PIU would submit copies of
these statements to the Bank to facilitate supervision of the procurement
process. Project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.20) would be
audited in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The Bank will be provided within
six months of the end of each fiscal year with an audit report of such scope
and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by
the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenses. The
Government provided assurances to this effect during negotiations.



- 25 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The main benefits of the proposed project can be summarized as
follows:
Quality of Training. The proposed project would directly improve the quality
of training of the 16,160 students to be enrolled in specializations supported
under the proposed 39 project schools which are to be equipped and re-equipped
and, indirectly, the training of all trainees (some 142,000 in 1983/84)
through: improved curricula; a higher proportion of time spent on trades
training through a shortened teaching week; a systematic application of the
SAC and TAC system over all schools; improved reference technical textbooks;
and an upgraded in-service teacher training program for instructors.
Manpower Supply. The proposed project will add some 2,460 graduates to the
annual supply of skilled workers and junior technicians. These graduates will
ameliorate the identified shortage of skilled manpower in the trades supported
under the project, particularly in manufacturing and exporting industries.
New Trades. Through the project four trades new to the industrial schools
program will be introduced in skill areas which will assist the manufacturing
and exporting sectors (pneumatics and hydraulics, telepommunications, control
and instrumentation, and marine electronics), and through the provision of
equipment, training in trades (machine tools and CNCM, dyeing and textiles,
and computer sciences) will be introduced to industrial schools presently
without equipment.
Equity.  The proposed project would improve access to training and hence
employment of three disadvantaged groups: those of lower income levels;
populations in regions with a relative lauk of training facilities; and
women. The industrial schools tend to recruit trainees from relatively low
income groups; the location of the proposed schools includes outlying
provinces in the east and southeastern of the country, which have experienced
a relative under-investment in training facilities; the participation of women
in the training program of the industrial schools would increase to 12Z of
enrollment from the current level of 4Z.
Institution Building. The ability of the staff of the DTVE and industrial
schools to oversee and administer the development of the entire industrial
schools system would be improved through staff training.  This would increase
the effectiveness of subsequent investment in, and development of, the entire
MOE vocational training system.
Utilization. Through the provision of training equipment to industrial
schools presently without suitable equipment, the project would improve the
utilization and the economic return on existing facilities currently
under-utilized for lack of equipment.



- 26 -
Upgrading of the Industrial School System. The project supports the
Government's program to upgrade the industrial schools and includes
feasibility studies for future program development and a study of cost control
and recovery. This study would assist the maintenance of the financial
viability of the industrial schools.
Risks
4.02     There are no particular risks associated with the proposed project.
In order to ensure that quality is maintained in the industrial schools
program, Schools Advisory Committees and Trade Advisory Committees would be
formed (para. 2.09), special attention would be given to the in-service
training of instructors (para. 2.19), throughout the project life key
indicators of performance would be monitored (para. 2.14), and a follow-up
study of graduates would be undertaken (para. 2.06). From the perspective of
project implementation, the Government has established a PIU and appointed a
well qualified director (para. 3.09). Early preparation work undertaken by
the PIU has been of a high standard, and project implementation is well
advanced for a project at this stage (para. 3.19).



- 27 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the Government and the MOE provided assurances
that:
:a) by December 31, 1989, the DTVE would complete an employment follow-up
study of graduates (para. 2.06);
(b) (i) Sclhool Advisory Committess (SACs) would be established by
September 30, 1986 at all industrial schools and would meet at least
annually; (ii) all SACs would include industrial representation; and
(iii) Trade Advisory Committess (TACs) would be formed for new trade
specializations included in the proposed project by September 30,
1986 with industrial representation and would meet at least annually
(para. 2.09);
(c)  the Project Implementation Unit would be maintained with staffing and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.09);
(d)  by March 31, 1986, consultants would be employed and arrangements
would be made for fellowship training for the proposed project in
accordance with Schedule I (para. 3.18); and
Ce)  project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audiped
annually by the Auditor General's Office and audited accounts would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
a certified statement of expenses (para. 3.21).
5.C'     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$57.7 million to the Republic of Turkey for a term
of 17 years including a grace period of four years.
1961V



N
N
I1.



- 29 -
WrAUVWX OWATION TWICATORS-.
Cgwf"L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f. 
OW 300*120   53053MM          aDUT               MaiN nm               OMaWIT OM    wcuuuImI
CUFFPM               AS FmmsW        ipmnuun  LISSRAC  puDma!RDU PRISE                 AK06*   RmINurA   maim MM    SucosMaa 53C0NDART 52023*
ass  10w.  OfiTrA  935c1NT OM TOMT EAL 037*.*LLOCai  To, maTm              0XIOLL. .303.       siutaur  moaIne  mRDAne  TO  Cmat.   siwoun   IMMcL.
iM paL nuS. CUMs)   DVOTIMD7 TO cYmumus          I     sac  Kr    (I)    mATIO   assL         vm         AS rEamEr sucomh         RATIO     PM         mATIO
(*979) (1911)   10aCAT01  sraiiusz                (13       (1976)   (1)         (1)      MaCgM  GIn/CAflU          (3)        (1)      150Dm        (2)
r                 Ci~~~()  I(2)       (3)           ('1           (5)       I(6)         (7)       (a)        (9)        (20)   I     (iI)        ( 12)      (23)    (34l)
AUSTRAIA  Fo 14.6b .870        .32        aa.m           -    -        -         1a3'      also        21        -             9           73        23       20.90
CANAD              ma    Z3.7  ,,as0h    7.48           zfl.5'      30l8? 3sn 25'?   996        1068     Ian         zj        iw.w.v       zoo          o         is       22.A0%
CUrA6M  F.m.       79    12.2  32,300       4.6          9.9.       -    -    -        996       as      toe         -         -            sow.          "A'      -        12.208
N3TiSg.Asfl        79    36.0  10,690       7.9          5.3        20   55   25       ,9T      96        95         is        15 3          99          52        I3       12.40
NMI ZnAsA          so      3.zb  6.0r61     S.' a- 3.a              37   3a    8       qgb     :m0       am          24        Ia..         300          02       I35       25.410k
SW=DM              79      Sd3  12,250      9.0         30.2        31   10  I30       gob      998      too         15'       19.9         too          798       10cy    34.5087
EASiThl AFIRICAL
BOIMASA            12      3.06    75fl6    -           -           49  2631           Gab      as        0          32        23.1          26           -        21        -
1551551            B1      4.2     235      2.1562      29.0        43   23   27       23       398       35         37        20.2          32           38       37        1.~00
comms          m*     0434     26      6.5Su       25.4        40   25b  34       -         "9a      65         as        16.0          55         2nu        30        a.40
OJIUSIT            66      0.4     4ao      3.0         za.9        73   26   ...    ac         £3        6          40        67.0          S0          La        19        0.60a
eThopIa            8i    32.46   wb 1       :1  . op    35.7        45   25   20       ii       42        308        63        n1.j          in.         a'        44        0.45
KENA               32    17.4b    4200    3.1'          3a.3b       as   1    -        4*h      113       so         36        14.6          31          as        zi        --
LiSMO              32      j 46    435b    S.sI       . 16.9        35   32   26       536      ajax      43         AS         6.6          AG          22        22        1.30
MM884CA5C6         77      5.5      330     4.9'        26.0        S3   25   19       s0       9462      33         556        5.0          38          2 4       23        3.30h?
K4aAWT             91      6.2 lb  2306    3.1           23.6       35   146  25       256       12       23         65         5.6          22           4        23        0.40
KAORMVS       53      t.ob  1.370b    4.3           4.0        46   36    7       Bob      93        72         23        23.0         300          so        22        1.00
BREAND             13      556h   2606    2.7           24.5        72   16   12       576       6        62         40        33.0          in           7        14        0.60
SETCRELLS          19      0.6   1.170      3.9         22.4        348  338  t0       -         -                   25        ---                                  -        -
SOMALIA            a1      4.1     250      3.5         10.3        job  a4b   46    sob        22b       6n         296        9.06         6o          126       22        3.00
SUDAN              so    29.26    3aab    s.0           -           61   39   ...    52          SIAM     66         34         1.4     4                16        lob      ..
SAZILASD           83      0.76,   9406    3.Apb        20.4        S1   34   is       ash      i3        so         33        I1.O          of          29        in        3.420
TAIZ4NZA           s0    23.3      260      3.9         37.7        47   10   16       796      966       By         43        13.0          256          3        208       0.30
UGANDA             to    12.6b    3(206    --           16.1'       236 376 206         8        S4"      61         34        -             [7           5        23        0.60
ZAIRE              03    29.46    210b    7.7           26.4        -    -    g0       g6b       76       25         343       21.0          '0          29        28        2.00
ZAMZA         so      576    5666    a.wp          tz.a        4m   23   22       "h        95       to         AG        12.9          39          1a        22        3.10
lDIAMas            sa      7:7b    7006    3.2          19.5        62   32    a       &4       90        53         3         20.0          as          35        23        0.30
WESTERN AFRICA
SWIM               19      3.4b   '320b    *.5'         35.0        43   23    S    I16         42        30         46        14.0          30          at        as        2.001
lOUKIS             55      6.5     2106    2.1'         21.7        43   29   23      9         36        25         57        24.3          16           5        24       0413
CAitOM             15      3.2      590     2.9y        16.07       338  438  208   -           747       438        507        248          208         147      216        a.507
C.A.R.             19  2.2  280  3.499    20.6'?   -  --   -                                    -         -          6387       -   -                    -         -         o.7e.t'
CHAD0              76      4.4      320     3.4b'?      21.76         ~-            - 15        257       -          77        -              -           38      '23        0.20?
CONG0              78   2.5   670   9.08W   27.787   -   -  -   -                               -         -          n6bp                    3 -                   4367   4.4387
GABON              77      0.6   3.4.20     3.17b        90.47                        -         -         -           Abby     -             -           -         3967      2.80`7
CAMLUA             77      0.6      220i    3.30W        6.56b      46   258   6'   106         40b7      908        2767      44.78         60          12b-      I7        -
CR184              16    31.3      400      4.07Y       25.56       -    -    -       -         71627    -           3767      -             -           566217    21        --
C1313I3            79      5.3     290P    4.68V        -           238 236 25820                34       36         36        n0.0.'        AS          16        29        7.008
IVOtRY ODAT        S3     3.26  1.070b   10.0           45.0        33  4-6  23    306          60        as         43        26.0          47          a5.'    26          a.9087
LIBEIA             an      1.9      320     4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30          52        32         35        20.03         76          22        20        2.*"
M4an               SI      7.06    390      4.28        21.7'       36   fl   23    10          20        60         46        25.7          66I                   31        0.9087
M33331ANIA         73      1.46    3206    5.11         16.9        33   43   25    376          12       60         44        52.0          30           9        25        0.37
241G33             13      5.2     300      4.3         2.6'?       528  45'   34    8           27       56'        418       3R.78         40           2        Z4k       n.207
NItIA             77  62.6  91.1  4.27                  9.6        -  -  -   -                 -         -          -         -             -           an.?   25    o.t7Y
SENCAL.            77      5.5     450      3.0         23.0        46   34  20       30        34687    -           4367      -             20          t0        21        2.20b?
SHIlL LIONS        77      3.4     250      *.36        16.06                  -      356       378       -          35        25.06          2          258       22       o.606w
TOGO          73      2.4     400      6.39'       26.59       308  28' 23'   If           74        40         3467      36.0          52          32ba7    *56        1.6067y
LATNk AMUSICA AND PMl CARI 3836
AN.Ci3lTIA         15    27.3   2,210       2.7         20.9        4.3'  318  38'  936         ow        52         37        -             87          33         S       23.00
56A*A4AS           79      0.2   2,770      5.7         39.1        36   36   IL    936         99        97         26        -             97          73        to      -
35A8400            78    0).2   2.600       3.38?       22A.1       43'  318  16'   99b        2007       998        27T       39.98         998         767       201     -
SOLIVIA            s0      5.4     550      4.3'?       30.58       -   - -6         63         747       -          207       -             -           227       -        12.6W
BmAZIL             19   316.5   2,770       3.8          4.2        51   -    34    76          7387      -          23"y       &.Sb         61'         is"7      3687    a2.626
Cpr212.            16    20.9   1,890       3.2b7       13.06b      -    -    -      -         ligbwr    -           zabv      -             -           3g6sy    206'    :i.4a,7
COLINUZ.A          so    26.76  2.130b    3.3           25.0        33   20   20    gjb         73        36         32         4.6          -           47        20       z0.0287
COST& sicak        s0      2.26  j.gtnb    *.&          32.3        40   27   33    90          93        77         33         3.5          77          40        21       14.00
co"a               78      9.0     -        3.0         32.0        -     -     -    96        312687    9m          l36y      -             in          73687    Is        1941267
DKINUmCAS UP.    U0        5.3   1,030      2.9         13.0        36   21   22    *6g         n0        31         59         3.2          94          30        55       la.00
ECaA0*             60      8.4b  3.330      4.OW        36.7        45   31   16   ft          205        -          36        az.o          A6          47        26      29.00
EL SaLVAD0OR       77      4.4     640      3.s67       23.267      64    5   27    62          92687    32          39        -             4l          3*b'?    2767       7.9067
CUATUIAZA          75      6.5   2.020,    1.787        22.66       -    -    --       -.       &*968     -          3367      -             69          15bs7    1967       s*307
CUlAN              76      0.5     6y)      5.367       13.367               - -    -  -          hny    -           32b7      -             -           59b687    -         341067v
MaITI              so      s.Ob    23o      3.a.         7.9'?      63    in   *    z56         so        20         42        19.0          62'          4-       27       0380
HONDURAS           15      3.6      520     3.3b7       14.367      638    25   lea   40        59687    308         4[h?      12.5'         668         2a87      29       8.007
JAMAICA            s0      2.1   3.110      6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90          9         of9                   Z .3         95          RI        22        9410
HUlac              a0    65.5   2.550       4.7         17.0'       4.6  39   15    92          96        33         46         9.5          66          36        27       20.30
flICA.IMA          JR      2.66   4106    s1.0b,        [4.06       -     -     -    ,ob        p56x      24         3*b       -             -           j668      3n6     -
Pamsg              78      3.8b  1.s5Ce    .5,56'       23.567      428  £38  23    336         9567      -          35b7      aa.6          638         5067      276?    7f,4067
PoICMA?             5      3.0   2.44'      34  1        4.2la      42   17   20    64          63        32         28         3.1r         76          22        22       0.70
raw0               s0    21.6:   2.0001    3.4b         14.31b      53   125  19    50           3        56         39         9.           59g3                  23       £4.AM
7R3N104D4,1MR.   77        21    3,910      4,57         a.6        46   32   20    95          95        93         30        10.5?         49          62        24      -
UNina              75      2.9   2,500      2.5          q.A6                        94        aDsbu      -          lab                                 6 946     -       [17.04'
VUEflJUA      ~~~78       at.   3.440  5.17        za.9b       -    -    -       52       i06h*       -          5    -                             3363      27      za.30?



- 30 -
fuse 2
Can
maurm   maa.cuwunms                                                  zam
a. wmacna   uaChuum!                  am.:mr vi                     UNI DUS   vwauusi
ASM    POP. CAPITA  IPRUI!  S  TOTM  auRAL MALLOCI  Thu IITU            SMALL. 30001        UTUURT  UDUCTIa   PIRIMAL  S  ENOL.  UTVEC    ZIL.
Tug tina. (aM)   a        =o   s2 Owurna        ml  Ue UK    (Z)    tAna   aLM              Mi       AS rem=0   IcoNUAw     Kano        PE        LATo
(1979) (1979)   mATU.   1UIMrU                  CZ)       (2976)   (Z)       (C)      TnASER  OwPeICAP         (2)         CZ)  sLCE           (E)
(1)     (2)       (3)           (4)           (3)      I(6)        (7)       (4)       (9)        (10)        (1t)        (12)       (13)    (14)
W EIA Apo To 1MI,OD.011 3106    3.1                    7.1        M  40   22       77b       77 T      2         23        6.0          is         33        17       4.40
ZiDUEsIA          61   130.5    120       2.1          9a        70   24    4      36b       11       4          37 1D.0               74          27        24       3.70
Km1               62   "3.36  146          7.7'       20.6        34   34   31     t4        99       96         43      129.0         96                    3       21.40
NIASI6A           64        2 I j3:2b  2.6706   53    22.1        39l  "4   17'   70b        97u      97         26       13.3         90          72        22       4.00
PAUA NA.          63      3.0m    620     3.4         19.0       40   17   22      -         *0       73Y        313      13.0          33         13-       27'      1.00
IEUJWISB          79    436J3     wo      2.6'        14.0       64   36   -       76b        4       63         31        7.1          at         55        Y       21.00
S*uW              -       2.4   4.420     2.7          6.7        39 40    16      63        92       62         31        4.          9o          55        n        6.00
i toss IUz.       i2      o.2b    40      6.11        19.0%      41   34   20       s        73       60         27       1.3          40          20        23       2.O
731J             sO    47.3b    7D3b    3.4          20.9        St   15  13      b6b       94       -          17        9.           39         29        22       4.00
SU M            * 79    62.3b      t0      I.Jp       10.1U7     51   17   20      J2b       632      -          33       S3           -           14        23       2.3
SlUA              s0  1.2  g0  3.6   11.0   ---   20    2   -    -    -                                                                -           -    -   -
SI0A              77   433.0    210       2.97         9.1'      -     _    _      36        73       -          4*1      -            -           2:6      -         4.3'11
IIPAL             62    15.0k   1a0b    1.4          -           -     -I39                  70       -          n        -            -           22        23       3.70B
AIrE              62    67.16    31Ob    2.0           7.0       36   20   24      22        30       41         30        3.9          36         21        13       3.00
ntOUt. wI      LAST AND  Os An'CA
Af  - lK6NI U     77    It.,      -        1.7         3.7       47   19 15       12        IIby     69         37b      -             42          a        22i    111A
42511L            79    13e    2.770      3.6        12.3        34' 2GL 21'   33           833      438        37        7.0?         338        29        a        3.70?
oWn"              62    43.3      630'   6.6'          7.9       312  35'  266   44          731      30'        3*        9.3         138         438       its     17.00
76     94:  4.140       2.P        to.6b       3    26   21     -         97b7     -          29b       6.2?         -          771W      276     17JO96
2A                79    34.9      -       3.7W        14.13'     -    -     -      so       101"x     -          32'      -            -           44"      24'       4.90x
v3*4              79    12.6   2.710      4.3'J          .a7     -    -     -      -        1001      -          n        -            -           43'7     29'       3JOV
ZEEJI             81      3.4b 4.40       6.3'?       11.3'?     -   -      -      96       93        94         29       -            93          61       14       21.n0
JORDAN            a2      2.2b  1IJ20b    4.9         10.2        Lg   as   1      70b      2o0n      aS         32        7.2         91          52'      25       29.00
LEIAII            79   2.3   -    -                   16.6"   - - -    -  -6'   -                                19    -               -           41'   -    27.00'
IUECCO            so    19.3      740     6.31        17.3Y      36   44   20      26        36'?    35          39       20.7         40          23Y      21        4J.5
on.               02      0.9b  5.720b    2.38        12.7'      -     -        -  Nb?       712      65         23       -            6           11        14
IRTICA            79      9hb  2.060      2.4         22.2       50   26   11      78        97       20         19"      122.         alp         A3K       172 79    .30
30MA1A            76    22.1   2 100      3.9Y         6.27      -     -     -     96       2Obz     -          236      -            96          6Wbx      226     10.eoW
SPAIN             76    37.0  4.920       2.17        16.67      -    -    -       -        laby      -          29b      -            -            7673    -        24.106
STRIA             73      6.6   1.170     4.4P        10.3        39   25   26     34        6767     60         3gb      -             A          aibw      21k     I2.4WI
wutSia            79      6.4   1130      7.OP        29.0       42   39   is      42b      100L      s0         396      122.          30         300      30        4.O
KE?               33      47.5  1.230      3.3        16.2        30   22   24     736      130       77         31        6.0          35         26        11       4.00
.    A.I.         40      66      420     5.09'       12.0       94    7    7      21b       37       12'        36       47.0         A5           3       20        1.10
13  F.D.R.        32      2.Ob   4*2       7.6         9.7       63'  124    N'   53         61       34         25       22.0'         46         17       20        2.*0
suNam    vox nuvLOWn  couWmus.
dU_r of CouetrI,                       64              93      70    9   67    S6         92        68         95       43           75          91        U       as
swans                                   (1.-          (3.7-  (22-  (6-  (5-    (3-       (12-     (12-        (27-     (I. -10- (11           t(o-    (t.0-
20.0          34.3)  94)   46)  33)    H)        129)     99)         77)      470)          200)      84)       44)      29.0)
oQertlawa Upper                         5.36          22.7      33   36   22     32        96       60         43       20           37          47        26       I3n
bdlea,                       4.0           16.1     43   2    19      53       63        41        33        13           63          24       22       3.7
Loer,                        3.0           11.0     3   21 121    23           G         33        23        9            40          24       19       1.0
Qerttli Deyletear                        1.3           5.4    *.5  7.5  4.3   2a.        29.0     22.1        7.0      5.4         23.3        16.3      3.3        3.0
Nesis                                   4.4           17.0     46   26    4      33        7   T   59          36       26    1       2          31        23       6.9
Stedaird Desfltloes                      1.9           6.7      12   20    7     29        27       24         11       13           27          23        7        7.4
ells                                    4.0           16.2     432 3 19          53        32       62         33       13            a5         D         22       3.7
-    DaTUr MAaLAnL                                            A - DATUM PRIOC  TO Ifi Tl                           S -  IStiUT Or O CAoTI0  (MR) OiIL?
... UTODE NII CM MCLICILE                                b - DATUM M1M3 11c2  TEAJ  3613 T*                  7  - Mg APO STATE   USEEM oCLT
?  DaTUM QOEITIUIAI                                         N - dULST MICEE                                     t - PIIILIC Evm itM  DULY
*DCLD0   PAWT-TlE STUDETS                                P . CDrOP                                           X - I DL E  0953-AC3 3CIITS
* - ONE=  s1EC33
Cbl_mn  I and 2:  World leek Atls or t3D3 eloole4.
CcLs I to 14t  Sll  elafld s. oe       mownt ecurces, aAtor Uneeno Stattitical. lYearbok.
Ce_eratlw    le_CotIon Data .ere Wefel in the evaletln of arlone edeteosyseanBOA eXel  Sf rotat e  ta see of od ettloee* deeelodlet betwBenclsee
coeute .  Rs_r. - tbe bete of ike Prevent dajts  roneetestn   coerl_n ehevd be approaehed wIth Oreat cesutn. Daet prometed In the kewe  teale Goes
been colleted largeLy b6 rlek et.leele  free jtornem t eeurcee: the rainier ere cteft fetleete  er data tfr  UO_ee.  EJforte hew I_ee  edo to standardiae
deflttloee a_d.   cla lltes. co cheek te accereby or the date. cweahebree,  -- deta are 'till l_*erfect In .e.-ral rWepecta S. the lek In eeng to
1apre_ them pregreee lwip em the Occasie of Ito operetlees  nork. Ie the em of thee. date, the f_eIb      lwteu qeltfEleclooe  heeld he kept In 3   edi
(2)  'Edatlee *-    e ddl_d In the table Includ_ all  decatien and trelntin. be  thfoal ad ne-feforel.
(2)  Pnrzw     edemtion ree   to edacatlo   c the firet le_l a*d  e  usoeryl edcatl  rmfrs to all dneetlen at cthe se*en-ry leel regardles of ct_
(0.S.. general, tectcAl. yfnrlClctmrBIl.
(3)   Llcaracy eratas  (el. 6) ar  oftsn ebtdald free toeuntr, ceuniee.  In en  ceeeutrie thbe  are *r     ly apreiet1_lea ad it le debkfel that aey sotloe
dafletltee Df lltertec' be been felloed ceoeletectly.
(4)  'Public 'oemdlere in  tocetloe- (Colo. & aSd 3) rfere co al1 capital as recarrec awendItere devoed to adeattee by pehlc as qeaal-pebic
tanda.
35) Iorel1eent ratls- (teol. 7. 12 ad 14) refer to echel peer Bnd atr  tte eerietaie of elttbl-e chedree oerelled full-tem  Ie the appropriate   ceool.
Public and prIet. by levl.  may are ofte  eukieci to a wIde *ttln of 'mr Jn tne dewlonig eoetries See ing to varlatlona Xe tew ecerac  of b_elc
data (a age-pecitfIc peleltee and erellents)  Frollemnt fltere remue"nly erv  hibher then *th  odr of etdete actually In ectool. Ower-e_ed
etedcntoele  lcnel_otl  I ndicsced b6  teotoetm  aoe_ teeo lrata the rntie.



- 31 -
Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SChOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Enrollment, Number of Teachers, and
Number of Secondarv Schools by Type, L983/84
Number of                 Enrollment
Type                  Schools    Teachers      Total    Boys       Girls
General                         1,182       45,428    483,881   279,735  204,146
Industrial:
Three year program            312       10,365    133,183   128,172    5,011
Four year program a/          n.a          n.a      8,283      7,910      373
English medium program          4            4         96         89        7
Women's Vocational Programs        258       8,154     31,953        278   31,675
Commercial and Tourism            238        5.656     81.795    47,276   34,519
Total                           1.994       69.607    739,191   463,460  275,731
Note: a/ As there are no schools that offer only a four-year program, the
number of schools and the number of teachers involved in four-year
programs are shown under schools listed with three-year programs.
Source: Ministry of Education, Statistical Yearbook, 1983/84.
1 962V



-32-
Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ministry of Education
Actual and Budgetted Expenditure for
the Industrial Schools, 1981-89 (TL Million)
Type of                   Actual                              Budgetted
Expenditure 1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Investment   5,798   6,855   8,001   8,124   6,415   8,700  12,100  17,600  26,400
Recurrent   10,429  12.693  16,722  12.808  18,467  24.900  34.900  50,600  75.900
Total       16.227  19.548  24,723  20.932  24,882  33.600  47.000  68.200 102.300
Source:  Ministry of Education, Research, Planning and Coordination Office.
1962V



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS  ROJC,I
SlAFF APPRAISAL EPORT
Number of Places Re-Eauloed. Epuinoed. Total Enrollment. Total Additional Enrollment
and Estimated Additional Output from Proilet Suabortad Institutions
Total Enrollment   Total  Additional    Total Additional
Total Number of        In Project          Enrollment at          Output frau
No. of Places   No. of Places   Places Equipped            Supported         Project Supported          Project
5D_S] _ciation                       gRe-  auloned       touioned        A Re-EauIoned    Specializations           Institutions          Institutions
LiLsting tlades:
Electronics                                1,291            1,389               2,680               5.360                2,780                    790
Electrical                                 2.140            1,100               3,240               6.480                2,200                    620
Foundry                                       177             223                 400               1.200                  670                    190
Kachine tools and CNCM                          -             400                 400               1,200                 1,200                   340
Dyeing and textiles                             -              60                  60                  120                  120                    30
Printing                                       24              56                  80                 240                   170                    50
Computer science                                -              64                  64              ---50                  -A5 f4Q
Sub-Total                                       3,632           3,292               6,924               15,080                7,620                 2,160
New Trades;
Pneumatic% and hydraulics                       -             100                 1o0                 600                   600                   170
Teleconminicattons                                            120                 120                 240                   240                    70
Control and instrunentation                     -              20                   20                 120                  120                    30
Marine electronics                             IS A/           45                  60                  120                   90                    30
.,ub-Total                                         Is             RASi                 300                060                 1,050                    0
Total                                              47           357I                 7,i224            fi10
j/  Under tne proposed project, 15 places In marine electronics are re-equipped in a new laboratory.
Source: Staff Working Papers.
1962V



- 34 -
Annex 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Location of Proposed Industrial Schools
City                            School
1 Adana                       Adana
2 Adiyaman                    Adiyaman
3 Ankara                      Aktas
4 Ankara                      Balgat
5 Ankara                      Kirikkale
6 Ankara                      Yildirimbeyazit
7 Balikesir                   Balikesir lOO,Yil
8 Bursa                       Tophane
9 Diyarbakir                  Diyarbakir
10 Erzincan                    Erzincan
11 Erzurum                     Ataturk
12 Gaziantep                   Gaziantep II
13 Isparta                     Isparta
14 Istanbul                    Avcilar
15 Istanbul            -       Kucukkoy
16 Istanbul                    Ortakoy
17 Istanbul                    Sisli
18 Istanbul                    Tekstil
19 Istanbul                    Tuzla
20 Istanbul                    Umraniye
2-  Istanbul                   Zeytinburnu
22 Istanbul                    Yakacik
23 Izmir                       Buca
24 Kahramanmaras               Kahramanmaras
25 Kars                        Kars G.A.M.
26 Kocaeli                     Kocaeli Golcuk
27 Konya                       Konya
28 Malatya                     Malatya S K 0
29 Ordu                        Ordu
30 Samsun                      Merkez
31 Samsun                      Atakum
32 Sivas                       Sivas
33 Van                         Van
34 Yozgat                      Yozgat Yerkoy
35 Zonguldak                   Zonguldak
36 Ankara                      Yenimahalle
37 Istanbul                    Haydarpasa
38 Istanbul                    Macka
39 Izmir                       Cinarli
1962V



-35 -                                         Annex 6
TUIREY
INDUSTRIAL SNOOLS MRQJECT
Suumr Account by Project Comamt
(TURKISH LIR Million)
Physical
NDUSTRIAL CIRRICa IBtU P    TEXOOK    I!!WaTAL  STUDIIB AND                 Cantioncies
SCHOOLS      PROR1II      TRASLATION   RECUUENT  FUTURE PROJECT
FACILUTES  JELOPEBNT   AND PRODUCTION    COSTS        PREPARATION   Total     I   A: mut
1. DWES'EW COSTS
A. REFUIRISHENT iji FURNNTI              6                             -                            -     655  10.0    S6
B. EUPNT                              1,359              13             -            -              -  19,372  10.0  19U37
C. OKS Ng 7RPJISLATIS                                     -                          -              -   1,323  iiu.0    132
D. EOD L ASSISTANC
FELLLNIHIPS                             -            746              6           -              -     752  10.0      75
SPECIALISTS                             -            454             30           -            101     595  10.0      59
S&6-Tota1 TEOIIICaL ASSSTANHCE             -          1,199            37            -            101   1,336  10.0    134
E. INCREJEN.AL KEMN    COSTS              -              -              -          840             -      940  10.0      84
Total DFtESTIEffr COSTS                  19,01S          1,212          1,360        940            101  22,526  10.0  2,253
Total JASaIJIE COSTS                      19.015          1,212         1,360         s40            101  229526  10.0  29253
Pbasical Cntiruercies                   1,901            121            136          84             10   2,253   0.0       0
Price Cootin*ncies                      4,768            167           351          459              9   5,755   9.1    523
Total PROJECT COSTS                       25,685          1,5D0         1,847        1,393           120  30,534   9.1  2,776
Foreisn Exshande                       22.134          1,367           S29           -             102  24,233   9.1  2v203
APril 15s IM   15:35



- 36 -
Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
I2NDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost Per Student
Costs in US$ (mid 1983 prices) Per Student
Furniture         Equipment          Total
Industrial schools                        96               2,604           2,700
Bank wide experience for
(81-83) compazable facilities: a/
First decile                         757               3,688           4,445
Fifth decile                         307               1,063           1,370
Ninth decile                         152                 342             494
a/ Source: Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in Education Projects, World
Bank (Nove.ber 1983), Secondary Technical/Vocational and Agricultural
Institutions.
1962V



- 37 -
Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents Available in Proiect File
A. Reports and studies relating to the country:
IBRD. Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy Report (February 1982).
IBRD. Turkey - Data Information System (memorandum dated November 1, 1984).
State Planning Organization. Fifth Five-Year Plan (1985-89).
B.  Reports and studies relating to education and training:
IBRD. Sector Memorandum on Industrial and Vocational Training (May 1983).
MOE. 1983/84 Educational Yearbook (Ankara, 1984).
C.  Reports and studies relating to the Project:
MOE. Proposed Project Document (Ankara, September 1984).
MOE. Equipment Specification List.
EMPED: Selected Staff Working Papers:
1.    Bid packages for trade specializations
2.    Educational worksheets
3.    Specializations and number of places supported by school
4.    Detailed prGlject costings
5.    Budget data, 1981-91
6.    Manpower projects, 1985-95
7.    Terms of reference for technical assistance
1962V



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance
S oe c i a l   s ts                                                            F a e   1 o    w s h 1 D s
Total                                                                       Total
Man     Man    Beginnino                                                    Man      Man    Beginning
Descrigtion               Number  Months  Months       Date               Descrition                 Number  Months  Months    Date
Curricula and Proaram Development
Electronics, marine                                                      Air conditioning ) 80                 5       10      50
electronics and                                                        Refrigeration
telecommunications               1      24      24       01/87         Electronics                          12       10     120     07/86
Pneumatics and Industrial                                                Electrical                            8       10      80     07/86
hydraulics                       1      12       12      01/87         Machine tools & CNCM                 10        7      70     07/86
Machine tools & CNCH               1      12       12      01/87         Computer science                     10        6      60      07/86
Control and instrumentation        1      12       12      01/87         oyeing                                2       10      20      07/86
Computer sc1lnce                   1       6      .1       07/86         Foundry                              12 l0           -2       07/86
Sub-Total                                                                Sub-Total                            44              370
Telecommunications                    6       10      60     07/86
Pneumatics and hydraulics            20      10      200     07/86
Control and instrumentation           3       10      30     07/86
Marine electronics                   _Z      10 l     20     07/86
Sub-Total                            31              310     07/86
Curriculum development                1       6       _..A   07/86
76             686
Textbgoks
Textbook publication               1       6        A      01/87         Textbook design and printing          1        6        i    07/86
Proiect Manaaement
Project management                 1      24      24       01/86         ProJect management                    3        2       6      01/88
and
01/89
Equipment planning                    2        3       6     01/86
Schools management                    4        3      12     07/86
24
Feasibility and Proiect Studies
Schools computer aided learning   )                        01/87         Textiles                              2       10      20
New program development             )                      07/86         Foundry                               2       10      20
Couinrcial schools training         )             2Q       07/86
Adult training                      )                      07/86
Cost control and recovery           )                      07/36
1962V
H
UZ



INUSTR FUCALS T
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Imolementatlon Schedule
.1-------------------------------F                                               R33A      ---  --------------  ------------------
2                 1i--j.. 1   I                      4 1 2 4                 1 .2 J  4 ....I                                      - -  ;-1-i i
itcLanaaiM3nL
Establish Project Hanagement System               ...                  . ... ... _   _   
&uildinu *nd _urntL re:
Refurbish existing buildiiigs            .     . , .B  B. ... a.. a.. .. , , ...
Provision of furniture                            ..     .       .. ... ...   a ..e...       aBa  ..
Preparation oF equipm ent lists
Preparation oF bid specifications
Preparation or docusnnts                                             a.*eeB
Invitation to bid                                                 . ..
liddingo and evaluation                                                             a   .  a    I   a   B   a
Manufacture and delivery                                         t.*                                    .  no ... . ..a ...      ... ...  ...  G .          . .. .. ,B. I.,
Installation and cofmnissioning                                                                           BBSa  OkA4     aBSBBS    A SB   AS.*B  . BB    ..MM . .BS**  a    .B BBS .IB  BG.  S44                                La
Guarantee period                                                                                                                ...... ...... .... ..                                                      a ...
Technial Books:
Acquisition                                   . . . .. ..                                . ... ., ,
Copyright negotiations                                                                           B4a I.. as. a..S aN. a..M 0  ..
Translation                                                                                        .      a      .       ...   . .        . a  ..a  . a.. a.. . . ., ... .. .
Reproduction                                                                                                        ... ... ...  .. a..  .... .... .... ... ... ... ... . .... .                             .
TsCbnicl AI&IsatnlI
Preparation of terms of reference                          B.. ...
Preparation of bidding documents                                     .. ,
Bidding. evaluation, award                                                    ...
Specialist services                                                                     BB   S   a   I   B   B   a   B   B   B               a
fellowship training                                                                                             G          .           .
.    2   31 4          1    2   1  _ 1   2 I I  1   24 1   2 1                          4 1 1  1 2  1 3  1  4 1                                       I   1 2 1 A I I
1984              19{85       1      1986        1      1987       if      19oX     _        o1_ _               1   L =            19                 99
Loan $JgnJnq* .Lune 1911                                                                       eriet Cemoletlon: June 1992
C11sinL pat3JDecffHbIrm199
1962V 
PI
M
M



- 40 -
Schedule III
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements          Disbursement Profile a/
Regional
This       Average in
IBRD Fiscal                 Semester    Cumulative      Project    Education b/
Year and Semester             --US$ Millions--                      X       --
1986
First                       2.0          2.0             3.5          0.1
Second                      0.5          2.5             4.3          0.7
1987
First                       0.5          3.0             5.2          1.9
Second                      1.0          4.0             6.9          3.8
1988
First                       1.8          5.8            10.1          6.8
Second                      2.4          8.2            14.2         10.8
1989
First                       3.0         11.2           .19.4         16.0
Second                      4.0         15.2            26.3         22.3
1990
First                       5.0         20.2            35.0         29.5
Second                      6.0         26.2            45.4         37.3
1991
First                       7.0         33.2            57.5         45.4
Second                      7.0         40.2            69.7         53.6
1992
First                       6.5         46.7            80.9         61.5
Second                      6.0         51.7            91.3         69.2
1993
First                       5.0         57.7           100.0         76.4
Loan Amount                                 57.7
a/  The profile shows cumlative disbursements in percentages.
b/  The profile was constructed using historical data from 34 proiects during
the period FY71-81, accelerated by 5% to eliminate "long tails." The
disbursement profile of this project is about three years shorter than the
EMENA regional education profile, and one year shorter than the profile
for all Bank projects in Turkey because the project is at a relatively
advanced state of implementation.
1962V



- 41 -
Schedule IV
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plan
Item                                                    Target Date
Project Implementation Unit
1.  Appointment of remaining staff                      September 30, 1985
Technical Assistance
1.  TA package sent to Bank for approval                June 30, 1985
2. Short List of Selected Bidders sent to Bank
for approval                                      September 30, 1985
3. Invitations to submit proposals from approved
companies/institutions issued by PIU              October 30, 1985
4.  Contracts awarded for TA                            December 31, 1985
5.  Draft TA Contract to Bank for approval              January 30, 1986
6.  TA Contract signed                                  March 31, 1986
7. Target Completion Date for all TA                    June 30, 1989
Equipment
i. Finalization of equipment lists forwarded to
Bank for review                                   June 30, 1985
2.  Preparation of bid specifications                   September 30, 1985
3.  Bid documents forwarded for Bank review             December 31, 1985
4.  Completion of bid invitations                       December 31, 1986
5.  Completion of bidding and bid evaluation            June 30, 1987
6.  Manufacture and delivery completed                  June 30, 1990
7.  Installation and commissioning                      June 30, 1991



- 42 -
Schedule IV
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plan
Refurbishment and Furniture for Existing Buildings
1.  Completed                                            September 30, 1986
Technical Books
1.  Acquisition of textbooks                             June 30, 1987
2.  Copyright registration                               September 30, 1988
3.  Translations                                         June 30, 1990
4. Reproduction                                          June 30, 1992
1962V



REPUILIC OF TUqWEY
IXNDUSTRAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INhISTRY OF IDUCATIOQ
11roani2ation Chart
1-------------------------------------1Minister of Education------------------------------------------
National Education                                                                        Technical and       Youth and Service
Com,ission                                                                             Vocati0nal              Comisston
Education
Cumiession
Schools       Legal       National        Research
Inspectorate                 Board of         Planning
Education         and
Coordination
-------------------------------------------------D E P A R T M E N T S--------------------------------------------
Personnel                   Financial                           Technical                          Youth and                 General
and Vocational                         Sports
Educational
1-------------------------------- ---°1 r LI c t o r a t i s ----------- ---------------------------
Investment  establishment.            Technical and                 Education aids,             Sports and physical         General secondary
and building services (DIEBS)         vocational (OTVE)             materials and               education                   schools
- Accounts and adtntstratton          Project Imple-                equipment (DEAHE)                                       Primary schools
- Health                              mentation Unit (PIU)                                                                  Overseas education
- Publications                        - Apprenticeship and                                                                  Special and
- Data processing                       non-formal training                                                                 handicapped
- Cosmercial and tour-                                                               schools
ism schools                                                                        Religious schools
- Girls technical and                                                                Private schools
vocational education                                                               Relations with Y&K
- Revolving funds
Inservico training
1962v



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
Staff Approlsol Report
Main Structure of the Education System, 1983/84
PRIMARY                        LOWER SECONDARY                   UPPIR SECONDARY                               POSI SECONDARY
Genetol                                      etUrweiity
_xhr _l nsucrreoce & Instuc
A tL _, vCOM C1                                                                                                        Traningoiinstitute
Technical Ifacrfmng
GhMs Vacol oncol                  Institute
LIndusIrial Schools
Note ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AoI OA-71
Progromn duration vo_|es                                                  PttXtrcol frode SChoos|
frcrn 3J4 ve* Apprenthceship Progforfrn                                                                                                            Engineers etc
Progtram duration vcnes                                                   Evemnin Closse
fromn 2-3 vems                                                           _                                                                     --rochot & Instrucf(as
A fourth yea is mmaUe be                                                          SkilbedorWker  V-                                                 I  
fra oored stuclents                                                              A  I Jniaf lochnicon  r                                             senis technicians
L                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~JOB MARKETI 
Wr,ADE   1      2       3      4      5            0        7     a                  9       10     11i                    12     `13    14             15
AGE   6       7      a       9      tg         I11       12     1 3               1 4     15      16                     1 7     1 8    1 9           20
WosVaiElank^- 27110
Ai
u
1a



25-                                                      30-                                                     5
B U L G A R I A                                                                                                                 a-Cj
E irn   irklarelir~~~~~~~~~~                                l~nebohu       Sinop
Zonguldak        BrtnKr 
Cayu  Kastamonu                 '~~~~.Samsun
Karasu   Ere i iam
-Bondlrma           Kocom       Duan kri
-;Cnakkal
r         ileceik                                                                           Toh 
Edremit        lkesir                     E ki§ehir
Kirikkl
ui~~ Izrhrehirer
0                 Mersin~~~~~~~~~~~ye
AnBmur                S
--~~A   /7  ,F- ,  r /7.2               -;  ,f  ,,  ;,
CYPRUS AmR
TURKEY                                                                                   - 
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
L    INDUSTRIAL ZCIIOOLS
-   ROAD5
.,8-RAILROADS
-RIVERSI
*    NATIONAt CAPITAL
- -- INTERNATIONAL BOUJNDARIES
30*                                                             35*
/                                                         I~~~~~~wa



IBRD 18811
40'
S  o a
U.  S. S. R.
Hopa
,     Sam!sun                               
A4rI~~~~~
vV j . cD <s A~~~~~~~~ISLAMI
fJ\ /BIng-l    -               (        REPUBLIC
Mus  z.tvan          van   MlcRAN
k   iF  *Pdiyomon       / Mardin C-z- e 
n ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~  
Antakya  S~~~~~~~~a y
Adiym '00                                     200          300
KItLOM^ETERS
S Y R IAN                                                                                        s
'T? en~ hu  r, WDV~IIUd r_y Theb ama i abi rrinw~ H* 'u d_rwck rvi
!   A D A n                           w    > _3t§Ian tep
A  R.                                    A B  FQCV   u_d d  b_           o 
|  R E P U B L I C                    C"               r          d 0d I  I    I
o POLAND;j
SiY R IAN L                                                      s        R.
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .                           }                                       ,
^ _  ROMIANIA t--P      -       -.                           --
r  t> < z"l^-              __        ,         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   4
GREXCE   3T UR K EY                        S.  ISLAMIC
-   -   <_                                        \ REPUBLIC  E P U 11 L I C
CRETE     CYPRUS       SREPULI   RI
MARCH 1 98S






