Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15386
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2536-TU)
FEBRUARY 21, 1996
EC1/2HR
Human Resources Sector Operating Division
Central and Sourthern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal:   100TL          =      US$0.238
US$1           =       420TL
At Completion  10,OOOTL        =      US$0.337
US$I           =       29,609TL
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORD           Center for Occupational Research and Development
CNCM           Computerized Numerically Controlled Machines
DTVE           Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education
ECI            Europe and Central Asia Region, Department I
ECI/2HR        Human Resources Division for EC Departments land 2
GDVTE          General Directorate of Vocational and Technical Education
GOVT           Republic of Turkey
IBRD           The World Bank
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ILO            International Labour Organization
ISP            Industrial Schools Project
MONE           Ministry of National Education
METARGEM    Vocational Education Research and Development Center
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PRITT          Project Research and In-service Teacher Training
RMT            World Bank Resident Mission Turkey
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
USATDP         United States Technical Development Program
VTET           Vocational and Technical Education



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT
[LOAN 2536-TU]
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ........      .................. 1
B. Achievement of Objectives .....................................  2
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ........        ................. 2
D. Project Sustainability .....................................                         7
E. Bank Performance .....................................                              7
F. Borrower Performance ...................................... 8
G. Assessment of Outcome  .....................................   8
H. Future Operations ...................................... 9
I. Key Lessons Learned ...................................... 9
PART I1. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Appraised and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A
Borrower's Evaluation Report: Conclusions and Recommendations
MAP:
IBRD#27630
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihhout World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT (LOAN 2536-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Schools Project
in Turkey, for which Loan 2536-TU in the amount of US$57.7 Million equivalent was
approved on May 29, 1985, and made effective on July 19, 1985.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994, after two one-year extensions from the
original closing date of December 31, 1992. Final disbursement took place on April 25,
1995, at which time a balance of US$1.98 Million was cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by Patricia Kleysteuber, Task Manager (EC1/2HR), with the
support of Judith De Costa (EC1/2HR). Ferda Sahmali (RMT) and Darrell Hull, (Curriculum
Development Consultant) prepared background reports which are available in the
ECA Files. The ICR was reviewed by Ralph W. Harbison, Division Chief, EC1/2HR, and
Spyros Margetis, Acting Projects Adviser, ECL.
This ICR is also based on the results of a Completion Mission in February 1995, visits
to a representative sample of schools by Ms. Sahmali and during the completion mission, and
materials available in ECA files. The Borrower (Ministry of National Education) prepared
its own evaluation report, and the report's conclusions are included verbatim as Appendix A
of this report. The Borrower also contributed to the preparation of this report by providing
data, contributing to discussions, and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS PROJECT (LOAN 2536-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
i.    This project was one of a series of projects in secondary and post secondary education in
Turkey designed in the early 1980's to develop suitably trained technical manpower to promote
growth in export-oriented industries. This strategy conformed with the Bank's dialogue with the
government of Turkey as outlined in the "Industrialization and Trade Strategy Report". This Loan
was preceded by Loan 748-TU (closed 1981), also supporting industrial schools, and was followed
by three projects appraised in the mid 1980's -- two post-secondary technician training projects
(Loan 2399-TU and 2922-TU) and a non-formal vocational education project (Ln.2776-TU). In
particular, these projects addressed the lack of technology programs and equipment in technical and
vocational schools, and reflected the importance given to vocational education.
Project Objectives
ii.   The three objectives of the project were to improve the quality of programs, increase the
quantity of trained industrial manpower, and improve the planning and management capacity of the
Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education (DTVE) in the Ministry of National Education
(MONE). These objectives reflected the Government's priority to promote industrial productivity,
expand the manufacturing sectors, increase exports, and maintain global competitiveness while,
concurrently, promoting economic growth. Provision of adequate training equipment for selected
trade specializations was essential to increase labor productivity and the Bank would support the
Government's goal to increase enrollment in Industrial Schools from 17% to 24% of secondary
education. These objectives were relevant to Turkey's strategy to achieve market competitiveness
and economic growth; these objectives are relevant today as Turkey works at maintaining its
market share of exports in an increasingly global economy, and joins the European Customs Union.
iii.   Evaluation of Objectives. The two project objectives to improve the quality and quantity
of vocational education were achievable, and the project did improve the quality of vocational
education and delivered better technology equipment and programs, books, and teacher training.
However, in retrospect, it is recognized that the specializations were too narrowly defined and
focused excessively on vocational skills training which today is inappropriate at the secondary level.
The third objective to achieve institutional development was rather unrealistic due to the limited
technical assistance resources provided under the project in proportion to the magnitude of the
needs in the MONE for efficient management and for effective formulation of sector policies, and
also due to the low status and inadequate pedagogical and technical knowledge of teachers and
schools managers. An ability to plan for evolving needs in vocational education and an ability to
manage a quality education system (quality teachers, quality programs, in a quality environment)
was not reached.



Implementation Experience and Results   6 
iv.   Project Outcome. The project's outcome is rated as "satisfactory" since it was successful
in achieving its appraised objectives to a substantial degree. Physical targets were surpassed, but
quality was sometimes deficient mainly due to poor monitoring and support, and poor teacher
qualifications; these efficiency factors should have been more carefully assessed during preparation
and remedied during implementation. The project equipped 79 Industrial Schools in 13 program
specializations. In addition, computers and software were provided for 200 Computer Classrooms
in Industrial Schools. Technical assistance and fellowship training was provided, as appraised, for
curriculum development and teacher/staff training. Also, the production of 42 technical textbooks
was completed against 50 expected at appraisal. In terms of enrollment, it was anticipated that
3,573 students would graduate annually; in 1994, there were 4,728 graduates, an increase of 32%;
enrollment demand for these schools still far exceeds capacity due to shortage of secondary schools.
During the two-year project extension, a comprehensive study on vocational education and the
strengthening of teacher training were added and successfully completed. Most important, the
project is expected to improve its quality shortcomings during its operational phase, as outlined in
the borrower's completion report and project sustainability plans.
v.    Project Costs and Implementation Table. The project had significant cost savings, mainly
due to a decrease in the price of technology equipment, but also due to the MONE's responsible
choice of least-cost solutions and filling essential needs. The savings in the equipment category
allowed for a reallocation to other expenditure categories, mainly technical assistance.  The
appraised project cost was US$72.7 Million (Government: US$15.0M and Bank: US$57.7M);
actual costs were US$68.8 Million, or 95 % of appraised costs (Government: US$13.2M and Bank:
US$55.63M). A remaining Loan balance of US$1.98 Million was cancelled. The main difference
in expenditures between appraised and actual costs was due to a reallocation to the technical
assistance and fellowships category which was raised from US$3. IM to US$5.9M. In terms of
disbursements, the project generally lagged far behind appraised estimates due to the fact that
expenditures were clustered around large procurement packages. By the original Loan closing date,
only 63% of the Loan had been disbursed. At that time, the MONE requested to expand the
project significantly; the Bank, however, declined to extend the project programs to additional
schools as there was already recognition of the need for less specialized vocational skills than the
project provided, and for increased flexible vocational cluster programs. The Bank agreed instead
to support activities that would improve education quality in vocational schools, and financed:
computer literacy programs to improve the general content of vocational education; a study in
vocational education; and, to strengthen the weakest part of the project, provision of additional in-
service teacher training. These expanded activities amounted to about US$10.0 Million, or 18%
of the total actual Loan of US$55.63M.
vi.   Bank Performance. Although the Borrower appeared satisfied with the degree of project
preparation, in retrospect, there was need for greater detail, in particular regarding project
management requirements, scheduling ,c" project activities, terms of reference for consultancies,
budget monitoring and related tools to oversee a national project that is centrally managed, and,
most important, involvement of the schools in selecting their programs and the corresponding
equipment and training. Today, the Bank gives greater priority to the issue of ownership by the
stakeholders and the need for detailed description of implementation arrangements.



vii.  Borrower Performance. The Borrower maintained its full commitment to supporting project
objectives for the duration of the project and worked closely with the Bank. The Borrower's
shortcomings were mainly institutional and operational -- institutionally with severe constraints in
obtaining qualified staff and reluctance to use technical assistance in project management and
implementation and, operationally, with limited implementation ability in a highly centralized yet
weak system. Both the Borrower's and the Bank's performance were on average "satisfactory " for
the Project Preparation stage. Performance by the Borrower in Project Implementation is rated
"deficient" due to overall inefficiencies but recognizing this is a heavy burden on the implementing
agency, while the Bank's performance is rated "satisfactory" but considering its limited
responsibility for on-the-ground implementation.
Summary of Key Lessons Learned for Future Operations
viii. There are several lessons learned from the implementation of this project.
Project Management Professionals Although the MONE objected to using project management
consultants, evidence of the benefits of contracting the needed expertise has been clearly
demonstrated. In the Bank's view, the financial losses from poor project implementation in
terms of delays and inefficiencies far outweigh the cost of contracting the needed management
and administrative services to deliver inputs on time to beneficiaries.
Implementation of Technical Assistance (TA) It is essential that a detailed implementation plan
for technical assistance be completed during project preparation and include the identification
of qualified national counterparts for consultants. Terms of reference should be detailed and
understood by both the client and the contractor.
Curriculum Reform Curriculum reform is a difficult task, especially in vocational education.
To introduce new curricula, appropriate materials, and essential equipment at a national scale
is a challenge. It is also difficult to include local industry in a centrally managed project,
although industry does not always appropriately influence training as the focus is on narrow
specializations for the short term; however, in the medium and long term both workers and
industry benefit from broader and flexible skills to be able to adapt to future markets and new
technologies. Lack of detail in design of an implementation plan can be detrimental, in
particular, definition of the role of local schools in program development and changes in
curricula and pedagogy. The importance of these factors is often underestimated at appraisal
and results in unrealistic expectations of the project's impact and benefits.
In-Service-Teacher Training and Staff Training The importance of in-service training is often
underestimated with inadequate provision in terms of numbers of participants and the types of
training needed to derive full benefit of project inputs such as new curricula and materials.
During project preparation the detailed arrangements for the implementation of an in-service
training program need to be carefully designed, and financing should preferably be made
available through the Loan.
Fellowship Training Objectives Fellowship training programs are costly and their objectives
need to be carefully appraised. This includes an assessment of the availability of qualified
candidates and their respective suitability for positions they would occupy upon their return.
The experience in this and other projects in Turkey indicate a retention rate of about 30%. This



low retention rate is further affected by lack of follow-up of candidates to ensure that they apply
their newly-acquired skills in targeted key positions.
Adjustment in Project Design  Because of the fast pace of development in science and
technology, and the changing demands in the work environment, it is essential in the field of
vocational education to offer up-to-date and flexible programs. Unfortunately, the project
remained as designed, focusing on teaching old technologies rather than emerging technologies,
experimentation, and the need to become life-long learners. The need for job-specific skills is
being replaced by the need to apply academic skills in the workplace. Curriculum reforms now
support an integrated coursework program combining academics with vocational learning. This
stronger academic foundation is essential for future learning and development of life-long
learning skills.  It is important that projects and loan agreements incorporate tools for
corrections in project design and content and encourage a periodic reassessment of needs.
Procurement Procedures In the case of technical and vocational education, where the needs and
interests of a community are of essence, it is not desirable to impose at the individual school
level standardized programs and equipment which have been centrally selected. The interest,
need, and motivation of each local school are essential to the success of a vocational or
technical program. An assessment of both the benefits and risks of centralized or locally-
planned participatory procurement is essential. Sometimes losses from lack of ownership
override any possible cost savings derived from economies of scale through bulk procurement.
Plans for Future Project Operations and Sustainability
ix. The MONE has made a serious commitment to continuing monitoring the operation of project-
supported schools, and continues to have a Project Coordinator. The operational phase of the
project, including performance indicators to be monitored, were included in the borrower's
evaluation report. This provides assurances that the project's benefits will continue to increase.
The Bank has highlighted to the MONE management that many of the benefits from the project are
yet to materialize as a substantive amount of equipment has yet to be efficiently used due to lack
of teacher training. Follow-up by MONE will be a key factor to improve the project's impact and
its cost-effectiveness.



1
Part I. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.    Statement of Objectives The Industrial School Project (ISP) had three objectives as stated
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated April 18, 1985:
"(a)    to improve the quality and increase the quantity of trained industrial manpower by
equipping and re-equipping seven existing trade specializations and equipping four
new trade specializations in 39 existing industrial schools;
(b)     to improve the quality of existing curricula and training materials, and to assist the
development of programs for new trade specializations; and
(c)     to improve the planning and management capacity of the DTVE by providing
technical assistance."
These objectives clearly reflected the Government's priority to improve industrial productivity,
expand the manufacturing sectors, increase exports and maintain global competitiveness and,
concurrently, promote economic growth. Through sector work, inadequate training capacity was
identified as one of the causes of low industrial productivity. The ISP was to address the particular
issue of "inadequate industrial and vocational training facilities at the pre-service secondary school
level", as identified in the Bank's "Industrialization and Trade Strazegy" (Rpt. 3641-TU, Feb.
1982). Provision of adequate training equipment was essential to improve the quality of training
to be able to increase labor productivity and support an advanced technological environment. The
Bank would assist the Government to reach its goal of expanding enrollment in Industrial Schools
from 17% to 24% of secondary education by 1991. Since these schools feed the manufacturing
export sector, their success was critical to increased productivity.
2.    Evaluation of Objectives  Certainly the project objectives were relevant and directly
responded to the Country's strategy to achieve economic development and stability. Many of these
concerns continue to be valid today as Turkey moves towards joining the European Union, and
make its manufactured goods competitive in an increasingly global economy. The areas selected
for development were those where technology changes are occurring rapidly. Letter training
programs, better access and opportunity for quality training, especially for students from low-
income families, higher participation for women in technical training, and better quality graduates
were to be the outcomes from achievement of the objectives of the project. There first two project
objectives were realistic and achievable and were a direct outcome of the project's physical
investments which developed new curricula and equipped project schools. However, the third
objective, to achieve institutional development proved to be unrealistic mainly due to: (i) the lack
of qualified counterpart staff at the central level to forge partnerships with consultants and foreign
institutions; (ii) the low status and inadequate pedagogical and technical knowledge of teachers and
school managers; and (iii) the very limited technical assistance resources provided under the project
in proportion to the magnitude of the needs in the MONE for efficient management and for
effective formulation of sector policies.



2
B. Achievement of Objectives
3.    Based on the standards prevailing at the time of loan approval, the project did achieve its
first two objectives to increase the quantity and the quality of programs in Industrial Schools.
However, as explained in "(b)" below, standards have changed during the course of
implementation, and the institutional capacity to address such change was not developed to the
degree needed.
(a) "Improve the Quality and Quantity of Trained Industrial Manpower"  The project did
deliver technology equipment, books, and teacher training for the appraised program
specializations, and resulted in an increase in the number of trainees, far exceeding the
appraised targets (4,728 graduates in 1994, or 32% above appraised estimates). However,
linkages between equipment and curricula were weak. The project was successful in greatly
improving learning conditions in project schools which previously lacked any practical skills
training and knowledge of technology. In particular, the project was highly successful in
introducing a computer literacy course in secondary technical education and provided
computers for over 250 schools nationwide.
(b) "Imnprove Curricula for new Trade Specializations" The project did complete development
of new and revised curricula for 13 trades, or two more than appraised. However, there
were long delays in approval of the curricula which did not dovetail with the equipment-
based training for teachers nor the appropriate pedagogy for better student learning. More
importantly, labor markets today require flexible mobile workers not with specialized trade
skills but rather with broader knowledge including computer literacy and stronger math,
science, communications, and general work skills (team, analytical, and problem solving
skills)
(c) "Improve the Planning and Management Capacity of DTVE" The project provided limited
technical assistance to the Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education for Boys
(DTVE) mainly for project implementation, and limited use of experts to conduct five
studies (3-person-months per study). Instead of the five small studies, the project financed
during the project extension, a study to improve awareness of global issues and trends in
vocational education and its relation to the "world of work". One must note that the limited
technical assistance envisaged under the Project did not relate to the appraised development
objective to improve planning and management. Currently, the planning and management
capacity of the DTVE and MONE in general is constrained by several factors, mainly a
rigid and obsolete vocational education system, and resistance to innovation and change to
meet the requirements of today's globally competitive labor force and adapt to a changing
work place that needs more flexible workers and less narrowly specialized labor. Today,
the DTVE pursues the same narrow specializations it planned over 10 years ago when this
Project was conceived. An ability to plan for evolving needs and manage a quality
education system was not reached.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
4. The project was successful in achieving its appraised objectives, in particular, delivering goods
and services as envisaged in the project, which generated significant benefits given poor pre-project



3
conditions in schools with unmet basic needs in technical and vocational education programs;
however, the project did not achieve all its expected quality improvements, and the benefits derived
were short of their potential to deliver better training programs. There were several factors
discussed below which affected the implementation and quality performance of the project
5. Project Management Project management was repeatedly highlighted as one of the main
constraints in project implementation throughout the project years. The Bank and the MONE
seemed to differ on their understanding of effective project management. MONE preferred to staff
the management unit with MONE teachers who generally did not have the needed language
proficiency nor the technical knowledge to work effectively with consultants and the Bank. MONE
was also hesitant to entrust outsiders, fearing external criticism and trying to protect internal staff.
The Bank insisted, to no avail, on the need for professional management, neutral from political
influences, technically competent, in touch with the local school level, and proficient in English
and/or other foreign languages. The main lesson learned is that it is difficult to implement a project
that is national in scope, through a highly centralized agency with limited ability to maintain contact
with the stakeholders, and suffering from significant staffing constraints as mentioned. The central
control of physical, financial, and human resources promoted dependency and lack of initiative or
autonomy at the local level which did not help implementation.
6. Performance of Consultants The MONE (the client) appeared to be dissatisfied with the
performance of two of the consulting firms under the project, the ILO and the British Council, as
noted in their evaluation report. Although their report does not delve into the reasons for their
dissatisfaction, one of these reasons may have been the lack of detail in the terms of reference for
the assignments which prevented a clear understanding of the scope of the consultants' work, their
deliverables, and the linkages with MONE counterpart staff in the context of their responsibilities.
In addition, weakness in project management by the client rendered the work of the consultants less
efficient and less task oriented. Further, a well recognized factor that causes friction between
MONE staff and consultants is the resentment vis-a-vis higher salaries earned by consultants.
However, it is understandable that consultants would be resented when there is little understanding
by MONE staff of the outputs that should come forth from individual consultancies or of the need
for consultants to have qualified counterpart staff. These are serious impediments that continue to
affect the provision of technical assistance in MONE, but they are surmountable with proper
planning and goodwill on both sides. Consultants did provide the expertise they were hired for,
mainly curriculum development, overseas training, and procurement services, although there were
inefficiencies in the way the consultancies were managed without appropriately qualified
counterparts, and in processing the resulting products. The consultants hired during the project
extension, the Center for Occupational Research and Development (CORD), were recognized by
the client as having performed to satisfaction, and substantive benefits were derived from their work
which was closely intertwined with contributions by national staff. Several lessons have been
learned regarding the effective use of technical assistance and are already being applied in other
projects, mainly: (i) objectives and outputs of each consultancy must be clearly detailed in the
terms of reference;  (ii) consultancy objectives cannot be disproportionate to the tasks and
timeframe of the consultancy, e.g. institutional development objectives are hard to achieve with a
limited technical assistance input; (iii) the client needs to have a full understanding and realistic
expectations of the objectives, terms of reference, and expected outcome of the consultancy; (iv)
large, long-term consultancies should be avoided as the scope of the work and objectives are often
not clearly defined without an evident impact or outcome; (v) qualified national counterparts, in



4
particular with language skills, need to be identified as partners in consultancy tasks.
7. Centralization The Government has made decentralization one of the top priorities in its
Seventh Five-Year National Development Plan (1996-2000). The high degree of centralization of
physical and financial management in the public sector generally, and in the MONE specifically,
had a significant negative impact in the project, diminishing the expected benefits derived from the
project investments. For example, the project management staff seldom was able to visit schools
to assess the use of new curricula and equipment for the project-supported programs and,
consequently, was also not able to diagnose and respond to problems and needs with the
introduction of sophisticated technologies to teachers and the classroom environment. In addition,
little was offered in teacher training to upgrade the pedagogical skills of teachers in new effective
and more progressive teaching methods.  Lessons were learned regarding the difficulty of
implementing projects which are national in scope under a highly centralized but weak system with
little autonomy and initiative at the local level.
8. Procurement With centralized procurement the project experienced superb results in the
purchase of large numbers of standardized equipment, to be distributed nationally. Workstations
for computer literacy classrooms were purchased at a very low cost, and resulted in high benefits
to the students and schools. However, this same centralized procurement method has disadvantages
in the more technically sophisticated equipment where schools did not have the ability to choose
the equipment and the school manager and teachers may not have had the interest or ability to
implement a new program.  In this case, neither the procurement system  nor the project
management served the best interest of the stakeholders, since provision was not individually
tailored to each school, and resulted in decreased returns on investment when a significant
percentage of the equipment is yet to be used effectively. Due to delays, the project resulted being
end-loaded, with much of the equipment delivered in the last project year. However, the MONE
has maintained follow-up of project schools as agreed for the project's operational phase (see
Appendix A); in addition, improved usage of the equipment and further development of the
curricula has occurred in recent months and within a year after project completion. This highlights
the importance of the project's operational phase to which the MONE has shown its full
commitment.
9. Sector Policies Although the project was to provide some support to develop MONE's capacity
to adjust its programs according to labor market needs in industry, the programs that are offered
today in Industrial Schools are not directly linked to emerging needs in industry. The inefficiencies
of the system are evident from the low employment rates of graduates in their fields of study, based
on survey information (about 5%). The provincial Vocational Training Councils are also not
functioning, and there has been minimal feedback from industry to vocational schools. One of the
main reasons for the lack of linkages between vocational schools, industry, and job markets is that
Industrial Schools are part of the system of formal secondary education for which the MONE is
responsible. In Industrial Schools, students are enrolled in the three-year vocational programs or
four to five-year technical programs. The preferred path for technical students remains a university
education, while vocational students have little chance to enter higher education or to be employed
in their fields of study. Furthernore, since job flexibility is important in today's fluid labor
markets, providing narrowly focused skills training is detrimental as students are given the false
impression of being skilled workers but in reality and stigmatized for life with poor knowledge in
the core areas of math, science, communications, and technology that are being demanded by



5
prospective employers and will be essential for job mobility. A rationalization of the transition
from school to work or from school to higher or technical education is yet to be articulated by the
MONE and the Council of Higher Education.
10.   Government Commitment The Government remained strongly committed to the project
throughout implementation in expectation of improvements in the quality of workers available for
industry, and considering the high demand for enrollment in these schools. These were positive
aspects for the project and contributed to positive relations with the Bank and counterbalanced the
project's shortcomings. Industrial Schools are a priority for the MONE and the Government, and
the project was viewed positively by the Borrower.
11.   Curriculum Development and Board of Education Curricula were developed and upgraded
in the various project-supported trades, by consultants and MONE counterpart staff, including
teacher commissions. There were some deficiencies in the organization and development of the
curricula which caused delays and technical problems, and this was mainly due to consultants
working independently from MONE staff. The curricula were not approved until 1992, in the
eighth project year. For curricula which should be quickly updated to respond to changes in
technology and industry, such a long drawn out process with no sense of urgency seems
counterproductive. Since Industrial Schools are secondary schools, all curricula have to have Board
of Education approval and meet certain requirements in form and content. The methodology for
design, quality control, and approval of curricula remains a controversial issue because of the many
stakeholders' interests in participation in the process including, among others, university faculty,
school teachers and managers, the religious establishment, industry, and vocational trainers.
Because of the multiplicity of actors and the magnitude of needs to maintain updated curricula,
textbooks, and teaching materials, the MONE should direct more efforts into improving the
efficiency of the process.
12.   Textbooks The project successfully provided forty-two urgently needed technical textbooks
in Turkish. Again, delays in implementation reduced the potential benefit as technology advances
quickly and the validity of such materials is short-lived. Lessons in the need for expediency in
adapting and developing textbooks and teaching materials applies equally as it does for curriculum
development and the need for continuing education of teachers to keep up with technology and
developments. All these are areas that need focus for improvement.
13.   Foreign Fellowships  The project provided a large number of fellowships (about 805
person-months), mainly in the vocational program areas developed. In all probability, the
fellowships component was the least successful and least cost-effective activity under the project,
mainly due to the small pool of qualified applicants available in public schools and in management,
as well as poor oversight by the MONE of the objectives and expected outputs from fellowships.
Unfortunately, even when lessons were known regarding the need for careful targeting and planning
of expensive overseas training programs, there was carelessness in the selection of candidates who
were: not qualified with sufficient language or technical skills for the intended program; not
informed of the objectives or expectations of the programs; and not required to apply in their jobs
the knowledge gained in the training.  The weaknesses in the design, management, and
implementation of the fellowships program had a negative impact on the quality of teaching and the
utilization rates of new equipment provided under the project. One of the consequences of this
experience has been the restriction on the number of fellowships in subsequent projects to a very



6
limited and selective set of candidates, and much tighter monitoring of program content.
14.   Monitoring and Evaluation It was agreed as part of the project that the MONE would
monitor certain key school and student performance indicators that would allow for program
evaluation. However, in practice, there was little performance monitoring of the project schools.
As mentioned under Project Management lessons, the PCU had almost no interaction at the school
level, and was unable to perform the appropriate monitoring and evaluation function to allow the
project to be responsive to needs at the school level. In retrospect, monitoring closely the
proportion and performance of in-service teacher training, and ensuring that the In-service Training
Department of the Ministry offered the programs needed under the project would have had a
positive impact in increasing the project benefits; at completion, one of the critical weaknesses of
the project was the lack of effort made at in-service teacher training, which had been affected by
austerity measures. A lesson for future projects is that a financial provision must be made under
the project to supplement MONE resources for field monitoring rather than letting this be entirely
government-financed.
15.   Beneficiary Participation One of the disadvantages of a centrally managed project or agency
is the lack of ownership by the beneficiaries of project inputs, i.e., for this project, teachers,
managers, and students at the individual school level. Each school is generally an individualistic
entity reflecting the spirit of the managers, teachers, and students. There are certain types of
regulatory (quality control), research, and policy guidance activities that are appropriately and cost-
effectively managed centrally; other activities like program or textbook selection are more
appropriately overseen by the stakeholders, as this immediately creates ownership and cost-
efficiency. Designing projects with community and beneficiary involvement requires specific
planning, making provisions for greater autonomy in design and implementation by the
beneficiaries. This is important particularly in the education sector, where communities, teachers,
and school managers are better motivated through ownership and accountability. As this project
was centrally managed and implemented, both the positive and negative aspects were manifested
at the school level -- either schools and students were grateful for receiving goods, materials, and
training which would have otherwise been out of their reach, or they were indifferent as to why
a piece of equipment or training had been provided to them and took little initiative to use it. As
communications and access to goods and services are becoming more universal, projects that are
less centrally managed and more community based are possible and should be considered.
16.   Austerity Measures The project was affected in some ways by economic austerity measures
which limited both national and Loan funding for greatly needed in-service teacher training and
English language training. It is recognized that the benefits of the project's investments would be
far larger had more emphasis been given to teacher training. Again, the MONE now understands
that there are shortcomings in the use of equipment which was the major project investment, and
that utilization rates can be improved during the operational phase of the project which could
further increase project benefits.
17.   Project Cost Changes The project had significant cost savings, mainly due to a decrease
in the price of technology equipment from the early 1980's when the project was appraised. The
MONE was also generally conservative in its spending and deserves credit for due attention to
economy in the purchase of equipment. Although the MONE wished to expand the number of
schools which were provided technical training equipment, the Bank agreed only to an increase



7
from 39 to 79"schools; the Bank believed that by 1990, there was already a well established trend
moving towards increased general education at the secondary level and cluster vocational programs
to allow graduates greater flexibility to change jobs in an increasingly changing work environment.
Therefore, the Bank agreed to extend the Loan with the condition that financing would be provided
for computer literacy programs for 200 schools to improve the general content of vocational
education, and to finance a study to asses the needs for improvements in vocational education in
Turkey; in addition, to strengthen the weakest part of the project, teacher training, a component
was added to develop 17 model schools for In-service Teacher Training and Program Development
Centers. These expanded activities amounted to about US$10.0 Million, or 18% of the total Loan
of US$55.63 Million.
18.  Implementation Delays The project suffered from long implementation delays, in particular
at project start-up, then during project management changes in its first half, and finally with
protracted revisions of the new curricula as they were finalized for the approval by the Board of
Education. Project delays were not due to any major fault in project design or in unforeseen events
but rather to slow implementation and the lack of adherence to schedules and forward planning.
The borrower should calculate savings generated from implementing a project on time versus the
losses to students who do not receive the benefits (in this case many project inputs to schools came
in the tenth year), as well as higher costs over time. Project management was highlighted
repeatedly by the Bank as an area to strengthen, noting the need for time management to enforce
scheduling and accountability, as well as improvements in management of financial, physical, and
staff resources. In the last project year, however, significant improvements were made to speed
up project implementation.
D. Project Sustainability
19.   The MONE has made a serious commitment to continued monitoring in the operation of
project-supported schools. Plans for the operational phase of the project, including indicators to
be monitored were included in the borrower's completion report (see Appendix A). Consequently,
the project is positively assessed as "likely to be sustainable". However, the impediments that
prevent appropriate follow-up of the operation of schools at the local level are still present, in
particular, the fact that almost negligible funds are made available for MONE staff to visit schools.
Also, because of the centralized nature of the MONE, school visits appear not to be given priority
at any level.  As follow-up was recognized to have been weak during the project, even up to
completion, the PCU established a Follow-up Unit, for which it requested funding for travel and
subsistence from other Loans. Furthermore, the Bank has highlighted to MONE management that
some of the benefits from the project are yet to materialize as a substantive amount of equipment
was yet to be efficiently used due to lack of teacher training. Follow-up will be a key factor to
improve the project's impact and its cost-effectiveness.
E. Bank Performance
20.   Although the borrower appears satisfied with the degree of project preparation, in retrospect,
there was need for greater detail, in particular as to project management requirements and
scheduling of project activities, terms of reference for consultancies, monitoring at the school level,
and most important, involvement of the school in selecting the programs offered and the
corresponding equipment. Today, the Bank gives greater priority to the issue of ownership by



8
stakeholders and the need for detailed description of implementation arrangements. Also, in
retrospect, given the limited implementation capacity in the MONE, one can note that during
preparation the Bank underestimated the difficulties of implementing the project and achieving
institutional development objectives and that limited technical assistance provided under any project
would rarely allow for achievement of broad institutional development. Regarding the project's
responsiveness to the country's development objectives, one can rate the project as "highly
satisfactory" as it directly supported the goals of improving industrial productivity and
competitiveness in global markets.  Regarding supervision, the Bank provided the average
supervision amount, with relatively good staff continuity (see table 10). Based on the overall
performance of the project, one concludes it has a "satisfactory" rating for preparation and
supervision, but considering that the Bank has no responsibility in direct project implementation
F. Borrower Performance.
21.   The Borrower maintained full commitment to supporting project objectives for the duration
of the project. In this sense, the Borrower's performance was, on balance, "satisfactory" since
management and teachers generally endorsed the project's objectives and cooperated fully with the
Bank during preparation, implementation, and completion. The borrower's shortcomings or
deficiencies can be classified mainly as institutional and operational: (a) as mentioned earlier,
institutional development was negligibly impacted by the project due to severe constraints at the
central level to attract qualified individuals to oversee a policy dialogue and provide intellectual
leadership in developing the necessary dynamic secondary vocational education needed for today's
changing work environment; the borrower was reluctant to use technical assistance, in particular,
national experts from the private sector or universities, while preferring to tap its resources of
teachers; however, this proved to be counterproductive since teachers in Turkey generally do not
have the necessary competitive business, technical, and language skills needed for this project which
was to bring the cutting edge of knowledge in secondary vocational education;  and (b)
operationally, the MONE managed project implementation by recruiting teachers, mainly from
vocational secondary schools, to perform managerial, administrative, and technical work which
required fluency in English due to the international nature of the work. Unfortunately, poor
management and negligible follow-up impacted negatively on the project. Regarding Loan
covenants, the borrower complied with requirements which were less on the technical side and
more on maintaining a project management unit and the financial accounting, auditing, and
reporting requirements.
G. Assessment of Outcome
22.   Although the project was extended for two years, and there were shortcomings in the
expected quality and flexibility of the programs supported under the project, the project still was
implemented in conformity with original project designs which are supported by the MONE, and
is considered "satisfactory ". Physical targets were fully achieved or surpassed, albeit quality was
sometimes deficient mainly due to poor monitoring and poor teacher qualifications which should
have received closer scrutiny during preparation and implementation.  In terms of student
enrollment, it was anticipated that 3,573 students would graduate annually, but by 1994, there were
4,728 graduates, an increase of 32%. Most important, the project is expected to improve and
overcome its deficiencies during its operational phase.



9
23.   The institutional development aspects of the project were less tangibly defined in the project,
and were also more difficult to achieve given the poor resources available in the Ministry
(considering that teachers receive low professional recognition and financial rewards and the sector
attracts many not committed to the teaching profession). One element in the project not supported
by MONE were five studies which were broad and ambitious in scope if they were to make
meaningful recommendations (five studies using 20 person-months). Not surprisingly, the borrower
was not willing to use technical assistance to undertake these studies (see table 6); instead, for the
extension of the project, a large new study to assess vocational education needs was agreed and
successfully completed.
H. Future Operations
24.   The MONE has prepared a plan for the operational phase of the project, aimed mainly at
improving the equipment utilization rate in project schools, as well as the knowledge of teachers
in the use of the equipment and to improve the availability of teaching materials and student
workbooks. Appendix A of this report includes MONE's proposal to monitor the operational phase
of the project (paras. 241-264). The Bank will also continue to monitor improvements in the
performance of project schools by including site visits while visiting schools for other projects, and
while maintaining a dialogue with the MONE and the PCU. After project completion, MONE
continued to submit progress reports regarding the monitoring and teacher training activities during
the project's operational phase.
I. Key Lessons Learned
25.   There are many lessons learned from the implementation of this project, some of which have
already been applied in this project, or are being applied in newer projects under implementation
or preparation.
Project Management Professionals Although the MONE objected to using project management
consultants, evidence of the benefits of contracting the needed expertise has been clearly
demonstrated. In the Bank's view, the financial losses from poor project implementation in
terms of delays and inefficiencies far outweigh the cost of contracting the needed management
and administrative services to deliver inputs on time to beneficiaries.
Implementation of Technical Assistance (TA) It is essential that a detailed implementation plan
for technical assistance be completed during project preparation and include the identification
of qualified national counterparts for consultants. Terms of reference should be detailed and
understood by both the client and the contractor.
Curriculum Reform Curriculum reform is a difficult task, especially in vocational education.
To introduce new curricula, appropriate materials, and essential equipment at a national scale
is a challenge. It is also difficult to include local industry in a centrally managed project,
although industry does not always appropriately influence training as the focus is on narrow
specializations for the short term; however, in the medium and long term both workers and
industry benefit from broader and flexible skills to be able to adapt to future markets and new
technologies. Lack of detail in design of an implementation plan can be detrimental, in
particular, definition of the role of local schools in program development and changes in



10
curricula and pedagogy. The importance of these factors is often underestimated at appraisal
and results in unrealistic expectations of the project's impact and benefits.
In-Service-Teacher Training and Staff Training The importance of in-service training is often
underestimated with inadequate provision in terms of numbers of participants and the types of
training needed to derive full benefit of project inputs such as new curricula and materials.
During project preparation the detailed arrangements for the implementation of an in-service
training program need to be carefully designed, and financing should preferably be made
available through the Loan.
Fellowship Traiing Objectives Fellowship training programs are costly and their objectives
need to be carefully appraised. This includes an assessment of the availability of qualified
candidates and their respective suitability for positions they would occupy upon their return.
The experience in this and other projects in Turkey indicate a retention rate of about 30%. This
low retention rate is further affected by lack of follow-up of candidates to ensure that they apply
their newly-acquired skills in targeted key positions.
Adiustment in Project Design  Because of the fast pace of development in science and
technology, and the changing demands in the work environment, it is essential in the field of
vocational education to offer up-to-date and flexible programs. Unfortunately, the project
remained as designed, focusing on teaching old technologies rather than emerging technologies,
experimentation, and the need to become life-long learners. The need for job-specific skills is
being replaced by the need to apply academic skills in the workplace. Curriculum reforms now
support an integrated coursework program combining academics with vocational learning. This
stronger academic foundation is essential for future learning and development of life-long
learning skills. It is important that projects and loan agreements incorporate tools for
corrections in project design and content and encourage a periodic reassessment of needs.
Procurement Procedures In the case of technical and vocational education, where the needs and
interests of a community are of essence, it is not desirable to impose at the individual school
level standardized programs and equipment which have been centrally selected. The interest,
need, and motivation of each local school are essential to the success of a vocational or
technical program. An assessment of both the benefits and risks of centralized or locally-
planned participatory procurement is essential. Sometimes losses from lack of ownership
override any possible cost savings derived from economies of scale through bulk procurement.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of obiectives         Substantial         Partial            Negligible         Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                                   X
Sector policies                                         X
Financial objectives                                                                             X
Institutional development                               X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                 X
Environmental objectives                                                                         X
Public sector management                                X
Private sector development                                                                       X
Other (specify)
B.  Proiect sustainability            Lik                           Unlielv                      Uncertain
x
C.  Bank performance*                 Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                                                     x
Preparation assistance                                             x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                                        X
[*Note: It would be preferable if "Bank Performance" was evaluated by an independent outsider.]
D.  Borrower performance              Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                                                                                 X
Covenant compliance                                                X
Operation                                                          X
E.  Assessment of outcome             Highly satisfactora          Satisfactory                 Deficient
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit title     |              Purpose                Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. Education Project           Development of secondary technical    1971           Completed 1981
(Ln.748-TU)                and vocational education
2. Industrial Training I       Development of post-secondary, two-   1984            Completed 1990
(Ln. 2399-TU)              year technician training programs.                                    l
Subsequent Operations                                                               _
1. Non-Formal Voc. Training    Provision of vocational training for  1985           Active
(Ln.2776-TU)               youths and adults.
2. Industrial Training II      Expansion of post-secondary, two-year  1988           Active
(Ln.2922-TU)                technician training programs.                                        l
3. National Education          To focus on quality enhancement and    1990          Active
Development Project        management improvement aspects of
(Ln.3192-TU)               the Government's broad sectoral
development programs through
improved student achievement,
educational efficiency, teacher
education, and organizational
management.
Table 3: Pro.ect Timetable
Steps in project cycle        J        Date planned      J         Actual
Identification (Initial Project Brief)      August 1984                August 14, 1984
Preparation                                 September 1984             September, 1984
Appraisal                                   December 1984              November 26, 1984
Negotiations                                April 1985                April 8, 1985
Board Presentation                          May 9, 1985               May 9, 1985
Signing                                     May 29, 1985              May 29, 1985
Effectiveness                               August 27, 1985           July 19, 1985
Project Completion                          December 31, 1992         December 31, 1994
[Loan Closing                                December 31, 1992          December 31, 1994



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94               FY95
Appraisal estimate                 2.5     4.0      8.2    15.2    26.2    40.2    52.7    57.7
Actual                            2.03    2.03    4.23   19.97   21.54   28.65   28.65   36.36   42.61       55.72
Actual as % of estimate           81.2      51      52      131      82      71      54      63       74       96
Date of Final Disbursement:          April 25, 1995
Undisbursed Balance Cancelled:       US$ 1.98 Million
Table 5: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                           Unit              Estimated            Revised           Actual
Schools Equipped
Development of Program Specializations                    programs                I1                  13               14
Schools                                                   schools                 48                  79               74
Computer Training Classrooms                              schools                200                 200              200
Technical Assistance:
Curriculum Development                                       months                  86                  67            62.61
Translation of Textbooks                                     months                   6                   6             3.26
Project Management & Procurement                             months                  27                  27            19.61
Feasibility Studies                                          months                  20                 7.5             3.90
VTET Study & 17 PRITT Schools (Project Extension)            months                  84                  52            41.00
Teacher Training in Turkey (Project Extension)               months                 100                37.5           128.91
Fellowships:
Curriculum Development                                       months                 686                 714              803
Textbook Design                                              months                   6                   4                3
Project Management                                           months                  24                  65              2.8
Study Tours (Extension)                                      months                 100                10.5             20.3
Translation & Printing of Technical Textbooks                   books                  50           Copyrights              42
obtained for 42
titles
Student Enrollment in Project Schools by Program Specialization:
Electronics
Electrical                                                students              5360                                8,498
Pneumatics & Hydraulics                                   students              6480                                9,644
Foundry                                                   students               600                                  149
Machine Tools & CNCM                                      students              1200                                 1007
Telecommunications                                        students              1200                                  281
Dyeing & Textiles                                         students               240                                  544
Printing                                                  students               120                                  909
Control & Instrunents                                     students               240                                  434
Marine Electronics                                        students               120                                   73
Computer Science                                          students               120                                  199
Medical Electronics                                       students               480                                  823
Tool & Die                                                students                                                    119
students                                                  1,036



Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as defined at                   Status and
Study                                   appraisal or as redefined                Impact of Study
1. Computer aided learning              To benefit from work completed by      Used USA-TDP
computer applications specialists and  funding to complete
focus on improving education.         this work.
2. New program development              To analyze industrial requirements for    MONE used its own
in the Industrial Schools            preservice industrial training, and   resources, although
evaluate the capacity of current and  limited.
planned programs within the industrial
schools to meet these needs.
3. Development of training programs for    To review the existing              Cancelled. Some
Commerce and Tourism Schools.        and planned training programs to meet    work financed under
the requirements of the modern        Ln.2776-TU.
commercial, public sector, hotels,
and tourism sector.
4. Non-formal adult training             To assess community                   Cancelled. Adult
needs for non-formal adult            Education is part of
education across a representative     the Non-Formal
cross section of Turkish regions and  Department, and
evaluate the effectiveness of present  studies were done
program in meeting these needs.       independently by the
MONE.
5. Cost control and recovery            To examine ways and means in which     Cancelled. MONE
the MONE can: (a) control and reduce    did not wish to
recurrent costs; (b) raise additional  undertake this study
financial resources to support the    using Loan funds nor
industrial school system.             technical assistance.
6. METE - Study on Voc. and Tech.        (This study was not included at       A comprehensive
Education in Turkey                  appraisal.) To assess and make        study and an
recommendations for improving the     International
effectiveness and flexibility of Vocational Symposium were
and Technical Education and Training in  successfully
Turkey.                               completed.



Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
(US$M)                   (US$M)
Item                            Local   Foreign    Total  Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs           costs*  costs
1. Refurbishment & Furniture    1.8    0.0       1.8    1.8    0.0       1.8
2. Equipment, Materials,        8.9    50.0      58.9   8.9    49.8       58.7
Books
3. Technical Assistance.
Consultants              0.2    1.1       1.3    0.2    3.7       3.9
Fellowships              0.0    2.0       2.0    0.0    2.2       2.2
4.  Future project development   0.0    0.3      0.3    0.0    0.0       0.0
5. Incremental recurrent costs   3.0    0.0      3.0    2.3    0.0        2.3
6. Unallocated                  1.1    4.3       5.4    0.0    .025       .025
TOTAL                           15.0   57.7      72.7   13.2   55.72    68.92
*MONE Estimates: March 15, 1995
Table 7B: Project Financin2
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/estimate (US$M)
Local       Foreign                   Local    Foreign
Source               costs        costs         Total      costs      costs     Total
IBRD              --           57.70         57.70        --       55.72       55.72
Govt               15.00       --             15.00       13.20                13.20
TOTAL              15.00       57.70         72.70        13.20    55.72       68.92



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreements    Section        Covenant      Status     Original       Actual          Description of covenant             Comments
Class                fulfillment    Fulfillment
date         Date
Loan 2536-    Section       I              C        No Date                     Open and maintain in dollars a    Always in compliance
TU             2.02 (b)                                                         special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section      10            C         No Date                     The Borrower shall at all times   The Borrower always
3.01 (b)                                                         maintain a Project                maintained project
Implementation Unit (PIU)        management staff and
acceptable to the Bank. The PIU    was committed to
was renamed PCU (Project         implementation;
Coordination Unit) in May 1990    however, the Bank
when the National Education      found the PCU was
Dev. Project (Ln.3192-TU)        weak in managerial,
became effective.                technical, administrative,
communication, and/or
foreign language skills.
Section      10            CD        03/31/86      08/06/86      Employ Consultants and make       Consultants (British
3.03                                                (British     arrangements for fellowship       Council, ILO, and
Council)    training for the Project, in       CORD) were contracted
07/13/87     accordance with a program and     for all the programmed
(ILO)        timetable acceptable to the Bank.   work; however, there
11/19/93                                       were inefficiencies in the
(CORD)                                         implementation of TA
and fellowship training
which are outlined in the
report.
Section      12            CP        09/30/86      Started in    In order to ensure that the       Although some schools
3.04                                                1986, but    Industrial Schools system         operated advisory
carried out   adequately responds to the needs    committees there was no
only in a    of industry, the Borrower shall,  monitoring or follow-up
few          no later than Sept. 30, 1986:     to oversee their
schools out  (a) establish schools advisory    operation due to lack of
of own       committees at all industrial      resources &  low
initiative   schools included in the Project;  priority. Trade
(b) form trade advisory          committees also operated
committees for each of the new   in some provinces, at the
trade specializations included in  provincial level. As
the Project. Each such           expected, the success of
committee shall include          such committees depends
representatives from industry in  on the initiative of the
its membership and shall meet at   school director.
regular intervals and in any event
at least once a year.
Section      12            CP        12/31/89      08/1994       For purposes of identifying the   Follow-up of graduates
3.05                                                             longer-term development           was conducted using
requirements for industrial      surveys done through
schools, the Borrower shall carry    METARGEM. A
out a study under terms of       methodology was
reference acceptable to the Bank    developed for follow-up
to collect information on the    of graduates, and
employment of graduates from     METARGEM will use a
four industrial schools and shall,    more systematic
no later than Dec. 31, 1989,     approach to improve
furnish to the Bank the findings  what school directors do
and conclusions of said study.   independently.



Agreements      Section_     Covenant    Status    Original        Actual        Description of covenants          Comments
Class                fulfillment    fulfillment
date          date
Section      10             C         Not Dated                   Project schools are to be         Adequate physical and
3.06                                                              equipped and refurbished and      staff resources were
are to be operated in accordance    provided for the schools.
with procedures as to promote     and all Project schools
the objectives of the Project, and    are functioning well and
provide resources and qualified   are fully- or over-
instructors and administrators for    enrolled. However,
effective utilization and operation    poor knowledge of
of such schools.                  instructors and the lack
of in-service training and
teaching materials
decreased the utilization
of equipment and the
quality of instruction.
Section      I              C         No Date                     The Borrower shall maintain       Always in compliance,
4.01 (a)                                                          records and accounts adequate to   although there were
reflect in accordance with sound    inefficiencies in record
accounting practices the          keeping and reluctance
operations, resources, and        to use professional
expenditures in respect of the    consultants and to
Project of the departments or     improving skills to
agencies responsible for carrying    automate records.
out the Project.
Section      I              C         Annual                      The Borrower shall have project    Always in compliance,
4.01 (b)                                                          accounts and the Special account    although the quality of
for each fiscal year audited, in  audit reports was poor
accordance with appropriate       due to the limited scope
auditing principles consistently  of the audits.
applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and
fumish a certified copy of the
report no later than six months
after the end of each such year.
Covenant Class:     .Accounts/Audit
2. Financial Performance/generate revenues for beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4. Counterpart Funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary Resettlement
8. Indigenous People
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
Status:            C: Complied with
CD: Compliance after Delay
NC: Not Complied with
SOON: Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP: Complied with Partially



Table 9: Bank Resources:Staff Inputs
Stage of project                      Planned                              Revised                    Actual
cycle                         Staffweeks                           Staffweeks                 Staffweeks
Through Appraisal                  No data available                    No data available                 46.7
Appraisal-Board                    No data available                    No data available                  2.7
Supervision                               80.9                                 127.3                     133.9
Completion                                12.0                                 12.0                       14.2
TOTAL                                                                                                    197.5
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Days
Stage of project   Month/    No. of      in       Specialized staff                                         Types of
cycle              year      persons    field    skills represented    Implementation    Development        problems
Status          objectives
Through          July-       5          16      EDC, ECN, ARC
appraisal         Dec. 84
Appraisal        Jan. -      5          -       EDC, ECN, ARC
through Board     May 85
approval
Supervision       Oct. 85    3          2       TM. ECN, ARC.               I                 I
Apr. 86   2           2       EDC, ECN                    1                 1
Nov. 86   2           3       TM, PRC                     I                 I
Feb, 87    3          5       TM.EDC,ARC                  I                 1
Jan. 88    2          5       EDC, TM                     1
Jul. 88    1          5       EDC                         I                 I
Spt. 88    1          5       EMT                         I                 I
Dec. 88   2           6       TM                          I                 I
June 89    2          6       TM, EMT                     1                 2
Oct. 89    2          6       TM, EMT                     2                 2
May 90    3           8       TM,EDC,ARC                  2                 2
Nov. 90   1           4       EDC                         3                 2
May 91    2           3       EDC, TM                     2                 2
Feb. 92    2          5       TM, EDC                     2                 2
Oct. 92    3          4       TM, EDC                     2                 2
Feb. 93    3          5       TM,EDC,OPR                  2                 2
Jun. 93    3          6       TM, OPR, EDC                2                 2
May 94    3           8       TM, EDC, COM                2                 2
Nov. 94   3           6       TM,COM,EDC                  2                 2
Completion        Feb. 95    2          10      TM, EDC, HR                 2                 2
EDC = Technical Educator   COM  = Computer Technology Specialist
ARC = Architect              HR    = Human Resources Specialist
ECN = Economist              EMT  = Employment & Training Specialist
TM  =  Task Manager          PRC   = Procurement Specialist
File: m:\patricia\icr2536\tables



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT: CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
II.   EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE
A.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
178. Industrial Schools Project is the first comprehensive project that the
Ministry of National Education has applied. The Ministry personnel who will
be responsible for the implementation and itemizing the management and
implementation planning of such comprehensive project are to be determined
previously. Additionally; this personnel should be provided training on project
management, implementation and evaluation prior to their designation for the
project-related activities. The continuity of the project activities should be
provided and frequent changes of personnel should be avoided.
179. It has been revealed that, with regard to the project planning, itemizing
the responsibility of the project-related units has a remarkable importance
taking into consideration the fulfilment of the responsibilities in direction of
the project objectives. Additionally, in order to benefit from " Technical
Assistance" services planned for efficient implementation, terms of reference
should be prepared also for local counterparts. For the employment of the
specialists, these terms of reference should be considered. Accordingly, the
studies of local and foreign specialists should be evaluated coincidentally.
Periodical informative meetings shall be held in favor of the establishment of
interdepartmental group working in project planning and embodiment of the
project objectives by relevant units.
180. The consultant firms and local/foreign consultants designated to the
Ministry units should be carefully supervised and controlled so that maximum
educational benefit will be received. Monthly reports of these consultants
should be reviewed by the relevant department and the deficiencies be
rectified. Furthermore, a payment structure should be envisaged in which the
specialists will be paid according to their work and work quality instead of
their assignment duration.
181. Regarding the realization of the activities determined in project
implementation plan, the last optional date needs to be stated in time
schedule. In case the activity cannot be implemented within the determined
period, a possible sanction including a review of the activity should be
applied. Project Implementation Plan should be classified according to the
priorities. In view of the economical status of the project, it is important to
make a planning which prevents the implementation of one activity without
completing the previous one.
182. On-the-site determination of the needs of the project-related units by
the officials of these units has a remarkable significance, in view of the
actuality of the needs and efficient use of the equipment. This will also show
the units the responsibilities regarding the completion of necessary
infrastructure preparations. After determining the actual needs, technical
specifications of the equipment to be procured should be prepared by
specialists who have been trained abroad and who have acquired highly



technical qualifications and excellent language skills. Similarly, procurement
and follow-up procedures should be handled by the same committees.
183. The candidates for fellowship training should be selected based upon
their language levels and be provided pre-training in local universities in their
respective areas. Accordingly, the successful ones should be sent for
fellowship programs abroad. In order to receive maximum benefit from the
training, particular attention should be paid to the quality of the training
environment and trainees. Similarly, certain criteria (quality of teachers,
equipment, social conditions of the region, etc.) should be determined and
followed for the schools abroad where training is held.
184. Particular attention should be paid to teacher needs and in order to
improve quality in education, assignments should be determined according to
these needs. Fellows returning from their training abroad under the project
should be assigned to the project schools. Assignment procedures should be
handled with the coordination of the respective General Directorates prior to
fellows' leaving for training abroad. Furthermore, periodical in-service training
for administrators and teachers in the project schools should be included in
the initial project planning.
185. The value of the equipment procured within the scope of the Industrial
Schools Project (Phases 1, 11, III and IV) is 50.3 million US Dollars. For the
effective use of these equipment of such a big investment, regular
maintenance and repair  process should be ensured. To this purpose,
particular attention should be paid to technical personnel training. Also,
operational costs of the production equipment, technical personnel training
and employment should be planned in the project preparation. The education
programs should be reviewed periodically, with the participation of the
industrial organizations, against the changing technology.



B.   FUTURE APPLICATION OF LESSONS LEARNED
186. With the Industrial Schools Project, 274 Secondary Vocational Schools
in Turkey have been equipped. In order to ensure equal opportunity for
everybody, this type of physical improvement should be expanded to include
other secondary vocational institutions. However, full benefits cannot yet
reflect on secondary vocational education as the existing physical capacity is
not fully utilized and graduates are not properly monitored. Therefore, actual
cost of the vocational education in secondary level is increasing more arid
more. For future investments in this area, financial aspect of the vocational
education should be considered as follows:
* It would be more realistic to establish laboratories for technology
training instead of procuring equipment for production workshops.
* For the financing of vocational training in specific areas, a system
should be established to which organizations benefiting from this training can
contribute. Increasing the variety of financial sources would have positive
effect on education quality and continuity.
187. In regard to the International Symposium held in June 1994, to analyze
vocational education in Turkey and in the world in the year 2000's, most of
the reports, as well as the final report, stress the fact that production and
distribution methods for goods and services are rapidly changing in parallel
to the rapid developments in technology and globalization, while approaching
to the year 2000's. The companies that can keep up with these changes have
a say in international markets. Having realized that hierarchical organizations
are slow in meeting these changes, these types of companies are transferring
responsibilities from middle-level personnel to front-line personnel. This has
resulted in drastic changes in the skills and qualifications that are now
demanded. With the introduction of high technology, organizations will soon
be in high competition to survive in international markets. Thus: in order to
meet their needs, a well trained work force should be produced with high
performance, technological understanding and application ability, effective
communication and problem-solving skills, team work spirit and initiative.
Producing such a high quality work force will not be possible with classic
vocational education methods which mainly focus on handicraft. To have a
successful economic future in Turkey, vocational education system should be
restructured to develop a broad-based vocational education at secondary
education level and to produce high performance work force.
188. The personnel policy has a crucial role in adapting the above-
mentioned changes in the structure. To ensure continuity in the employment
of well trained personnel within the Ministry and in schools is the most
effective way to benefit from the investments made in this field. Thus; it is
important to develop a personnel promotion and social & financial benefits
system which focuses on performance and productivity in vocational and
technical education.



189. To achieve the desired quality in vocational and technical education, it
would also be beneficial to restructure the system as to give financing and
program design responsibility to the organizations employing the well trained
work force.
C.   COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
190. In accordance with Industrial Schools Project Loan Agreement dated
29 May 1985, the Government and Ministry of National Education made the
following commitments to the World Bank:
191. Section 2.02. (b) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
(b) "The Borrower Shall, for the purposes of the project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory.
Deposits into and payments out of, the special account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this agreement"
Based on this subject, a special account was opened in Central Bank and
commitments were executed by obeying to payments according to categories..
192. Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"The closing date shall be December 31, 1992 or such
later date as the Bank establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date".
Due to the fact that the project activities could not be not completed by 31
December 1992, first extension was made until 31 December 1993. Upon the
second extension, the project was closed on 31 December 1994.
193. Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"In order to ensure coordination amongst the directorates
or agencies involved in the Project and effective
monitoring of progress under the project, the Borrower
shall at all times maintain a Project Implementation Unit
with staffing and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank".
Above-mentioned commitment was executed by the Government. However,
pointed out PCU carried out their activities according to the job definitions
only after 1992.
Accordingly, following activities were planned and commited in Annex
Schedule-2:



(a) Equipment and Renovation of the Industrial Schools
(b) Inservice Training Programs on Selected Fields and
Program Development
(c) Translating and Publication of the Technical Textbooks
(d) Other Activities.
Commitments related to sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) were executed except
timing.
194. Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement reads as follows
" or such later date as the Bank Shall agree, in
accordance with Section II of schedule to this agreement,
employ  consultants  and  make  arrangements  for
fellowship training for the project, all to be provided in
accordance with a program and timetable acceptable to
the Bank."
Activities in relation to this section had been performed in considerable delay.
Consultancy Services were procured by contracting British Council
(2 extensions ), ILO and CORD.
195. Section 3.04 (a-b) of Loan Agrement reads as follows:
"In order to ensure that the Industrial school system
adequately responds to the needs of industry, the
Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1986 (a)
establish schools advisory committees at all Industrial
Schools included in the project; and (b) form trade
advisory  committees  for  each  of  the  newtrade
specialisation's included in the project. Each such
committee shall include representatives form industry in
its membership and shall meet at regular intervals and in
any event ant least once a year."
With the law no. 3308; " Apprenticeship and Vocational Training
Commissions" were formed at central and local level. However, it could not
be said that these commission conducted their works effectively.
196. Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"For purposes of identifying the long-term development
requirements for industrial schools, the Borrower shall
carry out a study under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank to collect information on the employment of
graduates from four industrial schools and stall, not later



than December 31, 1989 furnish to the Bank the findings
and conclusions of said study."
Some project schools have got employment information but activities are not
conducted within a system. Schools which could determine employment
information presented their findings in Annex-20.
197. Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"The Borrower shall cause the schools to be equipped
and refurbished under the Project to be operated in
accordance with such procedures as shall promote the
objectives of the Project and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources as well as qualified
instructors and administrators in adequate numbers
reguired for the effective utilisation, staffing and operation
of such schools".
Schools have been equipped within the scope of the project but some of the
equipment could not be effectively used. Teachers in adequate numbers are
present in such fields as electrical; however some fields such as CNC
Machines and Computer do not have enough teachers.
198. Section 4.01 (a.b.c.) of Loan Agreement reads as follows:
' (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accountting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraph a) of this section and the special account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by in de pentend
auditors acceptable tothe Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as a valuable, but in any case not later than six
months after the and of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said accounts and the audit
there of and said reports as the Bank Shall from time to
time reasonably regrets.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are request from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure the Borrower Shall; (i) maintain



or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this section, sparate records and accounts referring
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the
closing Date all records ( contract orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents ) evidencing such
expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records; and  (iv) ensure that such
separate accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this section and the report
thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided."
199. Above-mentioned committments were mostly executed. Financial
Records had been regularly maintained by PCU until the end of 1989 ( same
records are present in GDVTE ). As of 1989, due to the changes in the
budget expenditure categories, these records have been maintained along
with the local allocations that were made to all schools under GDVTE.
Although financial project resources allocated in the government budget for
each year were obvious, dispersion of the allocations based on schools could
not be determined within this period. Therefore, financial records could not be
regularly maintained.
D.   EVALUATION OF MONE PERFORMANCE
200. Due to the fact that high level managers such as Minister,
Undersecretary,  Deputy  Undersecretary  are  continuously  changing,
explaining the project requires time process. This situation created difficulties
in implementation of the project and procedures were delayed.
201. Lack of a project observation commission in GDVTE lengthened the
duration of the solving problem. Also, due to a temporary lack of coordination
between PCU and GDVTE, the problems of the schools could not be solved.
202. Industrial Schools Project is the first project that was implemented by
the Projects Coordinaton Unit which was known as Project Implementation
Unit at the beginning. Therefore, there have been several delays in activities
time to time in view of insufficient experience.
203. Due to the previous donation-based project implemented by the
Ministry, especially at the end of first phase procurement, it was observed
that equipment delivered to the schools was accepted as donation by the
several schools. Moreover. some school managers were not well-informed
about the project scope.
204. PCU have continuously assigned their personnel on temporary base
and the staff were not given a determined responsibility. However, the Unit



established an organisation within their body and performed terms of
reference after 1992.
205. An annual working calendar must be prepared in accordance with the
project objectives and the project plan; and this calendar must be carried out
in due time, giving priority to legal arrangements which will reduce the
unnecessary bureaucracy.
206. Project applications and outputs ( without project practices ) must be
periodically and realistically evaluated at the end of each year. Project
Closing Report must be prepared based on these evaluations.
207. It was observed that Project Implementation Unit did not efficiently
follow-up, nor realise selection of the suitable foreign centers where
education would be performed.
208. It was observed that, instructors charged by GDVTE on several
equipment purchases could not select suitable equipment due to lack of
vocational and technological knowledge.
209. Fellowship trainings did not provide maximum benefit for the fellows as
they did not receive an orientation training and were sent to the foreign
countries without a proper orientation and program schedule.
210. It was observed that unspecialized persons were also participated in
overseas training provided by the firms ( Dyne & OMC ). Furthermore, the
fields of the fellows did not respond to the training fields. Thus, these
trainings remained only as an excursion, experience and research activity.
E.   EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE
211. According to the meetings made with competent persons who are in
the project preparation phase, everything has been realised based on rules.
The Bank has paid great attention to the activities related to preparation
phase which was conducted carefully. Working papers confirms this thesis.
212. It was observed that the Bank could not advise and guide effectively
as far as proper implementation concerned. Thus, a careful monitoring is
necessary.
213. Frequent additions and changes led to several delays in the project.
Attention must be paid to such situations in implementation phase.
214. Strong corporation with the project implementation unit must be
realised in the project preparation phase. While school visits have been
made, one person also from the project implementation unit must definitely
participate in these visits. Also, the importance of the SAR must be clarified in
the Loan Agreement phase.
Under the light of these facts; the Bank executed almost all commitments.



F.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
215. Within the Industrial School Project; technical teachers were trained
both at home and abroad, and they reviewed and applied technological
novelties. School managers and Ministry staff went to the foreign countries,
reviewed knowledge and experiments related to education and transferred
their findings to the their associations. Moreover, the lack of equipment in the
selected vocational areas of the project schools was responded. Thus, this
project has contributed to the Turkish economy by providing trained
manpower to the work force. The project, however, has not completely
achieved their objectives in this respect.
216. If the following subjects are performed, project will achieve their
objectives: Equipment provided from the project will be appraised one by one;
inactive ones will be made into usable state and maintenance of the other
active ones will breezed and make into more active state. Programs that were
provided from the project, inclusive of the Saturday and evening education,
will keep pace technological novelties and moreover, teacher training will be
completed with the inservice training.
Ill. ADOPTION OF PROJECT OPERATIONAL PHASE
A. DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONAL PHASE
217. Within the scope of the Industrial School Project, a file system was
started within GDVTE but due to the fact that project implementation unit has
been separated from their body, weaknesses have taken form in said system.
Project was examined in every side by the General Directorate and related
assessment documents were sent to the project schools. Responses are
being evaluated as well as technical deficiencies. Monetary transitions and
arrangements will be planned in accordance with the said evaluation results.
218. Research and Development Unit has initiated their activities related to
the associational regulation under the General Directorate. This situation was
explained in NUMBER TWO OBJECTIVE - Curriculum Development. Also,
Projects Section under the General Directorate will search solutions for the
problems by working with PCU.
B.   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR  MONITORING  OPERATION
AND DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
Following situations which were also mentioned in several sections of this
report prevented to be attained required results:
219. Personnel assigned in project management were not received a
detailed training program about the project management subject.
220. Due to the lack of similar project implementation previously,
experience was insufficient.



221. Changes on the project management
222. Teachers who were selected to be charged in project schools, were
assigned to non-project schools.
223. The firms presented inadequate training for equipment which were
purchased in project scope to the education and training services.
224. The overseas training provided for the teachers was insufficient in
usage of the products such as high tech machine and equipment.
225.  Short term foreign assignments that were performed within the scope
of the project was not appropriate.
226.  Technical consultancy services were insufficient.
227. The staff trained in foreign countries and foreign consultants did not
work in collaboration in project development process.
228. Knowledge accumulation of the personnel charged in the project
management was insufficient, which concerns what the project evaluation
criteria are and how they will be actualized, indicate that the project
implementation could not be attained.
229. In order to solve the problems related to instructor training, machine
and equipment and to reflect project implementations onto the industrial
technical education;
230. Evaluation forms that include several subjects such as updating the
education programs, educational needs of the teachers, productive usage of
the machine and equipment in the project schools were sent to the project
schools. Evaluating activities of the attained dates by the commissions are in
process.
As a result of above-mentioned activities
231. Determination of educational needs of the technical teachers in the
project schools on usage of the machine and equipment purchased within the
scope of the project and to meet this need, the following matters will be
realised within the scope of a plan:
232. Preparation of the in-service training programs;
233. Determination of the place and time of the in-service teacher training;
234. In-service teacher training provision of the faculty members will be
ensured from at home and abroad;
235. Effective in-service training activities:



236. Proper usage of machine and equipment puchased by MONE;
237. Development and modernization of the education programs;
238. Also, in respect to the cooperation and coordination between PCU and
Vocational and Technical Education Research and Development Unit, the
following activities were planned to be completed until the end of May 1995.
239. Establishment of a system to observe graduates from the technical
education and project schools including project;
240. Operation of the Vocational Guidance Councils with the participation
of the technical deputy school manager, instructors of the project fields,
representatives from the related industrial firms and vocational foundations,
under the school manager within the scope of the project schools.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27630
BUtGARIA    -                                                                                                  II   ck            S
C                                                                                                                          m...,                                                                                                                   GEORGIA
GREECE          T   .                             .55                                                                                                                                                                                                      9 * *'  Somwn  3
* ~~~~~~T. _fru                                   =       mt  kedogy z= i   -   ocse *$Ly  --  --            -                                                                           --*G.srnsun  -     Trobron      sOr                       -         - -f
SecotAI,nr                                      .                                    -   -                                      -       -      - B=l -                          G=eil moY eiGshana '
/~~~~~~~~~                                                             BI                    -      -  Cenkr         i        A,. Is                                                                      B7ye,  -                                   r'      REI
Cenedeja g                                                                                             -                                                          -    -k                                    BayHqe  -
5-;t            8r           4                                                                                                         - ;
r)~~~~.                                              -                                                                                                                        i_tCoh= .                                             *      - --  - 
/ Y ~~~~~~ _~~ *                                                      ~     i.k  _                                                                                                          g   EIa  OF  1
a~~~~~~~~~'                                                                 TiBi S                                    X                                              t-o                                .2 Ererce                                   --                                         AZER-
-                              a                                                   0   C.A."                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA-  -  A   e  -  -  -  j,  AIrR
--                                                 .AS,ea,- .                   - -
' ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I                                                                   /                                                 S '                                                                                                                     'tRE    OMUEUTRCPCYRMl20JAPONECPTI
_Kl B."S'
-.e7v>nuores Lojols,dsncf7m=llres=nd=n =^n  CYPRUS   _   .                                                                                  PROVINCEBOUNDARIES         ISLAMIC
-wn 7n                                                                                                   ) .*maD do vs1  9ifl9 o  OI pc7 =I n . W= ld i  G.P.  -  -  -- INTERN   BOUN0ARIES REPOF
*Afyen                                  r,. -,                                                                                                               (/jy I =                                           IRAN
Sick                                                                               an0'K.yse.                                           C-       (D                                 Ml                          iV.n      -
__Imnr      ,-                                                                         ,EK -gV I
2                                                                                       J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
ew,       n                                 "2--'  r-       '0Key                       N                                                                                       -              SDcb0g,,, 
*~~.)  ~'---'"            a24~o2   /                               ~.                         N.g.                                K.KermaiAdiyco.m                                .-   -                         -   '     
C M'    K                                -A~~~~~~~G.  Y-X                                     4/cr,f                                                                                                        I  
1)  Ante/ye ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  -,                9                          1 ~~~~~~~~~TURKEY
0INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS (6A/                      R  rIERS
M    e  cl i t e   r r a   n   e  a   n  S  e  a                          SYRIAN                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOLS FOR  4' A,RPORTS
M   e d~~~~~ t S  r TO  fl e  0  TI  S  e  0                              SYRIAN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAININGO//17I                      EETDCE
ARAB  REP.                         *  COMPJERBLITERACY PROGBAJ4S/2001
5   0  so         -     150      200 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                        Th.. ueb.r rd-ca A.-eb-a of                    2ACECAIAL$1
2~~..    en.~~~. 0 Uzore ecceni end cry crlr., elennelren                                                                                                 iclrcel, cIA., /cccrrcc                    NAT/GNAt CAPITAL~~~~~fh  NAONAL APITA
en rr noly a Ir .,hne  TI.. cl a-  r                                                    CYPRUS  -
--r...   , ,erWlnsnri   .n.ndr.n.                                                                                                                                                                                                      - .   INTERNATTONAL BOUnNDARIES






I



IMAGING
Report No:         15J3I"3.
Type: TCO



