Report No. PID6726
Project Name                     Korea-Financial and Corporate Restructuring...
Assistance Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Financial Sector / Private Sector
Project ID                       KRPE56796
Borrower                         Republic of Korea
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance and Economy
Juang-Dong 1, Kwachon, Republic of Korea
Tel:    82-2-5039253
Fax:    82-2-5039272
Financial Supervisory Commission
27 Yoido-Dong, Youngdeungpo-Gu, Seoul 150500
Republic of Korea
Tel:    82-2-37715970
Fax:    82-2-37716075
Date PID Prepared                July 28, 1998
Project Appraisal                July 1, 1998
Projected Board Date             August 6, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background.   At the end of 1997, Korea suffered a
financial crisis with a rapid depreciation of the currency and drop in the
securities markets. Banks were weakened by substantial problems in their
portfolios, and from high maturity and foreign exchange risks. An underlying
cause had been rapidly expanding corporate investment of often unclear
efficiency funded by readily available credit, which had led to
extraordinarily high debt:equity ratios of enterprises in the large business
groups. An environment with a tendency towards closedness to imports and
foreign competition, intensive Government influence in business, and limited
regard for minority shareholders had facilitated these developments.
With support by the IMF and World Bank adjustment lending, the authorities
then stabilized the economic situation and encouraged the drastic
restructuring of banks and corporations. In doing so, the Government that
came to power in 2/98 seeks to also address some of the fundamental beliefs
and behaviors that had contributed to the structural problems in the economy.
2.      Objectives.   The Project would support the Government's reform program
with substantial technical assistance, primarily by experts with broad
experience in international best practice. The main objectives would be: (i)
Reduced likelihood of systemic failure in the banking and corporate sectors;
(ii) improved financial soundness of banks and large-scale corporations,
particularly their financial leverage; and (iii) deepening a process of change
with regard to business-government relations, corporate governance, and
openness to global competition and investment.
3.      Description. The Project would provide consultant and training services,
as well as information technology equipment (of US$1.2 million), for: (i)
Strengthening the institutional capacity for financial sector supervision, and
the capability for financial sector crisis management; (ii) advancing the



development of securities markets, including market regulations,
infrastructure, and industry, and addressing also the reform of accounting and
audit; (iii) improving debt management; (iv) supporting corporate
restructuring through the provision of financial advisor teams to the lead
banks for the restructuring of the chaebol business groups; (v) strengthening
the country's insolvency system and corporate governance framework; and (vi)
enhancing competition policy in application of the Fair Trade Act. Project
implementation capacity will be supported with a minor part of the Loan funds.
4.      Financing.   Government                  US$ 6.5 million
IBRD Loan                US$48.0 million
Total                    US$54.5 million
5.      Implementation. The Project would involve several counterpart agencies
(Ministry of Finance and Economy, Financial Supervisory Commission, Ministry
of Justice, and Korea Fair Trade Commission). Each of them would carry out
the procurement, contracting, and supervision of contractual services. The
Ministry of Finance and Economy would play an overall coordination role.
Project Implementation Units are being established at the Ministry of Finance
and Economy and the Financial Supervisory Commission to handle disbursement,
project accounting, and related matters. Implementation would be largely
completed within three years.
6.      Sustainability.   Project outputs should be sustainable due to the
learning experience under the Project. Sustainability of Project outcomes
would be enhanced by ensuring realistic assessments of the financial problems
of banks and corporations, and adequately deep and timely restructuring
measures. The Project impact is expected to be sustainable due to the
institutional change that the project would support and catalyze.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. (i)
Restructuring in the banking and corporate sectors must be closely coordinated
if problems are widespread in both; (ii) poor corporate governance must be
overcome in order to sustainably change corporate or bank structures, and to
contain the risk of renewed financial crisis; (iii) successful implementation
requires low project complexity in terms of the number of components,
counterpart agencies, PIUs, etc., and adequate supervision budget/staffing.
8.      Poverty Category. Not applicable.
9.      Environmental Aspects. Environmental category C; no major environmental
issues.
10.     Program Objective Categories. Private Sector Development (PV) and
Financial Sector Development (EA)
11.     Contact Point    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 2 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 3 -



