Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4385 KO
Loan Agreement
(Financial and Corporate Restructuring Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4385 KO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
"FSC" means the Borrower’s Financial Supervisory Commission, an 
independent government supervisory agency established under and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law Number 5490, dated December 31, 1997, and any successor thereto.
(b)
“FSC Special Account” means the account established for the purpose of 
Parts A, D and G(1) of the Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) of this 
Agreement.
(c)
"KFTC" means the Korean Fair Trade Commission, an independent government 
agency, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Fair Trade Act, dated December 30, 
1996, and any successor thereto.
(d)
"KICPA" means the Korean Institute of Chartered Public Accountants, a 
regulated professional association registered with MOFE under the Borrower’s Chartered 
Public Accountant Act and operating under its Charter dated December 11, 1954, and any 
successor thereto.
(e)
“MOFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto.
(f)
“MOFE Special Account” means the account established for the purpose of 
Parts B, C, E, F and G(2) of the Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) of 
this Agreement.
(g)
"MOJ" means the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the FSC Special Account and the 
MOFE Special Account.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
eight million Dollars ($48,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars: (i) a special deposit account for the purpose of Parts A, D and G(1) of the 
Project (the FSC Special Account), and (ii) a special deposit account for the purpose 
of Parts B, C, E, F and G(2) of the Project (the MOFE Special Account), each in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  3
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
Page  5
(a)
that the project implementation units within MOFE and FSC, referred to in 
Paragraph 2(a) and (b), respectively, of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, shall have been 
established with terms of reference and budgetary resources acceptable to the Bank and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b)
that the project steering committee referred to in Paragraph 2(c) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall have been established with terms of reference and 
composition acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Kwachon, Kyonggido
Republic of Korea
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOFE
K23243
Kwachon
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Dong-Kyu Shin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
100%
and training:
(a) under Parts A, D
  37,900,000
and G(1) of the Project
(b) under Part B(1)
     940,000
of the Project
(c) under Part B(2)
     500,000
of the Project
(d) under Part C of
     800,000
the Project
(e) under Part E of
   1,500,000
the Project
(f) under Part F of
     420,000
the Project
(g) under Part G(2)
     100,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods under Part C
   1,200,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Unallocated
   4,640,000
TOTAL
  48,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  7
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$4,800,000,  may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 26, 1998; and 
(b)
expenditures under Category 1(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, until the Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to the Bank 
that MOFE and KICPA have entered into a cooperation agreement satisfactory to the Bank 
pursuant to Paragraph 7(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for the employment 
of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) training, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (i) reduce the risk 
of systemic failure in its banking and corporate sectors and risks emanating from 
public foreign debt; (ii) improve the financial soundness and reduce other structural 
weaknesses of domestic banks and corporations; and (iii) deepen the global market 
orientation and transparency of its state institutions, banks and corporations, 
through implementation of financial and corporate sector reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Financial Sector Supervision and Crisis Management
(1)
Strengthening the capacity of FSC to supervise the Borrower’s financial sector 
through: (a) development and implementation of strategies, polices and procedures for 
the adoption and enforcement of coordinated financial sector prudential regulations; 
and (b) development and implementation of an efficient organizational structure, 
including operational policies, human resource development programs and management 
information systems; with the provision of consultants’ services and training.
(2)
Development and implementation of financial crisis management policies and 
procedures; with the provision of consultants’ services and training.
Part B:
Capital Markets Development
(1)
Enhancing the development of the Borrower’s securities and bond markets through: 
(a) reform of the securities market regulatory framework to place a greater emphasis 
on self-regulation; (b) rationalization of the securities markets to improve 
efficiency, safeguards, transparency, innovation and competitiveness in the market; 
(c) analysis of bond market demand and formulation of policy recommendations for 
primary bond market development; (d) provision of training for selected technical 
staff of MOFE and FSC in issues related to bond markets; (e) organization of 
government bond auctions and standardization of instruments; and (f) improving 
secondary bond market liquidity by implementation of a market maker network and 
related market enhancements; with the provision of consultants’ services and training.
(2)
Improving the transparency of accounting and auditing practices, enhancing the 
institutional framework for accounting and audit and strengthening financial oversight 
in the private sector, through reviewing measures for:  (a) development of an enhanced 
continuing professional education program for accountants; (b) enhancement of the 
system of professional ethics and code of conduct for qualified accountants; (c) 
rationalization of the institutional framework for setting standards for and 
regulating and overseeing the accounting and auditing profession; (d) extension of 
external audit requirements to additional entities and introduction of market-based 
contracting for auditing; and (e) the feasibility of the introduction of audit 
committees of boards of directors of listed companies, banks and other financial 
Page  8
institutions; with the provision of consultants’ services.
Part C:
Debt Management Improvement
(1)
Improving Borrower’s public sector debt management through: (a) strengthening 
MOFE’s technical capacity to identify and evaluate financial risks; (b) formulating 
measures of financial risk and recommended risk levels; (c) designing and implementing 
a financial strategy to achieve recommended risk levels; and
(2)
establishment of an early-warning system model to monitor indicators of foreign 
exchange risk trends; with the provision of consultants’ services, training and 
equipment.
Part D:
Corporate Restructuring
Strengthening the capacity of financial institutions within the territory of the 
Borrower to manage the workout of large corporate debts through: (a) development of 
detailed recommendations for voluntary corporate and financial restructuring; and (b) 
development of business diagnostic procedures and restructuring recommendations for 
corporations undergoing voluntary workouts; with the provision of consultants’ 
services.
Part E:
Insolvency and Corporate Governance
(1)
Enhancement of the Borrower’s framework for corporate insolvency procedures 
through:  (a) conduct of a diagnostic review of the insolvency system and preparation 
of a work plan for development and implementation of reforms;  (b) preparation of 
legislation to carry out the recommended reforms of the present system;  (c) provision 
of training to judges, court officials, insolvency practitioners and selected 
officials of MOJ in insolvency issues; and (d) conduct of a public information 
campaign with respect to the objectives and benefits of a reliable insolvency system; 
with the provision of consultants’ services and training. 
(2)
Development of a mechanism to facilitate monitoring by market participants and 
stakeholders of corporate performance, through:  (a) conduct of a study of the role 
and functions of boards of directors; (b) provision of training to selected officials 
of MOJ and MOFE in corporate governance issues; (c) preparation of changes to 
applicable laws to strengthen the duties of directors to act in the interests of the 
company and to reduce or eliminate barriers to the exercise of minority shareholder 
rights;  (d) conduct of a study of the introduction of class action law suits by 
shareholders of listed companies; and (e) conduct of a workshop on corporate 
governance reform and to present the findings of said studies; with the provision of 
consultants’ services and training.
Part F:
Competition Policy
Improving the effectiveness of the Borrower’s competition policy and 
strengthening the KFTC through adoption and application of selected international 
competition policy practices; with the provision of consultants’ services and 
training.
Part G:
Project Implementation Support
(1)
Enhancement of the capacity of the project implementation unit within FSC for 
Project implementation, with the provision of consultants’ services and training.
(2)
Enhancement of the capacity of the project implementation unit within MOFE for 
Project implementation, with the provision of consultants’ services and training. * * 
* The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
Page  9
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2004
through April 15, 2013
2,400,000
On October 15, 2013
2,400,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  10
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for urgently required financial sector crisis monitoring under Part 
A(2) of the Project, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
Page  11
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank no later than the last day of each calendar quarter during the first year 
of Project  implementation and no later than the last day of each calendar semester 
thereafter, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project;
(a)
a project implementation unit under MOFE, with terms of reference and 
budgetary resources acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, for the purpose of carrying out Parts B, C, E, F and G(2) of the Project; 
(b)
a project implementation unit under FSC, with terms of reference and 
budgetary resources acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate 
Page  12
numbers, for the purpose of carrying out Parts A, D and G(1) of the Project; and
(c)
a project steering committee, with terms of reference and composition 
acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of overall coordination of the implementation 
of the Project.
3.
Financial Sector Supervision and Crisis Management
The Borrower shall, through FSC, carry out a program of training under Part A of 
the Project in accordance with a plan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Capital Markets Development and Debt Management Improvement
The Borrower shall, through MOFE, and in close collaboration with Borrower’s 
Task Force on Advancement of Capital Markets:
(a)
conduct the bond market demand analysis under Part B(1)(c) of the Project 
under terms of reference and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank; 
and
(b)
carry out a program of training under Parts B and C of the Project in 
accordance with a plan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Corporate Restructuring
In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, through FSC:
(a)
ensure that an initial review of the Borrower’s regulatory framework with 
respect to the environmental impact, including potential environmental liabilities, 
resulting from enterprise closure, bankruptcy or sale is conducted and furnished to 
the Bank; and
(b)
ensure that consultants engaged to provide assistance on corporate 
restructuring matters take into account such impact and potential liabilities in light 
of such framework.
6.
Corporate Governance and Insolvency
(a)
In carrying out Part E(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
MOJ: (i) establish a steering committee, with terms of reference and composition 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the overall coordination such Part; (ii) carry out a 
program of training in accordance with a plan and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (iii) conduct the diagnostic review under Part E(1)(a) of the Project under 
terms of reference and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
In carrying out Part E(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
MOJ: (i) establish a steering committee, with terms of reference and composition 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the overall coordination of such Part; (ii) carry out a 
program of training in accordance with a plan and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (iii) conduct the studies under Parts E(2)(a) and E(2)(d) of the Project 
under terms of reference and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank .
7.
Accounting and Auditing Systems
In carrying out Part B(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MOFE:
(a)
enter into an agreement with KICPA, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, under which KICPA agrees to cooperate with MOFE in the implementation of 
such Part; and 
(b)
conduct the review of measures under such Part under terms of reference 
and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
8.
Competition Policy
The Borrower shall, through KFTC, carry out a program of training under Part F 
of the Project in accordance with a plan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  13
9.
The Borrower shall, no later than the last day of each calendar quarter, 
commencing September 30, 1998, during the first year of Project implementation, and no 
later than the last day of each calendar semester thereafter, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank for approval a draft work plan for the carrying out of the Project during the 
subsequent two calendar quarters, including detailed training programs to be 
implemented during such period under the Project.
10.
The Borrower shall, no later than October 1, 1998, in consultation with the 
Bank, design and implement systems of Project financial management and accounting 
acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means in respect of: (i) the MOFE Special 
Account, Categories (1)(b), (1)(c), (1)(d), (1)(e), (1)(f), (1)(g) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the FSC Special 
Account, Category (1)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of: (i) the MOFE 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000; and (ii) the FSC Special Account, 
an amount equivalent to $3,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount in respect of: (A) the MOFE 
Special Account, equivalent to $250,000; and (B) the FSC Special Account, equivalent 
to $1,500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for: (1) the eligible Categories in 
respect of the MOFE Special Account shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000; and (2) the eligible Categories in respect of the FSC Special Account 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
Page  14
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  15
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
