
                            COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                      ECONOMIC RECOVERYSUPPORTOPERATION
                              CURRENCYAND EXCHANGERATES
                                     US$1.OO : EC$2.67
                                        FISCALYEAR
                                       July 1-June 30
                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AID         Agricultural IndustrialDevelopmentBank
CARICOM     CaribbeanCommunity
CARTAC      CaribbeanRegional Technical Assistance Center
CAS         CountryAssistance Strategy
CDB         CaribbeanDevelopmentBank
CFAA        CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CIDA        CanadianInternationalDevelopmentAgency
CPAR        Country ProcurementAssessment Report
DFID        UKDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment
DOMLEC      DominicaElectricity Services, Ltd.
DSS         DominicaSocial Security
ECCB        EasternCaribbeanCentral Bank
ECCU        EasternCaribbeanCurrency Union
ECEMP       EasternCaribbeanEconomic ManagementProject(CIDA)
ERSO        Economic Recovery Support Operation
EU          EuropeanUnion
FAD         FiscalAffairs Division (IMF)
FATF        FinancialAction Task Force (OECD)
FERP        Fiscal and Economic Recovery Project (DFID)
FSAP        FinancialSector Assessment Program
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GEF          GlobalEnvironmentalFacility
GOCD         Government of the Commonwealthof Dominica
IDA          InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDF          InstitutionalDevelopmentFund
IMF          InternationalMonetary Fund
I-PRSP      InterimPoverty ReductionStrategyPaper
MDGs         Millennium DevelopmentGoals
MoFP        Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOU         Memorandumof Understanding
MTPSRS       MediumTermPublic Sector ReformStrategy
NCB          NationalCommercial Bank
NPL          NonPerformingLoan
OECS         Organizationof EasternCaribbeanStates
PSIP         Public Sector InvestmentProgram
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility
PRSP         Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
SBA          Stand-By Arrangement
SDR          Special DrawingRights
SIGFIS       StandardizedIntegratedGovernmentFinancialInformationSystem
VAT          Value Added Tax
UNDP         UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
XDS          ExternalDebtService
XGS          Exports of Goods and Services

      Vice President:              Davidde Ferranti
      Country Director:            Caroline Anstey
      SectorDirector:              Ernest0May
      SectorManager:               Mauricio Carrizosa
      SectorLeader:                Antonella Bassani
      Task Team Leader:            CamilleNuamah

                                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                     COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                        ECONOMIC RECOVERY SUPPORT OPERATION

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS



       PROGRAMAND CREDITSUMMARY                         .....................................................................................  i
       PROGRAM  DOCUMENT            ........................................................................................................   1
         PARTI.       Background and Rationale...........................................................................                      1
         PARTI1.      Dominica's Structural Challenges ...............................................................                         5
            A. Regaining fiscal sustainability .........................................................................                       5
            B.                                                                                                                                 8
            C. Protecting social gains ...................................................................................
                  Stimulating growth and economic diversification...........................................
                                                                                                                                              11
         PARTI11. The Government's Program ......................................................................                             13
            A. The macroeconomic stabilization program ...................................................                                    13
            B.    Improving fiscal and financial management..................................................                                 14
                                                                                                                                              18
            D.
            C. Promoting growth and diversification ...........................................................
                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.................................................................                           20
         PART IV.     The Proposed Operation............................................................................                      20

            B.
            A. Objectives and description.............................................................................
                  Rationale........................................................................................................           20
                                                                                                                                              20
            C.                                                                                                                                23
            D. Implementation. monitoring andevaluation..................................................
                  Prior actions and benchmarks ........................................................................
                                                                                                                                              24
                                                                                                                                              24
            F.
            E.    Environmental and social issues....................................................................

            G.    Fiduciary arrangements ................................................................................. 25
                  Benefits and risks...........................................................................................               25
       ANNEXES ............................................................................................................................   28
                                                                                                                                              28
          ANNEX 2.
          ANNEX 1.            Letter of Development Policy............................................................
                              Key Economic Indicators ..................................................................                      41
          ANNEX 3.
          ANNEX 4.            Dominica At A Glance ...................................................................... 43
                              Timetable of Key Processing Events.................................................                             45
                                                                                                                                              46
          ANNEX 6.
          ANNEX 5.            Status of World Bank Operations ......................................................
                              InternationalMonetary Fund.............................................................
                                                                                                                                              49




This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                      .       .


                       COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                ECONOMICRECOVERYSUPPORT OPERATION

                      PROGRAMAND CREDIT SUMMARY


Borrower:                  The Commonwealth of Dominica

Amount:                    SDR 2.1 million (US$3 million equivalent)

Terms:                     IDA terms for blend countries (10 years grace and 35 years
                           repayment with principal repayable at 2.5% per annum for years
                           11-20and 5% per annum for years 21-35).

ImplementingAgency:        Ministry of Finance and Planning(Mom)

Objectives:                The proposed Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO)
                           would provide urgently needed budget support to finance
                           continued public service delivery while the Government of
                           Dominica (GOCD) corrects an unsustainable fiscal position,
                           implements measures to create a stable macroeconomic platform
                           essential to achieving a resumption of economic growth, and
                           develops a broad structural reform agenda for the medium term.
                           The ERSO supports the Government's immediate objectives o f
                           (a) restoring fiscal balance, by promoting actions to improve
                           financial and debt management, reinforce the Government's
                           budget constraint and achieve sustainable expenditure reductions
                           through public sector reform; and (b) encouraging a resumption
                           of growth, by supporting actions to strengthen the financial
                           sector, increase the productivity of the public investment, and
                           improving the climate for private investment. Simultaneously,
                           the authorities are working with the World Bank and other
                           development partners to formulate and begin implementation of
                           a medium term program of reforms aimed at addressing the
                           economy's remaining structural problems.         These will be
                           included in the Government's upcoming Poverty Reduction
                           Strategy Paperto be completedin 2004.

Description:               The ERSO supports reform measures in the following main
                           areas:

(a) Financial management.  The   difficult  fiscal   situation calls   for  improving the
                           Government's expenditure and cash management. This has been
                           achieved through: establishing a cash management system that
                           adjusts budget allocations and enforces commitment levels on a
                           monthly basis in line with forecasted revenue inflows and cash
                           availability; reducing the number of government bank accounts;
                           and appointing an internal auditor to ensure the implementation
                          of new financial management procedures at the ministry level.

(b) Debt management.      The Government has taken steps to strengthen debt management
                          by consolidating the management of external and domestic debt;
                          and preparing and starting to implement a comprehensive debt
                          strategy toward stabilizing its public debt dynamics.

                                          i

(c) Public expenditure allocation and effectiveness. As part of regaining fiscal balance and
                               supporting a resumption of growth, the Government has
                               undertaken measures to strengthen the public sector investment
                               program (PSIP) through a more streamlined, growth-oriented
                               portfolio, and has adopted revised procedures for its preparation
                               and execution. It i s also protecting critical non-wage recurrent
                               expenditures in priority sectors, despite the very difficult fiscal
                               situation.

(d) Public Sector Reform.      The authorities have prepared and are undertalung a
                               comprehensive reform of the public sector which includes
                               measures to improve public administration; strengthen economic
                               management; enhance the enabling environment for private
                               investment; and rationalize social service delivery and improve
                               their targeting.

(e) Financial sector.          The authorities are undertaking measures to improve the health
                               of the financial sector and create a hard budget constraint for the
                               Government.      These include measures to: (i)reduce the
                               Government's shareholding in NCB to a minority position and
                               strengthen the bank's management of its government debt
                               portfolio; and (ii) improve regulation of the large credit union
                               subsector. In addition, the Government has resumed paying
                               regular contributions to the Dominica Social Security after
                               several years of interrupted payments.

(f) Privateinvestment climate. The Government is addressing two important distortions that
                               proved costly in the past - port charges and petroleum pricing -
                               and correcting weaknesses in the regulatory framework for
                               electricity supply. The Dominica Port Authority has effectively
                               reduced port handling charges after consultations with trade
                               unions and other stakeholders. Ad hoc price adjustments for
                               petroleum products have been replaced by a transparent price
                               adjustment mechanism that reflects movements in international
                               prices and which will stabilize Government revenues from
                               petroleum imports.       The Government is also introducing
                               legislative and regulatory changes to ensure adequate incentives
                               for efficiency and consumer protection in electricity supply.

Poverty Aspects:               The ERSO supports the Government's efforts towards a
                               resumption of economic growth and employment creation
                               through the measures outlined above. More immediately, the
                               ERSO also creates fiscal room for protecting essential recurrent
                               expenditures in the priority social sectors and supports the
                               formulation of a program to rationalize the delivery of social
                               services and improve targeting to lower income groups under a
                               Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy. In addition, the
                               Government resumption of contributions to the Dominica Social
                               Security (DSS) will help ensure its future solvency and restore
                               financial sector soundness, and strengthening regulation and
                               oversight - particularly of the credit unions - will protect the
                               savings of small depositors.




                                             11

Benefitsand risks:    The overall main benefit of the operation is to contribute to
                      poverty reduction through two complementary ways. First, the
                      reform program supported by the ERSO aims at correcting
                      Dominica's unsustainable fiscal situation by improving public
                      expenditure management, launching a process to rationalize
                      public service delivery, restoring financial sector soundness, and
                      creating    fiscal  room for      financing   essential recurrent
                      expenditures. Second, the ERSO supports the first stage of a
                      multi-year effort to accelerate economic growth through reform
                      measures aimed at reducing private sector distortions and
                      improving Dominica's competitiveness.        As indicated in the
                      Letter of Development Policy, the Government intends to pursue
                      implementation of the reforms initiated in this first phase and i s
                      preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which will
                      detail the second stage of its reform agenda, whose main pillars
                      are public sector reform, debt restructuring, financial sector
                      strengthening and improvement of the private investment
                      climate.

                      All prior actions for this single-tranche operation have been met
                      satisfactorily. While policy reversal of these actions is highly
                      unlikely, swift implementation of further stages of the
                      Government's reform agenda i s however uncertain. The country
                      faces a number of domestic and external risks that may pose a
                      threat to fiscal stability and economic recovery. Inparticular: (a)
                      the outcome of the debt restructuring exercise is uncertain and
                      may significantly alter the macroeconomic framework; (b)
                      existing and severe capacity constraints in the public sector
                      could hinder the implementation of follow up planned reform
                      measures; (c) after a prolonged recession and the introduction of
                      difficult stabilization measures in 2003, delays in economic
                      recovery over the coming year could lead to reform fatigue on
                      the part of the population and a deterioration of the
                      Government's fragile political consensus; and (d) external
                      shocks, including natural disasters or continued global economic
                      slowdown could delay the resumption of fiscal sustainability.

                      Protracted negotiations or a particularly modest reduction in the
                      public debt levels as a result of the debt restructuringexercise
                      could require Dominica to undertake a significantly higher fiscal
                      adjustment or seek to obtain additional concessional financing in
                      order to achieve fiscal sustainability.        Given the already
                      achieved and planned adjustment efforts, and already committed
                      donor support, this would be challenging.            However, the
                      Government is committed to adjusting the fiscal targets in line
                      with the outcomes of the debt restructuring exercise in order to
                      ensure fiscal sustainability.

                      To mitigate the capacity risks, the World Bank, in close
                      coordination with other donors, has provided significant
                      technical assistanceto the Government of Dominica and plans to
                      continue doing so, along with regular program supervision, joint
                      missions with other donors and the provision of analytical and
                      advisory activities.       To mitigate the political risks, the

                                     111
                                     ...

                          Government and the Bank have consulted extensively with trade
                          unions, private sector organizations and political groups on the
                          reform agenda to increase understanding of the difficult
                          challenges facing the country and build support for the
                          stabilization and structural reform agenda for 2003 and beyond.
                          At the request of civil society, the authorities have recently
                          begun reporting on a monthly basis to the Independent
                          Monitoring Group of civil society representatives, including
                          religious organizations.

Scheduleof disbursements: Single-tranche of US$3 million equivalent to be disbursed upon
                          effectiveness.

Project IDNumber:         PO78841

Map:                      IBRD 13502R




                                        i v

                         INTERNATIONAL          DEVELOPMENT          ASSOCIATION


                                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                              FORA PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                              TO THE COMMONWEALTH OFDOMINICA
                     FORAN ECONOMIC            RECOVERY SUPPORTOPERATION


1.      This programdocument proposesa single-tranche adjustment credit inthe amount of US$3 million
equivalent to support an Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO) for the Commonwealth of
Dominica. The operation is part of the Bank's response to the Government of Dominica's (GOCD)
request for assistance in support of the country's fiscal adjustment and structural reform program and is
consistent with the broad objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy for the Eastern Caribbean
(discussed at the Boardin 2001).

                                PART I. BACKGROUND RATIONALE  AND

2.      Dominica i s a small Caribbean island state (pop. 71,000) with a primarily agricultural economy
concentrated in bananas, a small export-oriented manufacturing sector, and off-shore and tourism service
activities. The share of output in agriculture has declined steadily over the last ten years, particularly
following the reduction in preferential market access to the UK and Europe. Although incomes are
relatively high at US$3,180 per capita, poverty rates are also persistently high (39 perc.ent of the
population is poor and 15 percent i s indigent),` reflecting high unemployment, inadequate household
insurance mechanisms and considerable macroeconomic volatility associated with Dominica's economic
size and location in the hurricane belt.2 However, the country does have good social indicators as a result
of sustained investments in human development since independence, and these indicators are not
significantly different for the poor and the non-poor, with the exception of a small group of indigenous
people - Caribs, who make up 4 percent of the population and 7 percent of the poor - and in the area of
secondary education attainment. Notably, women as individuals are no more likely to be poor than men,
although female-headed households (makingup 34 percent of population versus 39 percent of the poor)
are somewhat over-represented among poor households. In this context, reducing poverty in Dominica
will require creating jobs through economic growth, improving the targeting of basic services, including
to the Carib community, and expanding secondary education to give the poor greater access to income-
earning opportunities.

3.      Dominica i s a member of the Organization of Eastem Caribbean States (OECS) and the Eastern
Caribbean Currency Union (ECCU) with which it shares a common monetary and exchange rate policy
administered by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The ECCB manages a quasi-currency
board arrangement supporting an exchange rate peg fixed to the US.dollar since 1975 at EC$2.67.

4.      Recent economic developments. Dominica is currently suffering an unprecedented decline in
output and a sharply deteriorated fiscal position, mainly due to a loss of competitiveness and a severe
worsening of its external environment because of declining preferential market access for its banana
exports3, the post-September 11, 2001 contraction in tourism, the global economic slowdown more
generally, and a retrenchment of Dominica's offshore sector due to increased international scrutiny.

' On the basis of a locallydefined povertyline.
  Dominica Country Poverty Assessment, CDB/GOD, 2003.
  In 1998, the WTO ruledagainst EUpreferentialaccess for banana importsfrom the African, Caribbeanand
Pacific states. Inresponse, the EUintroducedagradual programto eliminate tariffs on non-ACPbanana importsby
end 2005, at which time it will also eliminateACP quotas for banana imports.
                                                        1

Delayed fiscal adjustment to declining growth rates, combined with an increase in commercial borrowing
for unproductive public investments, exacerbated the macroeconomic situation and resulted in a rapid
increase in the central government deficit, a doubling of the public sector debt in recent years, and the
accumulation of domestic and external arrears.

5.      Dominica's economy performed reasonably well over the 1980s with growth rates averaging 4.6
percent per year, fueled by increasing bananaproduction under a preferential trading regime with the EU
and UK, and favorable exchange rate movements against its major trading partner, the UK. During this
period, the country undertook significant trade and tax reforms and public finances strengthened
considerably. However, following a catastrophic hurricane in 1988, sharp public sector wage increases in
FY90/91 which undermined competitiveness, and growing uncertainty about trade preferences', growth
slowed significantly duringthe 1990s averaging 2.7 percent between 1990-98. Other exports - primarily
soap products sold to Jamaica - overtook bananas, and tourism receipts and earnings from a budding
offshore sector grew steadily.

6.      From 1999, however, the economy began to experience a more rapid slowdown marked by a
decline in manufactured exports, the tapering-off of tourism receipts, and further damage to the banana
crop causedby the Hurricane Lenny (November 1999). Muchof the decline in manufactured exports was
due to the steady appreciation of the real exchange rate since 1996. As Jamaica reduced external tariffs in
line with its regional agreements, Dominica's exports to that country began to face competition from
cheaper imports from outside the region. At the same time, tourism sectors across the OECS were being
challenged by the mass market strategies of other Caribbean destinations. Then in 2001, Dominica was
further hit by the impact of a severe drought on already dwindling banana production, the impact of
September 11,2001 on tourism and offshore services, and by the global economic slowdown.

                     FIGURE1. DOMINICA:GROWTH            AND INVESTMENT 1983-2003

   ("4 ,       (a) Real GDP Growth (%), 1983-2003               (b) Gross Dom. Investment 1984-2003
                                                       (% GDP)
                        ___-____.____________                                              ~-  ___Public




                                                           w
                                                           m   w           r  v   w  w    m   o   c   oo
                                                                                                      u

                                                           r r r r r r r r "
                                                           m   cm omm co
                                                                          m
                                                                          o  mm   mm mm m   mm oo


7.      Combined with mounting debt service from a rapidly increasing public sector debt, delays in
adjusting to the declininggrowth rates causedthe overall central government deficit to reach a high of 11
percent of GDP while the primary balance (including grants) fell to -5.9 percent of GDP in FYOO/Ol.
The economy contracted by 4.2 percent in 2001 and a further 4.7 percent in 2002, exacerbating an already
weakened fiscal position. Private investment contracted by around 80 percent between 1998 and 2002.
By December 2002, domestic arrears had mounted to around 9.2 percent of GDP and external arrears to
2.1 percent of GDP. With a public debt burden estimated at 112 percent of GDP in June 2003, the
authorities had limitedroomfor maneuver to address the ongoing recession.

8.      Recent social developments. Given the prolonged economic recession in Dominica and the
slowdown inthe sub-region and global economies, the poverty level i s likely to have increasedrecently in
Dominica. The poverty headcount of 39 percent, as measured by a 2002 household survey, represents a
significant increase over the poverty rate of 28 percent last measured in 1995 (although the indicators are

  The WTO action on EUpreferences for ACP banana imports began as early as 1991.
                                                   2

not precisely comparable). Fifteen percent of the population are now estimated to be indigent (in extreme
poverty). This i s consistent with qualitative reports about the impact of the banana sector retrenchment
on rural households, and job losses in the private sector on account of the recent contraction.
Unemployment rates have risen to 25 percent in 2002 and are even higher among the poor (40 percent in
2002).

9.     Government's response to the crisis. In an effort to stabilize the economy, the Government of
Dominica obtained a one-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) from the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) in August 2002. At the same time, the Government requested assistance from the Bank and
preparation of this operation was initiated. Shortly after, however, implementation of the Fund-supported
program went off-track in late 2002 in part due to a deeper-than-expected economic contraction and
policy slippages reflecting a combination of capacity constraints and problems in securing political
support for structural reforms. Following extensive public consultations and the adoption of corrective
measures taken by the authorities in July 2003 inthe context of the FY03/04 budget, includinga 5 percent
public sector wage cut, the IMF extended the SBA to early 2004. Implementation under the SBA
remained on track through December 2003, during which time Dominica received significant financial
assistance from donors to fill the 2003 financing gap (see para. 11). In December 2003, the SBA was
followed by a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility from the IMF. The key elements of the
macroeconomic program are a comprehensive debt restructuringexercise aimed to reduce debt levels to a
sustainable level andthe adoption of fiscal measures of around 5 percent of GDP over the next three years
notably through reductions in public employment (see para. 51).

10.    Future prospects. Preliminary indications are that the economy continued to contract in 2003,
albeit at a slower pace, with GDP growth of around -1.0 percent. A resumption of growth is expected in
2004, provided the debt is successfully restructured, no new external shocks emerge, and the stabilization
and structural reforms remain on track. The recovery i s based on the stabilization of the fiscal situation
and projected improvements in the external environment which should serve to boost consumer and
investor confidence. Over the mediumterm, the key sources of growth are expectedto be a resumptionof
private investment mainly in the tourism sector and in non-traditional agricultural production. This is
expected to be spurred by the alleviation of the debt overhang problem and less crowding out by the
public sector, structural reforms in key sectors (Sections 1I.C and III.B), more targeted promotion in the
tourism sector (see Annex 1, para. 25), improved productivity of public investment (paras. 63-64) and
better delivery of growth-related public services (paras. 65 and 68).

11,    Even with the fiscal measures outlined in the PRGF, aimed at improving the primary balance
(includinggrants) to 0.2 percent of GDP in FY03/04, the programenvisages a fiscal deficit of 5.6 percent
of GDP in FY03/04 and an overall financing gap of US$30 million of which US$27 million has been
committed. It i s expected that the remaining gap will be filled by returns from the debt restructuring
exercise.    Indeed, Dominica's fiscal position will remain fragile in the short-term, owing to its
dependence on the outcome of that exercise, the moderate outlook for growth, and the country's
continued vulnerability to external shocks. As such, regaining macroeconomic stability over the medium
term will require a continuous fiscal adjustment over the next few years aimed at bringing public
spending in line with resource availability and stabilizing the reduced levels of public debt.

12.    Rationale for Bank assistance. The proposed credit of US$3 million has been prepared in the
context of strong international cooperation and in close collaboration with the IMF and other donors (see
paras. 94-95). It has benefited from the broad dialogue on stabilization and structural reform measures
that took place in the country in 2003 and the extensive amount of recent analytical work conducted on
Dominica by the Bank and other donors (see paras. 90 and 95).            The credit i s crucial and timely.
Dominica faces not only a difficult socio-political situation following a prolonged and deep recession
which limits the space for reforms, but also a severe cash shortage, and outstanding domestic and external
arrears. Since June 2003, the authorities have shown strong commitment to the reform program by
adopting politically challenging measures under difficult social conditions. The authorities have actively


                                                   3

and successfully engaged the donor community to support their efforts and have significantly
strengthened the level of ownership of the program.

 13.   The proposed credit marks a departure from the standard practice of offering Dominica a blend of
50 percent IDA and 50 percent IBRD terms, under the small island economies exception'. Instead, it
proposes to offer Dominica a 100 percent IDA operation on a one-time exceptional basis, due to the fact
that, given the difficult debt situation and the imminent debt restructuring exercise, the country i s not
currently eligible for IBRD lending2. It is envisaged that Dominica's debt restructuring exercise and
fiscal adjustment, which the Government launched in December 2003, will effectively lower the debt-to-
GDP ratio and restore the country's access to IBRD lending in line with its blend status during 2004.
The next operations for Dominica will, therefore, be on standardblendterms.

 14.   The single tranche approach is well suited to Dominica's current situation and needs. The country
suffers from severe macroeconomic imbalances, capacity constraints in the public sector, limited natural
resources and low growth prospects that are difficult to tackle at once and need a multi-year effort.
Moreover, the country's policy choices are constrained by its membership in the ECCU. The authorities
have adopted a two-stage strategy to address these complex issues in a systematic manner and thus reduce
the risk of a spillover to other ECCU countries. In the first phase, the Government's efforts focus on
stabilization measures to forestall a budgetary crisis through reductions in public expenditures and
increased revenue collection, and on improvements in financial and debt management practices. In this
first phase, the authorities are also implementing some urgent structural reforms to promote private sector
investment and a resumption of growth. These reform measures are laying the groundwork for a second-
stage of reform measures to consolidate and deepen the program, which the Government i s designing with
the help of the donor community and which will be the focus of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) currently under preparation by the Government. The World Bank is helping the Government to
formulate this second stage reform program through analytical work on sources of growth and
competitiveness and the provision of a range of technical assistance. Any possible future Bank assistance
and the definition of its form (lending, analytical work and/or technical assistance) and amounts would be
assessed as a function of the country's performance, the final content of the second-stage reform agenda,
the size of the external financing gap and the Bank's comparative advantage.

15.    This IDA operation is being presentedto the Board although Dominica is believed to be in breach
of the negative pledge covenant on its IBRD loans. Dominica's outstanding debt to IBRDi s about US$4
million and i s being serviced in a timely manner in accordance with the terms of the loan agreements.
Obligations to IBRD average $373,000 per year until 2016, when the current outstanding debt will be
fully repaid. Dominica, under the previous administration, provided security over public assets for bonds
issued in 1999 to a regional investment bank. Based on the information received by the Bank, staff are of
the view that such security contravenes the negative pledge clause for the country's IBRD loans. The
bonds amount to US$29 million and the security provided i s over cash and securities amounting to
approximately US$10 million as well as shares owned by the Government in a local utility.                        The
Government i s committed to resolving the breach and is currently negotiating with the creditor as part of
the ongoing debt restructuring exercise for the bonds to rescind the liens. No new Bank operations will
be processedfor Dominicauntilthe negative pledge situation i s resolved.




'"An exception   to the GNIper capita operational cutoff for IDA eligibility ($865 for Ey04) has been made for
Some small island economies, which otherwise would have little or no access to Bank Group assistance because they
lack creditworthiness. For such countries, IDA funding is considered case by case for the financing of projects and
adjustment programs designed to strengthen creditworthiness." (Operational Manual, OP 3.10 Annex D,Footnote
10).
  Inexceptional circumstances, IDA extends eligibility temporarily to countries that are above the operational cutoff
and are undertaking major adjustment efforts but are not creditworthy for IBRD lending.
                                                       4

                         PART 11. DOMINICA'S         STRUCTURAL CHALLENGES

16.    Dominica i s currently facing the simultaneous challenges of (i)regaining fiscal sustainability and
improving fiscal management; (ii)     stimulating growth and improving the investment climate; while (iii)
protecting past social gains and meeting new challenges in the social sectors. The macroeconomic
outlook suggests that it will take several years to achieve fiscal and debt sustainability and resume a
steady growth path, in particular given the changed external environment and Dominica's continued
vulnerabilities.

A. Regainingfiscal sustainability

17.    Over the past six years, Dominica experienced rising fiscal deficits and increasing debt levels,
associated mainly with slow adjustment to a secular decline in growth rates and an increasein commercial
borrowing to finance public investments. The impact on the economy has been dismal as pressures on the
domestic financial sector mounted and government consumption crowded out private investment.
Dominica needs to correct fiscal imbalances and reduce its debt overhang in order to regain fiscal stability
and create a stable macroeconomic platform for attracting investment and achieving economic growth.
However, the country has limited flexibility to significantly reduce government expenditures in the short
run and maintain basic services because of the fixed costs of public goods in a small state and the
structure of public spending (see paras. 24 and 25). In addition, the tax burden i s already high at around
28 percent of GDP.

18.    Under its stabilization program, the Government has taken measures to reduce expenditures and
increase revenuesaimed at increasing the primary balance (includinggrants) from -1.6 percent of GDP in
FY02/03 to 0.2 percent in FY03/04. However, the country will needto embark on a broader public sector
program to reduce public expenditures in line with the macroeconomic outlook over the coming years, in
order to attain the fiscal targets set out under the InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP, see
para, 48).   The Government will also need to focus on tightening expenditure controls, improving
efficiency of spending and better management of public debt if it i s to maintain fiscal stability over time
and avoid a recurrence of the recent trends.

              FIGURE2. DOMINICA:FISCALACCOUNTS AND EXTERNAL                 DEBT,1993-2002


                                                        phGDp)  (b) Debt and Debt Service, 1994-2003  ("4
                                                                                                       25

                                                                -int/curr  rev --- - - - - - - -
                                                                --cXDS/XGS                             20

                                                                                                       15

                                                                                                       10

                                                                                                       5

                                                                                                       0




19.    Reducing debt overhang and improving debt management. Prior to mid 1998, Dominica's public
debt stock and debt service were declining (see Figure 2b). Over the last five years, the debt stock rose
from 60 percent in FY98/99 to 112 percent of GDP in FY02/03. The majority of this was due to a rapid
build-upof external debt from 34 percent of GDP in FY98/99 to 84 percent in FY02/03, stemming from
four commercial borrowings incurred during 1999-2000. Approximately US$63 million was borrowed to
finance poorly conceived public investments (that increased public investment from 7 percent of GDP in
                                                     5

1997 to 17 percent of GDP in 2000) whose impact on economic growth is questionable.' As of June
2003, traditional bilateral and multilateral loans accounted for 65 percentof the external debt stock and 50
percent of the total debt. Domestically, the Government exploited captive creditors like the state-owned
National Commercial Bank (NCB), whose exposure to the public sector reached 120 percent of its total
capital and reserves by end 2002 and the Dominica Social Security (DSS) which holds one-third of the
Government's domestic financing and a significant percentage of its recent external bond issues. In
addition, by December 2002, the central government had accumulated 9.2 percent of GDP in domestic
payment arrears, mainly to the social security fund (5.1 percent of GDP) and public utilities, but also to
local suppliers, and external arrears of 2.1 percent of GDP.

20.    The level of public debt has imposed a heavy burden on the economy. Public debt service has
become onerous, projected at 36 percent of government revenuesduring FY03/04, with interest payments
expected to reach 21 percent of current revenues in FY03/04 and external debt service estimated at 21
percent of exports of goods and services during2003.

21.    In general, Dominica needs to revamp its system of public debt management, both as a means to
increase transparency and accountability, as well as to include an effective debt management strategy at
the center of its macroeconomic framework. It will be important for the authorities to avoid any new non-
concessional borrowing until the debt stock falls to more sustainable levels.

22.    Reducing public expenditure through public sector reform. The level of public expenditures in
Dominica as a share of GDP rose sharply between FY93/94 and FYOO/Ol due to sharp increases in capital
investment and a steady but gradual upward creep incurrent spending. Current primary expenditures rose
from 23 percent to 28 percent of GDP between FY95/96 and FY02/03, mainly due to increases in the
wage bill which grew by 4 percent of GDP over the same period, and transfers which increased by 3
percent of GDP, while spending on goods and services fell to the lowest share of GDP in a over a decade.
The increase inthe wage billhas been driven mainly by a 9 percent increase inthe number of personnel in
established posts, the majority in the social sectors. Real wages have been essentially flat for the past
decade, while the lack of vacancies, low turnover and limited use of contract employees suggest that wage
levels are not a systemic problem.

23.    At the same time, findings from a recent Bank Public Expenditure Review for Dominica suggest
that the sectoral allocation of public spendingis broadly adequate vis-&vis the social sectors, with around
6.6 percent of GDP going to education, 4.3 percent of GDP to health, and 5.6 percent to social protection*
inrecent years. Ineducation and health, the allocations across sub-sectors are also appropriate, given the
needs in D~minica.~




' These include(i) bondissues totaling US$48million originally intendedto finance the constructionof a new
                  two
internationalairport which later provedto be infeasible- land was purchasedbuthas not beenutilized; (ii)  an
US$11millioncommercial bank loanpartially guaranteedby ECGD (UK)to finance the constructionof a financial
complex which still has significant vacancies owing to retrenchmentin the offshore sector; and (iii)a US$2.5
million build-operate-lease-transferarrangement for the constructionof a netballstadium, involving commercial
financingfor construction.
  Includingsocial security.
  Pre-primaryeducationreceives 0.2 percentof recurrent spending on education, primary (includingjunior
secondary)receives 48 percent, general secondaryreceives 33 percent, tertiary receives 8 percent, and
administration receives 13 percent. Fifty-six percent of the healthrecurrent budget goes to secondarycare and 35
percent to primary.
                                                        6

                FIGURE3. DOMINICA:STRUCTURE OF PUBLICEXPENDITURE,                          1993-2002

        (a) Current and Capital Expenditure, 1993-2003     70 - (b) Structure of Current Expenditures,1993-2002
                                                                - - - - - _ - _ _
                                                                    -            - _ - - 11Wages ii Sal GC~SSew
                                                                                                            &      1
                                                                                  _ _ _ _1c1Transfers   hterest




24.    This brief expenditure analysis highlights the challenges of curbing expenditures. Whereas the
sectoral allocation may be reasonable, the level of spending is no longer affordable and points to the need
for reforms to improve efficiency and cost effectiveness. Current modes of service delivery are relatively
effective but too costly. In education and health, wages and salaries consume a huge share of public
spending - 92 percent of current expenditures in education and 74 percent in health - in part because of
the large number of schools and health facilities that serve small communities. As a result, when fiscal
resources are scarce, as they have been in recent years, maintenance of facilities and material supplies
have been severely under-funded, negatively affecting service quality and impacting social outcomes.
The Government needs to consider more efficient and affordable modes of service delivery which could
necessitate consolidation of schools, clinics and hospitals if it i s to address the large fiscal deficits. Inthe
near term, however, it will be essential to protect critical non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority
sectors of health, education and community development.

25.    It is clear that reducing the sizeable wage bill will be the key to reducing primary current
expenditures in line with resource availability. Spending on transfers consists primarily (83 percent) of
retirement benefits, social assistance and commitments to international and regional organizations, while
spending on goods and services have already been squeezed by rising interest payments. Although a 5
percent wage cut and a hiring freeze have yielded some budget savings over the past year, further
expenditure reductions will have to come from reductions in employment numbers. However, because
there is little scope for widespread job cuts while maintaining basic services, a radical change in the
existing mode of service delivery, particularly in health, education and security (these account for around
70 percent of establishedposts) will be needed.

26.    Improving the productivity of public investment. A third major challenge in addressing public
expenditure management relates to the public sector investment program.                     Capital expenditure has
fluctuated significantly over recent years (Figure 3a) along with its sectoral allocation and sources of
financing. This situation reflects political interference, inadequate project selection analysis and weak
donor coordination rather than evolving investment needs. Regarding financing, the Government has
traditionally utilized scarce local resources, and more recently foreign commercial loans, for investment
projects, while a substantial amount of grant resources, in particular from the European Union (EU), have
remained underutilized because of institutional and administrative bottlenecks. Implementation rates on
both local- and donor-financed projects have been very low because of weak implementation capacity,
cumbersome procurement processes and poor monitoring. Recent examples of poorly conceived or
executed large projects include an unfeasible international airport project, a sports facility which remains
incomplete, and a new financial complex which remains largely unoccupied because of a shortage of
clients from the declining offshore sector. Improving the focus of the Public Sector Investment Program


                                                        7

(PSIP) towards growth-enhancing and labor-intensive projects, utilizing external concessional financing
and improving its implementationrate are critical to support a resumption of growth.

27.    Strengthening revenue mobilization through tax reform. Although the tax system in Dominica
has a good balance between direct (28 percent of tax revenues) and indirect taxes (72 percent), within
each category there are elements that reduce buoyancy and distort incentives for resource allocation. In
particular, Dominica relies too heavily on the taxation of imports, which accounts for over 50 percent of
tax revenues, and would benefit from a comprehensive and modem sales tax like the VAT. Inaddition,
the income tax base is too narrow because of overly generous deductions and exemptions. Liberal fiscal
incentives erode revenue intake while "discretionary" duty and tax concessions and collections arrears
create unfair advantages in the private sector. In recent years, Dominica has foregone approximately 5
percent of GDP annually in customs duties because of concessions. Inthe short run, the authorities need
to close a number of loopholes in the current tax framework and improve administration. Inthe medium
term, the country will need to gradually replace volatile import taxes with more stable and broad-based
consumption and income taxes.

28.    In2001, the OECS countries committed to reduceconcessionsacrossthe sub-region andappointed
a high-level Tax Commission to make recommendations for, inter alia, harmonizing their fiscal regimes.
More recently, the IMF and CARTAC' conducted a thorough review of the tax system in early 2003 and
identified a number of measures to broaden the tax base in Dominica. These include, notably, the
introduction of a Value Added Tax (VAT), replacing the residual tax on petroleum imports by a specific
tax and the removal of income tax exemptions from various sources of income including mortgages,
interest on public debt and bank deposits, unit trust income, real estate sales and rental profit, and income
from agricultural enterprises and statutory bodies.

29.   Improving financial management. The worsening deficits and mounting arrears during the last
several years revealed critical weaknesses in financial management as a major contributor to the rising
fiscal imbalances. A recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for
Dominica found that the Government's capacity to gather, analyze and respond to relevant financial
information has been impeded by outmoded and incomplete reporting systems (primarily manual),
inadequate training, poorly defined procedures, and inadequate internal controls. In 1998, the Eastern
Caribbean Economic Management Projects (ECEMP) supported by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) introduced a new information system (SIFGIS) in Dominica to modernize
financial management. However, as the project's original intention was to pilot the implementation in
each of the OECS member states, only a few ministries and agencies were placed online.                   With
inadequate information, revenue forecasting was poor, and expenditure allocations were not being
adjusted duringthe budget year in line with either revenue inflows or available cash and/or financing. As
revenues contracted, this lack of control resulted in a delays in adjusting expenditures and a build-up of
arrears (see para. 7).

B. Stimulating growthandeconomicdiversification

30.   Inadditionto regainingfiscal sustainability, Dominica needsto reestablish the basis for sustained
growth and economic diversification. Dominica's economy has suffered in recent years as a result of
many factors. Its dependence on banana production has led to sharply lower export receipts due to
declining preferential access to UK markets. Increasing competition in global and regional markets has
hurt demand for other exports and tourism. The resulting decline in exports of goods and services
contributed to slower economic growth. Improved competitiveness and greater economic diversification
will be neededto address this weak performance, which in turn requires a stronger financial sector and a
better climate for private investment. Government efforts will need to focus on addressing financial
sector weaknesses includingleveling the playing field for borrowers, lowering the cost of doing business,
reducingdistortions, improving the delivery of growth-enhancingpublic services.

'CaribbeanRegionalTechnical  Assistance Center.
                                                   8

31.    Strengthening and safeguarding the financial sector. The domestic financial sector inDominica
consists of four commercial banks and the state-owned Agncultural Industrial and Development Bank
(AID Bank) and a fairly large credit union subsector' with 18 institutions accounting for over 15 percent
of financial sector deposits. The system i s relatively financially deep for a developing country with M2-
to-GDP ratio of 7.4 and about EC$5,800 in bank aeposits per capita. Three of the commercial banks are
branches of international banks and the fourth is the state-controlled National Commercial Bank (NCB)
which holds about 40 percent of banking system deposits. Although the commercial banking system has
excess liquidity with a loan deposit ratio of 74 percent, credit to the private sector i s undesirably low at 63
percent of GDP and has actually decreasedin nominal terms since 2000, while credit to the public sector
has increased through 2002.

32.    Banking supervision is handled by the ECCB under the OECS Unified Domestic Banking Act, but
the power to grant licenses and enforce closures is reserved for the Ministry of Finance. InDominica, as
in most OECS countries, this poses a serious conflict of interest for the Government, which is the
majority shareholder in NCB. A number of the banking regulations fall well short of international
standards in important areas includingprovisioning requirements, maximum credit exposure to one credit
risk, insider lending limitations, and maximum foreign exchange risk limitations.                  Indeed, the
government, as a borrower, is exempt from limits on maximum credit exposure to one credit risk. The
Banking Act also has severe restrictions on disclosure of individual bank soundness indicators and
excludes government borrowers from prudential exposure limits. Minimumdeposit rates of 3 percent set
by ECCB and high spreads drive up lendingcosts in Dominica which range between 10 and 16 percent.
Moreover, competition among the commercial banks recently declined with the merger of two foreign
banks.

33.    Given the recent economic contraction, non-performing loans have risen and there are concerns
about the impact on NCB and the credit unions. By early 2003, NCB had a total exposure to the public
sector equal to 120 percent of its total capital and reserves, and its non-performing loan ratio had risen to
23 percent of total loans and advances, more than double ECCB's norm of 10 percent. In addition, the
Government was, and still is, in arrears to the bank on debenture interest payments. Measures are being
taken to clear the arrears and reduce the exposure through the transfer of various assets. There was a
danger, however, that a "recapitalized bank" would only open the door for financing future government
deficits, and therefore should be addressedby reducing Government participation inthe bank.

34.    Both AID Bank and the credit unions effectively compete with the commercial banks (including
taking demand deposits) but are not subject to the same regulations and are tax exempt. The three largest
institutions have a combined asset base larger than any commercial bank other than NCB while the largest
Roseau Cooperative Credit Union, has 28,000 members. The credit unions are not regulated by the
central bank, but by a reasonably prudent Act and supervised by the Cooperative Division of the Ministry
of Community Development, while the AID Bank has no effective supervisor. AID Bank however,
voluntarily follows, ECCB guidelines for loan classification and provisioning requirements. Given the
weaknesses in the financial sector and likelihood of a prolonged economic recovery, Dominica will need
to ensure that both the credit union and development banking sectors are well supervised and regulated.

35.    Finally, the Dominica Social Security fund plays a central role in the financial sector, particularly
in relation to Government's indirect access to reserves. As mentioned above, the Government has
accumulated substantial arrears to DSS, the majority of which it i s working to clear through a transfer of
land holdings and other assets. While DSS currently has adequate reserves and medium term financial
stability partly on account of being a young system, there are some concerns that as the system matures,
further accumulation of arrears2would put this soundness at risk. Inaddition, around 75 percent of DSS
assets remain concentrated in central government or public enterprises. There i s a need to ensure that the
investment portfolio is sufficiently diversified, including into regional and international assets.


' Dominicahas  the highestcredit unionmembership in the world.
  Or any delays in adjusting benefits parametersinresponseto an aging population.
                                                      9

36.    OfSshore sector and anti-money laundering efforts.            Dominica has been malung steady
improvements in the management of its offshore sector since mid-2000 when it was listed by the
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) as a non-cooperative jurisdiction. The legislative framework is
largely complete and the Money Laundering Supervisory Authority and Financial Intelligence Units are
fully staffed. As a result of these efforts, the country was de-listed in October 2002. Inthe meantime,
however, the offshore sector declined substantially. Revenueshave fallen significantly, all but one of the
offshore banks have ceased operations and the number of international business companies has fallen by
over 80 percent.

37.    Reducing the cost of doing business, Inorder to increase investment and spur diversification,
Dominica will need to improve its investment climate, in particular by lowering costs of doing business,
and improving the delivery of economic services to the private sector.

38.    Maritime transport costs. The Dominica Port Authority (DPA), which i s otherwise well-run, has
had the highest cargo handling charges in the OECS owing to an outdated labor contract with the cargo
handlers' union. Prior to late 2001, stevedoring services at the Dominica Port Authority were provided
by a private firm that acted as a clearing house for the Dominica Port Workers Association under a
contract that did not allow for the control of cargo handlingcharges. The firmcontinuedto use an archaic
work rule dating back to the time when ships were primarily wooden. Although the contract expired in
1995, the firm made no effort to renegotiate wage rates given its ability to pass on spiraling costs to
consumers. When the Port Authority resumed management of stevedoring services in late 2001 (in part
because of this untenable situation), it accepted the contract without prejudice for a 6-month transition
period. Subsequently, the DPA attempted to renegotiate with the union, and offered to compensate any
retrenched workers. As an interim measure, the port management allowed a major manufacturer on the
island to take delivery of its containers at its own facility constructed for this purpose, in order to avoid
the highcharges associatedwith the work arrangements. These charges added to the high transport costs
associated with Dominica's remote location, which has essentially one-way freight traffic and faces
limited shipping services within the OECS.

39.    Petroleum prices. The pricing of petroleum products has been a source of distortion in the
economy owing to an ad hoc pricing mechanism. Because of the nature of the domestic market - small
volumes, few importers and distributors, and an inherent risk of collusion - retail prices are controlled by
the authorities under the Supplies Control Act. However, prices were adjusted on an ad hoc basis with
little pass-through of international price fluctuations. The price structure was built up from an import
price based on postings from Caribbean producers as opposed to regional spot market prices such as the
U S Gold Coast prices which are used throughout the Americas, and reflects a CARICOM' common
external tariff of 20 percent on imports of petroleumproducts. Margins were fixed at different levels for
individual importers, distributors and retailers which did not provide incentives for efficiency, and left
the consumption tax as a fluctuating residual.

40.     As a result, the importation and distribution of petroleum in Dominica is fraught with
inefficiencies. Each importer owns and operates separate storage facilities and trucking fleets, and the
product is procured in very small quantities. Pooling of storage facilities and transportation at the
national level would be more efficient, as would regional procurement of petroleum supplies. Without
reference to international benchmarks, the price structure cannot provide sufficient incentive to operators
to realize these efficiencies. Inaddition, Dominica along with its OECS neighbors should argue within
CARICOM for a removal of the tariff on petroleum products so that they can gain the benefit of
international competitive biddingand the resultingmarket prices.

41.    Electricity supply. As part of the SBA, the Government removed a consumptiontax exemption on
petroleum imports for electricity generation in July 2003. Electricity supply, which i s provided by a
private utility - Dominica Electricity Services (DOMLEC) - was already costly at around US$0.23/kWh

'CaribbeanCommunity.
                                                    10

compared with a Latin American average of US$0.08/kWh1 and an OECS average of US$0.18/kWh.2 In
this already high cost environment, the utility sought to pass the entire burden of the increasedfuel costs
to consumers. This has generated substantial negative public reaction to the earlier privatization and
highlightedthe authorities' limited capacity to effectively regulate the sector.

C. Protectingsocial gains

42.     Important progress has been made toward reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in
Dominica and past investments in human and social development have yielded relatively good social
outcomes (see Table 1). However, major challenges remain, notably vis-84s the reduction of the
poverty headcount, expansion of secondary education and stemming the spread of HIV/AIDS.                      The
country has an extensive network of community centers, clinics, and schools, and an active local
government system comprising 42 village councils. But the current fiscal crisis and medium-term
macroeconomic outlook imply that this system has become unaffordable.                     Demographic changes,
migration from rural to urban areas, improvements in transportation and communications, and new
technologies offer some scope for reducing costs while simultaneously improvingquality, mainly through
the consolidation of schools and clinics and better deployment of human resources. In addition, there i s
scope for increased cost recovery in a number of services. The medium-termreformprogram will need to
improve cost effectiveness of social service delivery and address the emerging challenges.

                 TABLE 1. DOMINICA:SOCIAL INDICATORS (most recent year available)
                                                               Dominica      LCR      Upper middle income
       Infant mortality (per 1000)                                  18        27                 19
       Access to an improved water source (5% pop)                 99         86                 90
       Net primary enrollment                                      99          85                87
       Adult Literacy                                              91          89                93
       Life expectancy at birth(years)                             77         70                 71
       Public spending on education (% of GDP)                     6.5        2.8                2.9
                          on health (% of GDP)                     4.5        3.3                4.4
                          on social protection (% of GDP)          5.6"       4.7               n.a.
        * Includes social security

43.     Health. Dominica has achieved impressive health indicators, including for the poor who do not
have significantly differenthealth outcomes from the general population. The country's current challenge
i s to address new needs, such as Dominica's changing disease profile, and to safeguard health outcomes
in the face of budgetary constraints. Starting in the 1980s, the Government invested heavily in a strong
primary health care model with 45 clinics within five kilometers of every village and seven health centers
with more specialized staff. All primary services are free, and health clinic staff make home visits and
conduct outreach activities3. This model has been a significant factor in producing Dominica's good
health outcomes, but i s now proving too expensive to maintain operating effectively. Wages and salaries
account for 78 percent of recurrent expenditures, leaving pharmaceuticals, and building and equipment
maintenance severely under-funded in recent years. A number of clinics have fallen into disrepair and
others are only partially functional, immunization rates slipped recently due to a shortage of vaccines, and
arrears and late payments to pharmaceutical suppliers have created drug shortages.

44.     Given that the budgetary pressures are likely to continue in the medium term, Dominica needs to
reexamine the health care model to maximize the impact of its spending on health, while adapting to
changes in population distribution, lifestyles, and health technology. For example, the Government has
traditionally relied on external assistance for the construction and maintenance of health facilities, but

' 1999average.
  2002 average not including St. Kitts.
  Two district hospitals complement the national hospital in Roseau for secondary care services. There are no
tertiary care services in Dominica, but the Government refers patients overseas and provides some assistance.
                                                      11

these must be increasingly accommodated within its own resources. In addition, early initiation of sexual
activity among teenagers and the patterns of temporary migration make it imperative that the Government
scale up its HIV/AIDSprograms. There is considerable scope for improving efficiency while improving
quality and protecting access for the poor. These measures include consolidation of clinics and better
prioritization of public investments to ensure that critical health facilities are maintained, moving toward
more shared services within the Eastern Caribbean sub-region, and increasing cost recovery. However,
these changes will require a carefully developed plan and institutional reforms that will take time to
design and implement.

45.     Education.     Over the past decade, the Government has given high priority to education with
significant results. Dominica has achieved near universal primary enrollment and completion (two key
MDGs), and a remarkable expansion in primary-to-secondary transition rate from 34 percent in 1996 to
84 percent in 2002. Enrollment rates in primary are slightly higher for males than females, while the
reverse i s accentuated in secondary schooling. As such, improving secondary education outcomes
remains a major challenge. At the secondary level, the highest repetition rates in the Caribbean,
inadequate teacher training and inefficient teacher deployment, and a severe shortage of supplies have
combined to yield very low completion rates, around 56 percent. Also the recent gains in enrolment have
come at an increased cost. Spending on administration increased from 5.3 percent of the education
budget in FY98/99 to an estimated 11.6 percent in FY02/03, but resulted in some improvements in the
quality of governance.         Moreover, in recent years, the Government has safeguarded personnel
emoluments, by severely cutting capital investments and crowding out maintenance, materials and
supplies. As such, Dominica has the second highest recurrent expenditure on education as a share of
GDPwithin the OECS, after Grenada.

46.     Dominica's major challenge i s to maintain the expansion in secondary schooling and improve
overall quality, while containing costs. There is scope for efficiency gains at the primary level.            In
particular, Dominica has a number of very small primary schools with less than 50 students, that cost
twice as much to run as larger schools, and have generally lower quality outcomes. Moreover, declining
birth rates, increasing urbanization and migration have reduced the need for some of these schools.
Consolidating schools and raising very low pupil-teacher ratios - 20 and falling in primary schools, and
18 in secondary schools - to more efficient levels, would also help to improve educational outcomes. At
the secondary level, needed curriculum reform would lead to a consolidation of programs and more
efficient   teacher deployment.        Moreover, Dominica should continue to explore ways to reduce
administrative costs through sub-regional cooperation. These efficiency gains would help finance the
neededexpansion in secondary education and improvements in overall quality.

47.     Social Protection.     Like most of the Eastern Caribbean countries, Dominica has most of the
buildingblocks for an effective social protection system. However, these consist of a plethora of public
safety net programs which are uncoordinated and poorly targeted'.                 These programs are, also
complemented by large flows of remittances that go to the poor as well as the non-poor and act as an
informal safety net to some degree. Given that unemployment is the leading cause of poverty, and that a
prolonged period of adjustment i s likely, rationalization and improved targeting of these programs i s
critical if the poor are to be protected duringthis difficult time. In particular, any move to increased cost
recovery as a source of financing for social services will have to be based on improved targeting.           The
Bank's recently completed Dominica Social Protection Review identifies specific areas for improvement,
including: (i)  rationalizing existing programs to eliminate duplication of efforts; (ii)  improving targeting
of programs, including to the Carib community; and (iii)           strengthening capacity for implementation,
monitoring and evaluation in ministries and agencies.


'Includingpublic   assistance for poor families, aschoolfeeding programand an educationtrust fund for low-income
students, a labor intensive roadmaintenanceprogramwhich offers short-termemployment for unemployedworkers,
skills trainingand adult education programs, and donor-fundedlabor-intensivecommunity-based infrastructure
developmentactivities, includingthe Basic Needs Trust Fundfinanced by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
and a Social InvestmentFundsupportedby the EU.
                                                      12

                               PART111. THEGOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM

48.    Inthe June 2003 budget address, the Government reiteratedits commitment to the "Programme for
Economic Stabilization and Recovery"' launched in 2001, and to "laying a platform for economic growth
through stabilisation of the public finances, prudent fiscal and expenditure management and appropriate
structural reforms embracing the entire public sector, and conducive to the stimulation of economic
activity."   The authorities have subsequently prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(shared with the Board on December 11, 2003) which outline the key element and targets for the
stabilization and recovery program, as well as the approach for addressing social and poverty impact of
the current economic difficulties and needed reforms. Simultaneously, the authorities are working with
the Bank and other development partners to design and implement a medium term program of structural
reforms to address the remaining structural challenges outlined in the previous section. The Government
intends to include this programin a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper being prepared during 2004.

A. The macroeconomic stabilization program

49.    The authorities have recently negotiated a new macroeconomic stabilization program supported by
a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility arrangement which was approved by the IMF Board on
December 19, 2003. The cornerstones of this program are a comprehensive debt restructuring exercise
aimed at reducing the public sector debt, and a program of fiscal adjustment aimed at achieving the
requiredfiscal balancesnecessaryto maintainthe reduced level of debt. Under the PRGF, the authorities
have targeted a primary balance (includinggrants) of 3 percent of GDP to be achieved by Fy06/07. This
constitutes a fiscal effort of around 5 percent of GDP over the next three years' This i s consistent with the
authorities objectives of a significant reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio in net present value terms and
key macroeconomic parameters.

50.    Following the package of politically challenging fiscal measures adopted by the Government inthe
context of its FY03/04 Budget, including a public sector wage cut of 5 percent and measures to broaden
the tax based amounting to 1.5 percent of GDP, the additional adjustment through January - June 2004
will be around 0.5 percent of GDP to be achieved through further reductions in discretionary tax
exemptions.     The authorities intend to target a primary surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP for FY04/05, 2
percent in FY05/06 and 3 percent in FY06/07. This adjustment path requires the adoption of fiscal
measure equivalent to 5 percent of GDP (to switch from a projected primary deficit of about 2 percent of
GDP (excluding one time exceptional grants of 2.5 percent of GDP) in Fy03/04 to a surplus of 3 percent
inFY06/07.

51.    Duringthe next two fiscal years, the main measurewill be a reduction inthe wage billby 5 percent
each year, mainly through a reduction in government employment as part of a Comprehensive public
sector reform that the Government has initiated (see paras. 65-69). The primary fiscal target would be
adjusted to accommodate the one-off costs of severance payments for employment retrenchment. The
remainingadjustment i s expected to come from a combination of expenditure measuresincluding pension
reform, and tax measures aimed at broadening the tax base and improving collections. With a view to
improving efficiency and minimizing distortions, the authorities intend to introduce a VAT by mid-2005,
mainly in lieu of consumption, sales and other taxes. While it i s not envisaged, at this stage, that
additional tax increases would be needed to achieve the fiscal targets over the medium term, the VAT
would be usedto safeguardthe fiscal objectives of the program.

52.    Under this program, a large financing gap of around US$30 million remains for FY03/04. Of this
amount, approximately US$27 million is expected to be covered through a combination of loans, grants




 This program built on an earlier Economic Stabilization Program prepared by the Ministry of Finance, ECCB and
the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) inMarch 2002, which aimed to "increase growth, reduce unemployment
and generate savings on the central government current account".
                                                      13

rollovers, and reschedulings' (includingthe proposed ERSO), while the remaining gap of US$3 million is
expected to come as savings from the debt reduction.

                    TABLE2.DOMINICA EXTERNAL              BUDGETARY        SUPPORT, FY03/04
                                                               Disbursedas of
                                                     US$ M       Nov 20,2003        % GDP
                   Financing Gap                        30.0                         11.8
                   EU(grants)                            3.3          2.2             1.3
                   Barbados (rollover)                   4.7          4.7             1.8
                   Trinidad & Tobago (rollover)          4.0          4.0             1.6
                   Bahamas                               1.5          1.5            0.6
                   CDB                                   3.0          1.o
                                                                      1.o             1.2
                   ECCB                                  1.o                         0.4
                   IMF-SBA                               1.3          0.9            0.5
                   IMF-PRGF                              4.3                          1.7
                   IDA                                   3.O           _--_           1.2
                   Private rescheduling                  0.7          0.7            0.3
                   Commitments la                       26.6          16.0           10.6

                   Remaining gap                         3.4                         1.2
                  la Discrepancydue to rounding.

53.    Dominica's medium-term outlook i s modest at best, and fraught with significant risks.                 The
country's medium term economic prospects hinge decisively on the resumption of private investment,
which in turn depends on the external environment, investor confidence and on critical real improvements
in the investment climate.       It is expected that the debt restructuring exercise will contribute to a
restoration of confidence by establishing the basis for fiscal stability. The government's performance on
the stabilization program and structural reforms through FY04/05 will be pivotal. Even under projections
of a full recovery in output with real growth rates between 1 and 2 percent per year over the next three
years based on a projectedrecovery in the global economy, strong and sustained fiscal adjustment will be
needed to stabilize public debt dynamics. Moreover, Dominica's continued vulnerability to external
shocks, both economic and from natural disasters, poses significant risks for the medium-term outlook.

B. Improvingfiscal andfinancial management

54.    Debt management. In preparation for the debt restructuringexercise, the authorities prepared and
adopted a comprehensive debt strategy, and have contracted qualified legal and financial advisers to assist
them in this process with support from the Canadian, US and UK governments. Implementation of the
debt strategy will be key to regaining fiscal sustainability.          Discussions started with creditors* on
December 17,2003 when the strategy was formally announced in Barbados. The Paris Club has given its
approval for Dominica to negotiate bilaterally with the two official bilateral creditor members, France and
the United Kingdom. The authorities are committed to pursue a debt restructuring process that is
collaborative and to continue, to the extent possible, to remain current on their debt obligations duringthis
process. The authorities expect to complete the debt restructuring in the first quarter of 2004. While an
ambitious undertaking, rapid implementation of the debt restructuring is critical to securing appropriate
financing for the program.

55.    Simultaneously, the authorities are addressing both the institutional and regulatory framework for
public borrowing. The management of external and domestic debt has been consolidated in a newly-
established Cash and Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance, although back office functions
continues to be divided between the Accountant General's Office for domestic debt and the Ministry of

'Includesreschedulingof  debt service paymentsto Societe General already completed.
  The authoritieshave contractedlegal and financial advisers and have begundiscussionswith the various creditors.
The Bank and Fund have been assignedpreferredcreditor status and, as such obligations to the two institutions are
exempt from any restructuring efforts.
                                                     14

Finance and Planning for external debt, pending the installation of new software (CS-DRMS 2000+) to
unify this process.     The Bank is assisting the authorities with a review of existing debt legislation,
following which the Government intend to submit revised legislation for government borrowing to
Parliament by December 2004.

56.    Financialmanagement. A key immediate challenge in the effort to regain fiscal sustainability is
to tighten controls over spending and to halt and reverse the accumulation of domestic arrears. Weak
commitment controls, inadequate revenue forecasting and poor cash management have contributed to a
growing stock of arrears. Inrecent months, the fiscal crunchhas also resulted in late payments on salaries
and allowances. As such, the authorities have been working with a consortium of donors, including the
World Bank, CARTAC, CDB, CIDA, the Department for International Development (DFID) and the
IMF, to put in place an effective system of cash management and expenditure control, as a matter of
priority, and to outline a medium-termprogram to further improve financial management.

57.    The Bank recently completed a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for
Dominica and an associated Financial Management Action Plan. Phase Iof the Action Plan comprises
those measures needed immediately to strengthen cash management and expenditure control so that the
authorities could arrest and reverse the accumulation of arrears, while Phase 11includes measures to
reduce further fiduciary risk by implementing stronger internal controls and establishing a robust
accountability framework.

58.    The authorities are completing Phase Iof the Financial Management Action Plan and have made
significant progress in strengthening commitment controls and cash management. The Government has
introduced a cash and commitment management system that adjusts line ministries expenditure
allocations and enforces commitment limits on a monthly basis in line with resource availability. The
stock of arrears has been reduced by around EC$4.7 million since the beginning of FY03/04. Technical
assistance has been procured to improve the quality of revenue projections at the Customs and Inland
Revenue Departments. Inaddition, an internal auditor post, that had been vacant for some time, has been
filled and this person is working with line ministries to ensure better control of expenditures and payment
commitments. In an effort to stem the use of bank accounts to circumvent expenditure and funds
controls, the MOWhas also completed a census of all existing Government bank accounts and has issued
explicit terms and conditions for the operation of the remaining accounts. Those accounts not meeting
these criteria have beenclosed.

59.    Finally, in an effort to improve transparency and accountability for public expenditure, the MoFP
has been issuing monthly budget execution statements to the Independent Monitoring Group made of up
stakeholders from the private sector and civil society as part of its periodic reporting on the progress of
the stabilization program.

60.    Phase I1of the FinancialManagement Action Plan consists of the following measures:

             Completemodemization offinancial management information systems. The Government has
             procured additional technical assistance from CIDA and CDB to complete the roll out of
             SIGFIS to all ministries, departments and agencies by June 2004. The new system is to be
             linked with the cash management and debt recording systems. The process is already well
             underway and proceeding on track - key revenue agencies have already been brought on
             stream.    Inaddition, the Government has strengthenedthe management and staffing of its
             computer center to ensure that the new systems are maintained.

             Improvefinancial reporting. With the new information system in place, the Government will
             ensure that public accounts and financial statements follow international standards, including
             specifically those related to the government landpurchasesand sales.

             Update regulatory framework. Following the further refinement of the new procedures, the
             Government intends to complete the process to replace the current legislation governing
                                                    15

             financial management with a new Finance (Administration) Act that reflects the new
             processes as well as the use of computerized information systems. The new Act and
             supporting regulations are planned to be submitted to parliament by June 2004, and a Cash
             Management Manual i s to be completed in time for the execution of the FY04/05 budget. In
             addition, under the PRGF the authorities intend to adopt a fiscal responsibility law by mid
             2005 with the objective of instituting broad guidelines for the conduct of fiscal policy over
             the business cycle as well as rules to prevent another rapid accumulation of debt inthe future.

61.    Public expendituremanagement. Followingthe results of the public expenditure review recently
completed by the Bank, the authorities in Dominica recognize that to sustainably reduce public spending
they would need to undertake fundamental reforms to improve efficiency and cost effectiveness across the
public sector, and that these reforms would only yield savings in the medium term. The authorities have
adopted a Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy (see paras. 65-69) aimed to reduce the cost of
government in an orderly and effective way in order to achieve fiscal and broader economic development
of Dominica. In the interim, the Government took the following short term measures to contain and
better managepublic expenditure.

         (a) Wages and salaries. In the context of the SBA, in 2003 the Government took crucial short
             term measuresto contain the wage bill, including a 5 percent public sector wage cut, a freeze
             on hiring, and the reduction of overtime pay and various allowances. On the employment
             side, the authorities have tightened control over the contracting and payment of non-
             established workers, through the financial management measures mentioned above, and have
              started to reduce the use of temporary staff inline with available budgetary resources.

         (b) Priority non-wage recurrent expenditures. In order to ensure the delivery of critical social
              services during the stabilization and adjustment period, Dominica's FY03/04 budget
             maintained non-wage recurrent expenditures for the Ministries of Health, Education and
             Community Development.

62.    Despite these measures, the public sector wage bill remains one of the highest in the region (16
percent of GDP). As part of the program supported by the PRGF, the authorities intend to reduce the
wage bill by 5 percent in each of the next two fiscal years, through the reductions in the number of
employees. As indicated in paragraph 69 this will be pursued in the context of a public sector reform
programaimed at restructuringthe current modes of public service delivery.

63.    Publicinvestment. The authorities recognize that inthe current macroeconomic environment, it is
critical that Dominica raise the productivity of its public investments to support a resumption of growth.
The authorities also recognize that weak management of the public sector investment program has in the
past contributed to both poor choice of projects and financing, and low execution rates. To this end, with
technical assistance from the Government of Barbados, the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and the World Bank, the Government has formulated a new three-year PSIP for FY03/04 -
FY05/06 which maximizes the use of available grant and concessional resources financing'.             The PSIP
now reflects realistic estimates of project implementation and a prioritization of projects in line with the
Government objectives of supporting private sector investment and growth. In addition, a number of
projects whose impact on the economy was questionable were halted and measures taken to terminate
government' s contractual obligations.       To improve implementation of the PSIP, new monitoring
procedureswere established to which line ministries have been adhering. As a result, the government was
able to publish the first quarterly PSIP execution report for July - September 2003 and the PSP
implementation rate for the first quarter of the fiscal year has increased to 91 percent as compared to 10
percent in the previous year, although the latter was exceptionally low due to over-projections and under-
reportingas well as to actual implementation bottlenecks.


' Grants finance 68 percent of the FY03/04public investment program and external loans on favorable terms
finance 27 percent.
                                                    16

64.   The Government has also adopted new administrative procedures for PSIP preparation,
management and execution, including explicit and appropriate criteria for project selection and approval
for implementation. To help insulate the public investment programfrom arbitrary political influences, a
Projects Supervisory Committee, comprising public officials from various key ministries, the Budget
Director and the Debt Manager, has been appointed and mandatedto oversee project selection, financing,
approval and implementation.

65.   Public sector reform. Following a consultative workshop in January 2003, the authorities have
adopted and are in the early stages of implementing a Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy
aimed at achieving greater cost efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of public services.              The
strategy has four components (i)       modernizing public administration; (ii) strengthening public expenditure
management and controls; (iii)enhancing growth-supporting public services; and (iv) rationalizing the
delivery of social services and improving their targeting.           The Strategy builds on the broad public
consultations undertaken for earlier work on the Integrated Development Plan' and the Carib People's
Development Plan, a recent Poverty Assessment, and Growth Conference as well as on other studies and
reviews on public sector management issues in Dominica undertaken over the last few years. The
Strategy also incorporates and will help to harmonize earlier reformefforts that were ongoing in different
parts of the public sector. Strategy implementation is being overseen by a Public Sector Reform Task
Force chaired by the Minister of Health and Social Protection and consisting of key public officials and
representatives from the Public Service Union, the Dominica Teachers' Union, the Dominica Association
for Industry and Commerce, and the National Association of Non-Governmental Organizations.

66.   Under the first component: "modernizing public sector administration", the authorities are taking
measures to strengthen policy formulation, strategic planning, and Cabinet decision-making processes,
and to introduce performance management arrangements for senior public officials.                  Supported by
DFID's Fiscal and Economic Recovery Project (FERP), the authorities have held a series of retreats and
workshops for senior public officials aimed at clarifying roles and responsibilities. Ongoing work on
improving line ministry corporate plans, implementing a manpower planning model and reforming the
budgeting process for FY04/05 is focused on the implementation of the target reductions in public
employment. Under this component the Government i s also completing a process that was begun earlier
in2002 to update the Public Service Acts and Regulations which govern public service employment. The
EUhas provided an longterm adviser to assist with this component.

67.    The second component of the strategy: "strengthening expenditure management" includes
implementation of the Financial Management Action Plan discussed above in paras. 57-60, reform of the
budget process being supported by DFID's FERP, and improvements in the management of the Public
Sector Investment Program described inparas. 63-64.

68.    Under the thirdcomponent "enhancing the enabling environment", the authorities appointed a Task
Force in July 2003 to address this issue. The Government currently is studying the recommendations of
the Task Force report, including the introduction of Customer Service Improvement Plans in key public
agencies such as customs and the development of a case management system to clear the backlog and
expedite hearings in the court system. Subsequently, the Government has established a Consultative
Working Group on Private Sector Development and, with assistancefrom the EU, has appointed a Private
Sector Advisor in the Reform Management Unit. In addition, the private sector i s in the process of
establishing an umbrella group to liaise with the Government on relevant issues.

69.    The final component, "rationalizing the delivery of social services and improving their targeting
has been informed by the results of the Poverty Assessment recently completed by the Government and

'Inearly  2002, the authorities initiatedthe preparationof a medium-term IntegratedDevelopmentPlan, with
support from the EU. After a series of public consultations, the consultingteam draftedareport which focuses
primarily on the establishmentof a participatoryplanningprocess, rather than a development strategy, per se. The
authorities have incorporatedthis work and the feedback from the consultationsinto the formulationof the PSIP,
and mediumterm Public SectorReformStrategy, and planto use it in the formulation of the PRSP.
                                                        17

CDB, the Carib People's Development Plan, the Social Protection Review completed by the Bank in July
2003 and a recently completed Public Expenditure Review. The Social Protection Review contains
recommendations for streamlining and improving the targeting of social protection programs and for
expanding coverage of social security. The Ministry of Education i s working on a proposal to consolidate
rural schools which would simultaneously improve the deployment of teachers, raise the quality of
instruction and achieve some cost efficiency. Finally, the Ministry of Health will review a proposal to
expand cost recovery mechanisms in the health service, to consolidate a number of health clinics and
district hospitals, and to outsource certain non-essentialfunctions.

C. Promoting growth and diversification

70.   The Government is cognizant of the need to enhance the climate for private investment both by
improving its delivery of growth-related public services as well as strengthening the dialogue with the
private sector. These form a key component of its MediumTerm Public Sector Reform Strategy outlined
above, the details of which are in the process of being formulated and prioritized. In the short term,
however, the Government has taken measuresto strengthen and safeguard the financial sector and address
inefficient pricing policies in the critical areas of port operations, petroleum products and electricity
supply. The authorities have also to undertake reviews of the administration of fiscal incentives and role
of public enterprises in order to ensurethat there is a level playing field for private investment.

71.    Financial sector. Given the current pressureson the financial sector stemming from the economic
contraction, the Dominican authorities are taking measures to strengthen and safeguard key institutions.
At the same time, the Fund and the Bank are currently undertaking a Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) for the OECS. The Bank plans to support implementation of the FSAP
recommendations through a OECS-wide financial sector operation (see CAS, page 24).

72.    National Commercial Bank. The authorities have taken measures to strengthen the operations of
the National Commercial Bank. Exposure to the public sector, including guarantees and debentures, has
fallen from 120 percent of the bank's Tier 1 capital and reserves in 2002 to just under 95 percent. In
particular, the Government's overdraft balance has fallen to EC$27 million in November 2003 from
EC$37 million just over a year ago. Under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between
NCB and ECCB, the commercial bank has prepared and ECCB has approved an Action Plan to improve
the financial health of the bank, including time bound benchmarks for reducing the share of non-
performing loans in its portfolio. The Government has repealed the NCB Act and placed the bank under
the Companies' Act, in order to level the playing field vis-&vis other private commercial banks in
Dominica in terms of tax treatment. In addition, the Government reduced its share in NCB bringing its
ownership to a minority stake, and has applied a significant share of the proceeds to reducing its
outstanding arrears to NCB and DSS. NCB has, in turn, restructured its Board to reflect these changes.
The authorities plan to divest additional shares in NCB and are in the process of retaining a transaction
advisor to recommend options in this regard and taking into account the recommendations of the ongoing
FSAP.

73.    Credit union subsector. The Government has amended the Cooperatives Act to place credit unions
under MOWsupervision, leaving the Commissioner of Cooperatives with authority for cooperative-
specific aspects of their operations. In order to operationalize this change, a committee has been formed
(with appropriate stakeholder participation) to review and propose changes to the cooperative regulations
by end March 2004. In addition, MoFP and the Commissioner of Cooperatives carried out a pilot joint
inspection of the largest credit union -- Roseau Cooperative Credit Union - with assistance from ECCB,
in October 2003. The authorities intend to undertake joint inspection of other credit unions by end 2004
and direct them to take timely measuresto strengthentheir operations.

74.   Agricultural Industrial Development Bank. In a similar vein, the Government intends to take
measures to strengthen the state-owned Agricultural Industrial Development (AID) Bank by reducing its


                                                    18

role in the management of the bank. To this end, the Government i s in the process of retaining a
consultant to conduct an audit of its portfolio and evaluate strategic options.

75.    Dominica Social Security. Since July 2003, the Government has resumedits monthly contributions
to DSS which had been suspended for several years. DSS plans to prepare and adopt a medium- and
long-term investment strategy for managing its assets which includes regional and international
diversification, in line with the recommendations of the Social Protection Review. This in turn should
help safeguard against excessive Government intervention in the future. The Bank will monitor progress
on the development of such a strategy targeted for completion inMarch 2004.

76.    Port operations. After overturning two injunctions by the union, the Government has successfully
put in place new work arrangements at the Dominica Port Authority that have reduced stevedoring and
longshoring charges by 25 percent and charges for handling break-bulkcargo by 30 percent. Inaddition,
the Port Authority has also negotiated reductions in, and eliminations of, surchargesby various shipping
lines which had been imposed due to the antiquated work arrangements. For example, the Caribbean Ship
Owners' Association has removed a surcharge of EC$190 per 20-foot container. The authorities are
currently awaiting the outcome of judicial tribunal on the role of the union in management of the work
roster before completing negotiations on a new employment scheme and wage contract.

77.    Petroleum pricing and taxation. Following consultations with market operators and with the
support of technical assistance from the World Bank, the Government has established and is
implementing a new transparent mechanism for pricing petroleumproducts inline with internationalprice
fluctuations. The mechanism involves regular adjustment of the petroleumprices according to a specified
formula which i s based on an international benchmark price, uniform margins for the various industry
operators - importers, distributors and retailers - and a specific consumption tax intended to stabilize
government revenues. Retail prices adjustments are being made on an 8-week cycle. As part of the
transition to the new system, a first adjustment was made on November 5,2003 and a second adjustment
on December 1, 2003. The Government will conduct an early review of the system in January 2004 to
resolve a number of implementation issues, including the import price benchmark calculations and
allowances for haulage and transit losses, as well as to re-examine the periodicity of price adjustments.
Following this review, the authorities will codify the new system into regulations under the Supplies
Control Act by end February 2004. Dominica is also supporting efforts within CARICOM to review the
pricing of petroleum products within the Community by PETROTRIN, the monopoly state-owned
supplier in Trinidad, and will host a workshop to showcase their new system to other OECS member
countries early next year.

78.    Electricity sector.     In response to the recent disagreement between the Government and the
monopoly electricity provider - DOMLEC - the authorities have requested technical assistance from the
Bank to review the regulatory environment and tariff setting mechanisms for the power sector in
Dominica. On the basis of this ongoing review, the Government intends to update the tariff formula in
the Electricity Supply Act by mid January, when an interim agreement with the utility i s scheduled to
expire, Following that exercise, the authorities plan to revise the regulatory framework for electricity
supply to provide stronger incentives for efficiency and consumer protection and submit a revised
Electricity Supply Act to Parliament by June 2004.

79.    Levelingthe playing field. The even-handed treatment of the private sector by government either
through withdrawal from commercial activities or the administration of fiscal incentives i s crucial to
encourage private investment.

80.    Discretionary' fiscal incentives.        The authorities recognize that discretionary tax and duty
concessions which may be inconsistently and inequitably applied can in fact impede the efficient
allocation of resources in the private sector. Under the PRGF, the Government has agreed to reduce the
' "Discretionary"incentives refer to those incentives that are not found in legislation, including those authorized by
Cabinet decision only. Statutory incentives are legislated.
                                                        19

granting of such exemptions in order to achieve additional tax collections of 0.5 percent of GDP on an
annualized basis in line with the macroeconomic program. The authorities also intend to conduct by June
2004 a comprehensive review of all statutory and discretionary tax exemptions with a view to accessing
their effectiveness andjustification, and to prevent abuses.

81.    Public enterprises.     The authorities recognize that there is a need to streamline the number of
enterprises in which the Government has an ownership stake, in order to level the playing field for private
investment. To this end, the Ministry of Finance i s completing a review of public enterprises and public
participation inprivate companies, includingthrough government guarantees. On the basis of this review,
the authorities intendto prepare and adopt a new policy for the establishment of, and public investment
in, such enterprisesby endMarch 2004.

D. Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper.

82.    The Government has recently completed an InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper (distributed
to the Board on December 11, 2003) and is currently preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The
strategy will build on a recently completed Country Poverty Assessment prepared by the Government and
CDB.      The Country Poverty Assessment combines information from the Dominica 2001 Living
Conditions Survey, with a Participatory Poverty Assessment conducted in October 2002. The PRSP will
also incorporate earlier work on an Integrated Development Plan, the Carib People's Development Plan,
the three-year PSIP, the Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy, the Bank's recently completed
review of public expenditures and assessment of the social protection system, and analytical work
preparedby other donors.

                                 P A R T IV. THEPROPOSED       OPERATION

A. Objectives and description

83.    Objectives.     The proposed Economic Recovery Support Operation would support the
Government's program and reform agenda described in Part I11and in the Letter of Development Policy
(see Annex 1). The main objective of the proposed operation i s to support Dominica's efforts to regain
fiscal sustainability and to restart growth, while protecting past social gains. In helping to fill the current
financing gap, the operation will provide the Government with the needed space to complete the
formulation of a medium-termreform program, which i s to be embodied in a Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper, and to protect investments in social and human capital.

84.    Description. The proposed ERSO i s a single-tranche structural adjustment credit in the amount of
US$3 million equivalent. The operation will support the authorities' efforts to: (a) improve public
expenditure management, through reforms in financial and debt management and a restructuring of the
public sector investment program; (b) strengthen the financial sector reforms by commercializing the
state-owned banks and improving supervision of the credit union sub-sector; and (c) reduce the cost of
doing business through reforms in the petroleum, electricity and transport sectors. The operation focuses
on the most urgent measures required for fiscal consolidation and a resumption of growth and on areas of
the Bank's comparative advantage. The operation's concessional terms will reduce the government's
borrowing costs and lengthen debt maturities at the margin. The credit is based on structural reform
measures that havebeen implemented by the Government prior to Board presentation.

B. Rationale

85.    Consistency with the Country Assistant Strategy (CAS). The proposed ERSO i s consistent with
the broad objectives of the FY02-06CAS covering the Eastern Caribbean states (discussed by the Board
in June 2001), namely to: (i) vulnerability and income insecurity; and (ii)strengthen human and
                               reduce
institutional capacity across the sub-region. The focus on fiscal sustainability, improved public sector
performance and private investment climate will help Dominica create a sound basis for the increased

                                                   20

private investment and the economic diversification necessary to reduce vulnerability to external shocks,
as well as protect returns from its significant past social investments.

86.    However, the CAS did not envisage any adjustment lending, and the strategy emphasized sub-
regional rather than individual country programs. The need for adjustment lending was not present at the
time of the CAS, as Dominica had not entered the deep recession and fiscal and external balances were
broadly acceptable, and there was general reluctance among Governments in the sub-region to undertake
Fund-supported macroeconomic programs.' Major external shocks since the CAS Board discussion -
including the events of September 11, 2001, and the subsequent global economic slowdown and drastic
fall in tourism - worsened growth performances and fiscal balances throughout the Eastern Caribbean
sub-region. The impact of these external shocks has been particularly severe for Dominica given its
limited natural resources and less diversified economy, and it has so far been the only Eastern Caribbean
country to request an IMF disbursing program. Moreover, the individual difficulties of one country, like
Dominica, could pose a threat to the sub-regional currency board arrangement if the fiscal crisis spills
over into the financial sector.

87.    Despite its emphasis on sub-regional approaches, the CAS does allow for single country operations
which address a specific problem in one country that could be scaled up or replicated in other countries.
Given the fiscal deterioration across the OECS countries, it is not unlikely that in the future other OECS
countries may also opt for an IMF-supported stabilization program and request assistancefrom the World
Bank in the form of adjustment lending. Inthat case, successful adjustment in Dominica may provide an
important demonstration for the other countries in the sub-region, especially in the area of public sector
reform. There are sufficient similarities across the OECS to ensure that this operation will yield
important learning benefits for the Bank and its clients that can be applied to subsequent operations in the
region.

88.    The proposed ERSO fits within the lending and exposure limits of the CAS lending program of
US$95 million (not including GEF2grants) for FY02-06. To date, US$53 million of the CAS envelope
has been committed to sub-regional and regional programs, comprising one Disaster Management, two
HIV/AIDS, three Education, and five post September 11, 2001 Emergency Recovery projects as well as
stand alone Water Sector Reformproject for St. Lucia.

89.     Complementaritywith other Bank activities. The proposed structural reform agenda supported
by this operation complements ongoing efforts to strengthen the investment climate and overall
competitiveness in Dominica (and the OECS) through: (i)         the OECS Telecom Reform Project (US$1.2
million) which has successfully improved the telecom regulatory framework and reduced
telecommunication charges in the region, and (ii)        the Emergency Recovery Project (US$3.3 million)
approved following the events of September 11, 2001, to help improve security arrangements at air and
sea ports necessary to support the tourism sector. The program benchmark on electricity i s being
supported by a PPIAF3grant and complements other Bank support for the energy sector at the regional
level through an ongoing Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) grant. The Bank i s
also preparing the Dominica component of the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.
The preparatory work for this operation which includes the formulation of an HIV/ALDS strategy and
surveillance work is ongoing.

90.    The proposed operation also builds on recently completed work on public expenditure (Dominica
Fiscal Issues), in financial management (Dominica CFAA) and procurement (Dominica CPAR4), and an
institutional capacity review of the OECS at the sub-regional level. In addition, a detailed analysis of
Dominica's social protection system was completed in July 2003. This program of analytical work

  The CAS did provide for the event of weather-driven macroeconomic volatility with a US$10million contingency
fund under the OECS Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management projects.
* Global Environmental Facility
  Private Participation in Infrastructure Advisory Fund
  Country Procurement Assessment Report
                                                       21

provides important knowledge and recommendations on the workings of budget processes and controls,
and identifies weaknesses that need to be addressed to establish fiscal discipline. The results of these
analyses were' used to define the program of reform measures that comprise the proposed ERSO and the
medium-term framework. Additional analytical work currently ongoing includes a sub-regional Financial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) which i s already underway and a study on growth and
competitiveness issues affecting Dominica and the rest of the OECS. The findings emerging from this
research, together with the lessons learned from the first-round reform measures supported by this
operation, will provide the necessary underpinnings for future progress on the medium-term reform
agenda.

91.     Lessons learned from previous operations. Dominica has had only one previous adjustment
operation with the Bank - a Structural Adjustment Credit in 1987 (see Box 1). Between 1987 and 1995,
the Bank supported the OECS through a line of credit to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), which
was later suspended because of weak implementation. Since then, Dominica has benefited from a small
IDFI grant for informatics development (FY04), a GEF project for shipwaste management (FY95), and
five blend investment operations for solid waste management (FY95), basic education (FY96), telecom
reform program (FY98), disaster management (FY98) and a post-September 11 emergency recovery
project (FY02), all of which were part of sub-regional programs.


                         BOX 1. DOMINICA      STRUCTUFUL     ADJUSTMENTCREDIT (FY87)
In June 1987,the Bank approved a US$3 million three-tranche StructuralAdjustment Credit for Dominicaaimed at
improving the macroeconomic, incentive and institutional framework through: (i) trade liberalization; (ii) tax
reform; (iii) public sector wage and employment restraint; (iv) improved PSIP and private investment approval
processesand agriculturalextension services. During the first two years, comprehensivetrade and tax reforms were
achieved (even beyond the conditionalities)and macroeconomic targets were exceeded. Progresswas also made in
the institutionalreforms. In the third year, however, the situationdeteriorated due to the impact of HurricaneHugo
and rising labor resistance to the wage restraint. The credit closed in June 1992 after six extensions and the third
tranche was cancelled because key wage bill targets had been exceeded. The project was rated unsatisfactory in the
ImplementationCompletion Report, but later upgraded to moderately satisfactory by the Operations Evaluation
Department because significant trade and tax reforms had been achieved early and the macroeconomic impact of
those reformswas sustained.


92.     The main lessonsof the earlier adjustment operation were that:
          (c) small economies with severe capacity constraints in the public sector and subject to periodic
              natural disasters may require longer adjustment periods than more resilient economies;

          (d) limited capacity of a small economy creates the need for significant capacity-building
              measures and technical assistance to support the design and implementation of the reform
              program, and for effective donor coordination to avoid overburdening the country;

          (e) in countries, such as Dominica, where the political consensus i s fragile, the Bank may need to
              support governments in reaching understanding with civil society on the importance of
              neededreforms.

93.     Lessons learned from the SBA in FY02/03 further highlight the importance of a focused and
phased approach for implementing the reform agenda, the need for extensive technical assistance for its
design and implementation, and for building public understanding and acceptance for sustained policy
reform.

94.     Complementarity with other development partner programs. Dominica's request for fast-
disbursing support from the Bank complements ongoing assistance from the IMF, other development
partners and neighboring countries. As mentioned above, the authorities successfully completed the

~~




  InstitutionalDevelopment Fund.
                                                       22

second review of a one-year Stand-By Arrangement for SDR3.3 million with the IMF, initially launched
in August 2002, and extended through early 2004. On December 19, 2003, the IMFBoard approved a
three year arrangementunder the Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (PRGF) and a first disbursement
of SDR 2.4 million. The PRGF provides the macroeconomic framework for implementing the
Government's stabilization for SDR 7.7 million program. The proposed ERSO has been designed in
close collaboration with the Fund, and in parallel with both IMF programs. The Bank will continue to
coordinate closely with the IMF in the review of economic policy and the preparation and support of
individual reforms in Dominica.

95.    The proposed operation will also complement ongoing work under: (i)DFID's Fiscal and
Economic Recovery Project (FERP) with close collaboration on the public sector reform, improvements
in financial and debt management, and private sector development; (ii)CIDA's Eastern Caribbean
Economic Management Program (ECEMP) which is helping to strengthen budget and financial
management systems in Dominica; (iii)CARTAC's technical assistance for financial sector regulation,
treasury and expenditure management; and (iv) IMF/CARTAC support on tax reform. In addition, a
consortium of development partners, includingCARICOM, CDB, CIDA, CARTAC, DFID, EU, UNDP,
the World Bank, the IMF, and Caribbean countries is providing a coordinated net of technical assistance
to help the Government implement its stabilization and structural reform program. For example, the
Government of Barbados, UNDPand DFIDcollaborated to provide an expert to assist with improvements
inthe managementof the PSIP, in close coordination with the Bank. The Bank is also collaborating with
the EUand CDB on social protection issues inDominica.

C. Prior actions and benchmarks

96.    The Government's Letter of Development Policy included in Annex 1 outlines the short term
structural measures already under implementation and the steps being taken to define the medium-term
policy reform measures. The following are the key actions implemented by the authorities prior to Board
presentation of the ERSO. The Letter of Development Policy details the key follow-up actions
(benchmarks) that will constitute the second phase of the Government's reform program and also
identifies outcomes and performance measures on the basis of which the impact of the Government's
program will be evaluated.

         (a) Maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as demonstrated by the continued
             implementation of the Government stabilization program supported, inter alia, by the IMF
             PRGF.

        (b) Improve financial management by: (i)establishing a cash and commitment management
             systemthat adjusts line ministry expenditures allocations and enforces commitment limits on
             a monthly basis in line with resource availability; (ii)  reducing the number of government
             bank accounts; and (iii)  appointing an internal auditor to ensure the implementation of new
            financial managementprocedures at the ministry level.

        (c) Improve debt management by: (i)consolidating the management of external and domestic
             debt; and (ii) adoption of a comprehensive mediumterm debt strategy acceptable to
                          Cabinet
             the Bank.

        (d) Improve the management and execution of public investment by: (i)        adopting a three-year
            PSIP acceptable to the Bank; (ii)     issuing new procedures acceptable to the Bank for the
            planning and administration of public investment projects that identify clear criteria for
            project selection and establish a Projects Supervisory Committee to oversee the process; and
             (iii)
                 publicizing the first quarterly report on the execution of FY03/04 PSIP based on monthly
            reports of project expenditure from line ministries.




                                                   23

             Prepare, adopt and begin implementation of a Medium Term Public Sector Reform
             Strategy, acceptable to the Bank, for achieving greater cost efficiency and effectiveness of
             public service delivery focusing on: (i)modernizing public sector administration; (ii)
             strengthening expenditure management; (iii)   enhancing the enabling environment for private
             investment and (iv) rationalizing social service delivery and improving their targeting.

             Strengthen the operations of NCB through: (i)   establishing a Memorandum of Understanding
             between ECCB and NCB on actions to improve financial health of the bank, including time-
             bound benchmarks for reducing non-performing loans;            (ii)reduction of Government's
             shareholding in NCB below 50 percent and usinga significant share of the proceeds to reduce
             public sector arrears to NCB; (iii)restructuring NCB Board of Directors so that the
             Government cannot appoint more than three of the eight members, nor the Chairman; and (iv)
             repealing the NCB Act and placing the bank under the Companies Act to equalize its
             treatment with that of private commercial banks.

             Improve financial supervision and regulation of the credit union sector by: (i)   submittingto
             Parliament an amendment to the Cooperatives Act to assign responsibility for supervision and
             financial regulation of credit unions to MoFP; (ii)completing a joint MoFP/ECCB/
             Cooperatives Department inspection of the Roseau Cooperative Credit Union; and (iii)
             establishing a committee and timetable for revising cooperative regulations to operationalize
             MoFP role infinancial regulation and supervision of credit unions.

             Remain current on employer andemployeecontributionsto DSS from July 2003.

             Introduce a new mechanismfor adjusting domestic prices of petroleum products in line
             with international price movements, including regular price adjustments, a flat consumption
             tax and uniformallowances across industry operators.

             Reduce cargohandlingchargesat Dominica Port Authority by at least 25 percent.

D. Implementation,monitoringandevaluation

97.   The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MoFP) is the principal executing agency and has
responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the program. Other ministries and agencies,
notably the Public Sector Reform Management Unit, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and
Marketing, the Ministry of Communication, Works and Housing, and the ECCB, also have key roles in
executing the program, and are working closely with the MoFP in implementing program components
under their respective jurisdictions. The Government will provide quarterly written implementation
reports to the Bank. Inturn the Bank will monitor implementationthrough quarterly supervision missions
focusing on progfam benchmarks, reform outcomes (see Annex l),         and any unexpected policy reversals.
Missions would also provide technical assistance and advisory services. Inaddition, the authorities will
continue to provide monthly reports to the Independent Monitoring Group made up of civil society
representatives recently formed to review progress on the Government's reform program. The closing
date of the credit would be June 30, 2004.

E. Environmentalandsocialissues

98.   Environmental Issues. The proposed structural adjustment credit supports fiscal and regulatory
changes that do not have direct environmental impacts. Positive environmental benefits in the medium
term may emerge as a result of the introduction of the new petroleum pricing mechanism, which will
allow pass-through of international oil prices to consumers, creating a greater disincentive against
consuming polluting oil products, and possibly as a result of the electricity regulatory reform.

99.   Social Issues and Poverty Impact. The ERSO supports the Government's efforts towards a
resumption of economic growth and employment creation through the measures outlined above.
                                                  24

Simultaneously, the ERSO creates fiscal room for protecting essential recurrent expenditures in the
priority social sectors, thus preventing impoverishment of Dominica's lower income groups and human
capital degradation. The Government is committed to provide compensation for those employees who
will be affected by the implementation of the Public Sector Reform Strategy, and has approached
development partners for grant assistance. The reforms inthe electricity sector are geared to reducingthe
costs to the consumer by providing incentives for efficiency within the tariff setting mechanism in the
regulatory framework. Likewise the petroleumreform has special measures for the treatment of liquified
petroleumgas which i s primarily usedby low income households.

100. As indicated in paragraph47, Dominica has a range of social protection programs that will provide
a safety net over the short term for the current difficult times facing the country (notably through a Social
Investment Fund supported by the EU). The Government intends to further improve the coverage and
targeting of these programs, including to the Carib community, as part of its Public Sector Reform
Strategy (see para. 69). In addition, the resumption of government contributions to the Dominica Social
Security and the reform of DSS's investment strategy will help ensure its future solvency, while efforts to
restore financial sector soundness and improve regulation and oversight - particularly of the credit unions
-willhelpprotectthesavingsofdepositors,inparticularsmallaccountholders.

F. Fiduciaryarrangements

101. Disbursement and Auditing. This operation consists of single tranche credit of US$3 million
equivalent. The entire amount will be disbursed upon effectiveness. Disbursement arrangements will
follow the simplified procedures for structural adjustment loans approved by the Board on February 1,
1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank. The IMF has
conducted an on-site safeguards assessment of the ECCB on February 20, 2003 and concluded that it has
in place appropriate mechanismsto manageresources and that vulnerabilities than remain do not present
an undue risk. The ECCB i s currently implementing the recommendations from the safeguards
assessment.    Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower that the single tranche i s available for
withdrawal, the borrower may submit withdrawal application for the credit, so that the proceeds of the
tranche are deposited by the Bank in this account to be used in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
Disbursements would not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for disbursement is
therefore not required. The proceeds of the Credit would not be used to finance expenditures excluded
under the Credit Agreement. In accordance with Bank policy1,the deposit account will be audited on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank within six months of credit disbursement in accordance with
InternationalStandards on Auditing, by an independent firm acceptableto the Bank.

102. FinancialManagement and Procurement. As noted above, a key component of this operation
and the Government's reform program i s the improvement of financial management systems, practices
and regulatory framework in Dominica. Regarding procurement, the authorities are currently reviewing
the recently completed Country Procurement Assessment Report and Action Plan for Dominica for
inclusion under the Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy. In addition, the Dominica CPAR
complements an earlier OECS Procurement Assessment Report and Regional Procurement Action Plan
which was endorsedby all the OECS member countries, including Dominica, inMay 2003.

G. Benefitsand risks

103. The overall main benefit of the operation is to contribute to a resumption of growth and poverty
reduction through two complementary ways. First, the reform program supported by the ERSO aims at
correcting Dominica's unsustainable fiscal situation by improving public expenditure management,
launching a process to rationalize public service delivery, restoring financial sector soundness, and
creating fiscal room for financing essential recurrent expenditures. Second, the ERSO supports the first
stage of a multi-year effort to accelerate economic growth through reform measures aimed at reducing


 Guidelines:Annual FinancialReporting and Auditing for World Bank-FinancedActivities, June 2003
                                                    25

distortions and improving Dominica's competitiveness. As indicated in the Letter of Development
Policy, the Government intends to pursue implementation of the reforms initiated in this first phase and is
preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper which will detail the second stage of its reform agenda,
whose main pillars are public sector reform, debt restructuring, financial sector strengthening and
improvement of private investment climate, the components of which are presented in Section 111. The
Government's commitment to regaining fiscal sustainability and undertakingneeded structural reforms
provides a window of opportunity for the Bank to engage in this small island state. Moreover, given the
broader situation in the sub-region, there are significant potential positive externalities that could come
from Bank support of successfuladjustment in Dominica at this time.

104. All prior actions for this single-tranche operation have been met satisfactorily.        While policy
reversal of these actions i s highly unlikely, swift implementation of further stages of the Government's
reform agenda is however uncertain. The country faces a number of domestic and external risks that may
pose a threat to fiscal stability and economic recovery. In particular: (a) the outcome of the debt
restructuring exercise i s far from certain and would, if very different from envisaged, significantly alter
the macroeconomic program; (b) existing severe capacity constraints in the public sector (the result of
out-migration and outdated government processes) could delay the implementation of planned follow-up
reform measures; (c) after aprolongedrecession and the introduction of difficult stabilization measures in
FY02/03 and during FY03/04, lack of economic recovery over the coming year could lead to reform
fatigue on the part of the population and a deterioration of the Government's fragile political consensus;
and (d) external shocks, including natural disasters or continued global economic slowdown could delay a
resumption of fiscal sustainability.

105. Protracted negotiations or a particularly modest reduction in the public debt levels as a result of the
debt restructuringexercise would require Dominicato undertake the significantly higher fiscal adjustment
or obtain additional concessional financing in order to achieve sustainability which, given the already
achieved and planned adjustment efforts, and donor support, could be challenging.                 While the
Government i s committed to adjusting the fiscal targets in line with the outcomes of the debt restructuring
exercise to ensure fiscal sustainability, there are limits to what can be achieved over the short run while
safeguarding a resumption of growth and maintaining social stability.

106. To mitigate the capacity risks, the Government has identified its technical assistance needs and a
coordinated group of donors and regional partners has been providing assistance to support the reform
program. The World Bank has provided significant technical assistance in the areas covered by the
ERSO and plans to continue to do so, along with regular program supervision, joint missions with other
donors and analytical and advisory services.

107. To mitigatethe political risks, the Government has undertaken an extensive consultation effort with
trade unions, private sector organizations and political forces on the reform agenda to increase
understanding of the difficult challenges facing the country and build support for the stabilization and
structural reform agenda for 2003 and beyond. Since the onset of the stabilization program in late 2002,
quarterly meetings were held with an Economic Stabilization Consultation Group (ESCG) comprising
trade unions, private sector and civil society.       The Government has also undertaken a "Change
Management" program within the public sector to sensitize officials to the need for reform. The open
public debate of the proposed fiscal measures leading up to the June 2003 presentation of the
Government's budget to Parliament was crucial in the smooth implementation of the public sector wage
cut (see para. 9). At the request of civil society, the ESCG has now been replaced by an Independent
Monitoring Group made up of civil society representatives, including religious organizations, which
receive monthly reports on the stabilization and structural reform program and publicize their own
analysis of the Government's performance. In addition, the ongoing work on the PRSP and the Public
Sector Reform Strategy involves a broad spectrum of stakeholders in an effort to build political
consensus.




                                                   26

108. Contagion effects could also arise vis-&vis the financial sector, although this represents a remote
risk. Inthe context of Dominica's fragile domestic banking sector, the collapse of one of its commercial
banks or credit unions could spread throughout the sub-region's vulnerable domestic banking sector and
destabilize the shared currency board arrangement. However, the proposed operation addresses this risk
through the policy measures relating to Dominica's National Commercial Bank which will serve to
insulate it from further fiscal pressures and improve its management and asset quality, and measures
related to the credit union sector. At the same time, the Bank will review ECCB's efforts to update the
sub-region's unified banking regulations which seek to strengthen the powers of the central bank to
intervene in troubled institutions. Finally, the Bank will continue working closely with the IMF and the
ECCB to help the subregion implement the recommendation of the ongoing OECS-wide FSAP.'




' As indicated inthe 2001 CAS, the Bank plans to support implementation of the FSAP recommendations through a
OECS-wide financial sector operation.
                                                   27

              ANNEXES




ANNEX 1. LETTER
             OF DEVELOPMENT
                        POLICY




               28

_ _ . -01/06/2004
        - - - - -       09: 50   -.  17674480054
                                      --.                            MIN OF FINANCE                             PAGE 02/13




          Tal: (787)446-2.401 Extn.-16
                      -        Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica
                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE 6 PLANNING
                                                                                      FlrraneBuWig,9 flaor
           Fax:(787)                                                                    KennedyAvenue, Roseau
           E-mail: flnsec@cudnm.dm                                                      commonwealthof Dominka
                                                                                         west Indies
           Ref:




                                                    Letter of DevelopmentPolicy


                                                                                            Roseau.January 5,2004


           Mr. JamesWolfensohn
           Presidem
           The World Bank
           1818HStreet, NW
           Washington,DC 20433

           Dear Mr.Wohsohn:

           1. This letter describes the economic programmeof tbe hrnmerrt ofthe Coinmawealthof Dominica
           launched to m r s e the recent deterioration in the fiscal position and lay the groundwork fix economic
           recovery and achieving robust economic &wwth m the coming ycars. In &IS             later we describe the
           measures already uudertaken as well as those we intend to adopt m the future. We request financial
           assistance frmnthe World Bank, inthe fimn of an adjust" operatian,to support our efhrts to stabilize
          the e m m y andstimulate a " p t i i o n ofgrowth.

           Dominica's EconomicandSocialSituation

           2    Damin~cahas beenhithardbystnretural changes, prmcipallythe phasingout ofprefkmtial access to
           UK and Europeanbanana markets, the slowdown intourism fbUowmg the tenonst attacks m the US on
           September 11,2001, andthe reversal offins inthe off-shore sector As a result, the economy c a r t t a d
           by 9% between 2001-2002 Tt was mevitable W the poor growth performanceafkted public finances
           wh~chdecenoratwlto an owrall deficitof 11%ofGDPinFYOO/Ol

           3. In order to a r m the detmoration, the Government began preparinga stabd~sationprogramwtth help
           from ECCB m 2001. By August 2002, we had embarked on a Stand-By k q e m e n t d h the IMF
           including a package of ambdous fiscal measures. Howwer, atthough important progress was made
           during FY01/02, delays in the implementation of the public sector investment progmnme and other
           db",and a deeper ecanomic ccmract~cmthan was anticipatedcausedrevenues                   ~.IJ Mterand the
          p q " e to go offtrack. Inthe summer of2003, the Gwemmeut negotiatedan emension dthe Stand-
           By Arrangement with the IMFthruugh the end of 2003. The program included a package of politically
           difficult fiscal" r e s     a " t h g to around2 5% ofGDP. `These measur89includeda 5% public sedar


                                                           29

01/06/2004
       . -     09: 50
               -.          176744800.54
                           - -                               MIN OF FIfiANCE                            PAGE 63/13




   wage cut and extension of the stabilisatim levy (a payroll tax) which were agreed to by ESOvemmd
   empJoyees and their unions abr extensive cmsuMan and public debate, an mcreasc m the sales tax, a
   freeze on hiring (with the exccptxon of a few critical positions), reductions of overtime pay and certain
   allowmces, and better control over the use of temporary M. The programW, in turn, suppodby
   pledges of US$22 million from the intematimal dunor community and our OECS and CPLRTCOM sister
   countries. We have made sipfiat progress inimplementingthe progmq hcludjngthe wage Cut, and
   have remained on-track to date. As a result negotiationswith the IMSwere mccessfully concluded On
   December 10,2003 fmaccessmgthe IMF's PovertyReductionandGmwtbFacilrtym Jaauary 2004.

   4. Dominica's main challenge is h a very hqh level of accumulated public debt (exkmal and d ~ m d ~ )
   which has gown by the needto finance recent fiscal deficits. At the a r m level d112% of GDP,this
    debt burden poses a real threat to the achievementof fiscal balance ma in the medium term andto &e
    resumption of g r d . Total debt service now cansumes 36% of revenues and extemal debt service is
   estimatedto be 1.4% of our exports of goods and services in 2003. Servicing of this level of debt is nat
   possible d o u t such a large correction in the balance of income and expenditure as to mut social and
   political instability. More so, by divsrting public expenditure aw:r.%m prionty areas, or by requiring
          higher levels of taxation, the ememely high level of the debt severely lintits the camtry's
    investment and powthprospects.

    5. The ecunomic siowdawn and related fiscal difficulties hurt the entire pclpulation of Dominica, but
    especia3ly the poor. A recently completed Country Povexty Assessment indicates that poverty is au the
    rise md now a f k t s 29% of the households, of which 1096 are cansidered indigent. but also that it is
    fica-ly    related to unemplopent. Poor households have an unemployment rate of 40% as opposed KO
    16% of nm-poarhousehotds. As such, tho Govement recognizesthe h p m c e of job creation to raise
    incomes and livingstandards.

    The Government's Programme

    6. Since the begi"3 of FY03/04, the Government has redoubled its ef#rts to implement a strong
    rekmprogrammethat iscrediblewiththepopulationailargeandwhicht h d r e canbesustained mthe
    coming years. Reobgnizingtba the solution would be a mediumterm one, the Government embarked on
    a. two phase strategy. The first stage involved the extension of the Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF
    described above @am.3). This providedthe breathing space needed by the GwemmuTt and people of
    Dominicato kmulatea mediumtermprogrammeneededto support economic recoverywhich Will fbrm
   the secondphaseofthe stabllisatianandrecbveryprogramme.

    7. To preparefor the second phase, the Guvementhas fbrmulated a number of important mediumterm

    Development (DFID) and the World Bank and started implementing, a Medium Term Public Sector
    strmgas. Fim the Govermnent has completed, with support Lin the Jhpamnart fir baematianat

    R e h n Strategy (MTPSRS) which aims to improve the cost efficiency of the public sector while
    improvingthe delivery ofthose sewices and fimctions that are cruckl to spurrmg growth, andprtJtectmg
   the vulnerable during the austerity period.   Second, with assistance fiom the Government of Barbados,
    DFID, UNDP and the World Bank,the Gave"&             prepared a three-year program of public investment
   fir R03/04-Fy05/06 which will be updated fix the FY04/05 budget               Third the Gwemmeat has
    recently completed a strategyfor dealing with Dominica's highdebt burden. Each ofthese is describedin
    moredetailbelow.

    8. These strategies ham been incorporated m an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that we
    shared with the World Bank and 1M on December 1, 2003. The I-PRSP builds on the cctlsultatious
    from an earlier htqnted DevelopmentPlanning exerase supportedbythe European Union (ELI) during
    2002. and a Country Paverty Assessment supportedby the Canbbean DevelopmentBank and DFID. In

                                                        2
                                                  30

01/06/2004     09: 50       17674480054
                               --                             MIN OF FINANCE                               PAGE 04/13




   addition, it addresses findmgs fsom the analytical work completedby the World Bank over the last year,
   includinga Country FinancialAcmintabillty Assessment, a CountryProcurementAssesmerrt Report, an
   ongoingpublic expenditure review, and a Socjal ProtectionReview,as well as a nudy un tax policyand
   administration by the INF and the Caribbean Technical Assistance Centre (CARTAC), a report on
   medum term stabilisatian and adj"t             supported by CDB, work on ptimte sector dmelopmeut
   completed by DFTD and a study on insituhcmalframework for regulationafthe offshore sedor and non-
   bank financial i"s          by CARTAC. W& support fnrm UNDPthe Govement is prep-                  a concise
   -C        framework fixmedium-term developmentin a m g e of sectors whch will be reflectedinthe fid
   PRSP.

   9. In summary, the overarchq goal of the G m r e m ' s pwm is to empower the citizens of
   Dominica to carrtnbute to their own well-being, and to facilitate aa environment m which prlMte
   enterprise can flaunsh. The broad strategy focusas an layingthe platformfor e m m c growth h g h
   stabilisq public finances and estabhhing prudent fiscal and expenditure management, imprwing
   Govemmcntp e r f m a n e by inmasmgthe cost etficiency ofpublic s m c e delivery, creating an enabling
   c"mtforbusmessandimprovingthe~~~L-IKIo~f~growthsectorstowardemploymentcrdon,
                                                                   C C
   andmcreasmgparticipationofstakeholdersineconomicacnvrcyanddecision-making.

   Regainingfiscal sustainability

    10. At present, Dominicais s&bring from d&t overhang. mvestmemhas declinedto about one-third of
    its lcvel in 1998, while taxation has increased over the past fcw years, The high level of debt creates
   uncertainties about h r e taxation and expenditure priorities which lead to lower investment and grcnvth.
    Inorder to unprove investment and growth prospects,the cloud of ,future&an          needsto be removed.
   The Government's objective is to restore growth partly through the elimination of fiscal imbalancesanda
   sizable reduction mthe country's debt burden, The programwill targetthe historicalaverage grawth rate
   of 2 percent per annum, aimto presewe price stabilicy, and reduce the extemal Cumat account deficit by
   nearly50percentthroughimprovements incompetitiwness.

    11. The Ciawmment will undertake to restructure its debt with our creditors w& t h ~          intWtion of
   a c h i h g a reduction m debt levels as a percartage of GDP. We have prepared a mediumterm debt
   strategy wtuch outlines our intentions ia this regard, and have conuacted an imemationaUy-recognized
   financial adviser and leading international law fimto assistus in&is effort. OnDecem& 17,2003, the
   Gc"ment publiclyarmouncedthe debtrestructuringexerciseandstad&iscussions witlithe creditors.

    12. In conjunction with the debt resuucturing, the Gavemmsntintendsto achieve a primary surplus of at
   least 3 percadof GDP by FY06/07, m orderto regainfiscal sustapzabd@c I h e underlyingfiscal position
   l k FYCJ3/04 is a p h a r y detick of 2 percerrt of GDP (excluding exceptional graats that are not expected
   to occur again). Fiscalmeasures equivalentt4 5 percentof GDP will be adoptedto achieve the medium-
   term objective. A major amponart ofthe measures will ba a further reduaiun ofthe public sector wage
   bjJJby 10 percent over the next two years by reduang positions. This action will be supported by the
   EuropeanUnionfundrngfor redundancypackages.

   13. In order to achieve this medium-term target, the Govemem wiil front-load our ltiscal adjustmeat
   effbrcs bytargetmg a pnmary surplus of: {a) 0.5 percent of GDP for the next fiscal year; @I)2 percent of
   GDP for FY05/06; and (c) 3 percent of GDP fbr N06/07. However,these targets would be adjustedto
   a c c m a h t e the cost of sevwrance pameats associatedwiththe reduction m public service employmcfilt,
   unless they are fmanced by grants. Even after the adoption of the fiscal ad~ustmaameasures for the
   Fy04/05 budgq sizeable financmg saps wdl "am,           of the order of 8% of GDP for 2004, which are
   e x w to becoverwf bythedebt restructuring.


                                                        3
                                                    31

01/06/2004      09: 50
                  .  .-    .-17574480454
                                -                               MIN OF FINANCE                             PAGE 05/13




    14. Debt m a n a m. The G"mt also mognized that weaknesses m debt managem-                       inherrted
   from previous administrationshave been a critical factor inthe rapid rise of our public debt burden. In

   management of "a1
   order M correct this, theand Gowmment has taken a number of steps, mcludmg the cansolidation ofthe
                                   domestic debt in the newly estabhshed Cash and Debt Manage"           unit
   and, witb the help of the World Bank, has begun a review of debt managematr l@f&on                with the
   iZaention to update it and strengthen accountability and conno1o m the Conaactjng ofpublic debt. Tt is
   our intention&that  the revision ofthis legislationwill be ready for presaaation to Parliamentby Drrember
   2004.

    15. Tax mb-" Wah support from CARTAC andthe I M F ' s Fiscal AfEZirs Departmart, the GoVemmerrt
   has completed a review of the tax system and has jd&ed           a number of key reforms that wlll help to
   srengtben revenue mobilization. In particular, the Govermnent is commitid to the intrududcm of a
   Value Added Tax to replaceOUT current sales and consumptiontaxes. Work has already startedto prepare
    hr the implem~mwh& we hope to achieve by mid-2005. The Government will take a policy
   decision to reduce signiflicantly discretiunary tax exemptims by F d December 2003 in an effort to
    rationalize our tax system. In addition, we will also muduct a review by mid-2004 of statutory and
    discrecianarytax exemptions with a view to assessingtheir cd%aimess andjustiiicatiun, and to prevent
    abuses.

   Ensuringthat government expenditureis efficiently and effectivelyusedandmanaged

    16. Financial manamert. The recent fiscal outcomes ievoaledthat Dominica needed to accelerate an
    ongoing program supported by CIDA's Eastem Caribbean Economic ManagementProgram ( E C W ) to
    strengthen OUT financial management systems and practices. Wrth support from DFD and CARTAC, and
   on the basis of a recently agreed Financial Manage" Actian Plan fiom the World Bank Country
    Financial Accountabllrty Assessment (CF,AA), the Govern" bas taken a series of measures to
    immediatelyimprove casb mabagemat and expenditure cmtrols. These includethe establishment of a
   new Cash Manage" Committeeand Cash and Debt Management Unit mthe Myllstry of Finance and
    Plannhg (MoFP) that maitor cash availability and line ministry Commmnents and spending. Together
   with the Budget DiVisiCm, these bodies have begun adjusting expenditure allocations and enforcing

   line ministries on cash management and commitment controt was held m December and an b
   c a m " e n t lrmie tbr line ministries an a monthly basis as per revenue inflows. A training sessionafarl
    Auditor has been appointed to help ensure that line ministries and agencies fbllk new financial
   managementprocedures. To help strqthen cash management the Government has also streamlined the
   number of bank awounts used fbr public busmess, although sane of those remain because of
   requirements by donor agencies.        In addition, the Gowrnment has taken measures to improve the
   monitoring and cmtrol of the remaining public banks accourrts. ?me actions haw helped to halt the
   increasem, andreducsthe stodc of, arrearsby ECS.7millim duringthe first quarter dFY03104.

    17. Under CIDA's ECEW, a new compirterized information system (SIGFIS) is operational today m
   five ministries and departmePrts and will be rolled out to all ministries, departments and agencies by the
   end ofthis fiscal par. W& coutinuinghelp from DFIDand CARTAC, we imendto further strengthen
   the l31ancial rnmqmmt and budget processes, including by improvingthe covmge of the budget and
   public acmms. In support &these efforts, tbe Gove"emt will prepare a new Finance Admmstdon       . .
   Act which reflectsallthe newprocesses andproceduresfor submissionto ParliamentbySeptember2004.


   recovers. we will need to improve the productivity afpublic mveslmeut in supporting a resUmption of
    I S . Public investment. The Government recognisesthat during the next fkw years as private mvesbnent

   grcwfh, afbeit within limits of   OUT  fiscal program. Witb the asststance of the World Bank and the
   Government of Barbados who seconded One of their seaiot staff to assist us, we haw made substantial
   progress m addressing this challenge. We have restructuredthe public sector invwtment pmgram, first by


                                                     32  4

                                                               MIN OF FINANCE                                   PAGE a m 3




extendingthe planninghorizonto threeyears and by cancelhg a number of problemprojeas that were
itxconsistent with the priorities of spurring growth and reducing poverty. Second, we wfocused the irst
year ofthe threeyear program, FY03/04, an pmJeasthat stimulate growth, are labour intensiveto h@
provide short term employment, and have primarily extemal cancessicrnalhancmg.                 Six petcent ofthe
FY03/04 PSIP is being h a n d by government resources, with 68% combg from external me, and
27% fmexternalloans.

 19,New procedures governingthe public invesnnart programme have been adoptd which clarie the
selection criteria and approval processes for newprojects andensurethat adequate analysis i s undertaken
before projects are included in the national program, includingthe consistency oftheir W c h g with the
GOvemrnent's debt strate~3y. A Projects Supervisory Committee has been appointedto oversee seledon
and financing, and to guide the imp1emart;aian of all projects. Already we ham achieved improved
monitoring of the PSIP as evidenced by the publication of ttxe first quarrerly e x d o n report based 011
almost complete reporting by line ministries of the execution of both g m " t                 and donor-financed
projects.     This report has been shared with th0 public through the lndEpendepa Monit4iolg *up
(discussedbelow). Our     " r t i j o n rate ofthe PSKP ha5 increased from 10% in h e first qusrtar o fRT02/O3
(albeit this may have been excaptionally low because of over-projscriagand under-reporting), to 91% m
the first quarter ofFY03/04. Underthe reorganizatianof Ministry of Finance, the Public Invemnentlht
will be               by iillinga number ofvacancies. The next s t ? , d be to update Chethree-prPSIP
under the new procedures. This work has already started and will be campleted m h e with budget
preparatian in 6r FY04105.

20. Public Sector Re-.           The Gowrnmeot recognizes that the cumat lmts of public expenditure and
public sector &ng      are no longer affordable given Dominica`s growth prospects m the medium term.
The Gavermnerrt intends to accomplish this through a fundamd rd.orm of tbe public sector in
Dominica (see para. 12). To ths enh,the Government has prepared, wi& the participatjm ofthe p r i w
sector and civil society, a Medium T m Public SecCor Reformstrategy (M"SRS) that aims to reduce
the cost of government m an orderly and &&dive way in order to achieve fiscal and broader economic
stability and at tbe same time Create a dynamic, accountable, eficient and effective public service to
provide a stmng basis for the sustainable and irrtegratd political, social and economic development of
Dominica. The strategy has fbur key components: (i)           modernize public admwstratr`an; (ii)strengthen
                                                                                       . .
economic                 (ii) theenablkgenvimmart, and(iii)
                                enbance                                         rationalize social service delivery
andimproveitstargeting.

21. A Task Force, chaired by the Minister of HeaTth (designated champion) comprising public oS,cicials,
the private sector and civil society has been appointedto oversee the implmdcm ofthe suategy. The
Reform Management Unit which will cosrdinzte the implemcntatian af the shategy bas btxn
strengthendby the ad&m oftwo advisers inthe areas ofpublic sector m c d " i o n and priVate sector
develupment with suppan fiom the European Union. In addition, further teclznical assistance will be
provided for the social service rationabion component of the strategy.              Assisted by DFID, wrk has
already begun on a number of the componmts.                  Under t t i - e S m compaaent "Modernize Public
Adminis~atim",work an the formulation of a mediumtenm policy agenda and @"en&                           to the line
ministry corporate planning process has been initiated over the last %wmomhs, as well as prepa"s
for implementing a manpower planning model developed in-house m FYO4105.                     The work on social
senrices rstionalisatianis expected to include an examinatioo of uptions f;x school consoiidation in order
to reachmore eEcierrt pupil-teacher ratios, possibilities for cost recovery inthe health semr andways to
b p m targeting of public assistance progiams. `Iha report af a Scoping Study on Stxn@hening the
Enabling Eavirmmeut for R i m e Sector Development (SEED) which was . h d d by DFID has been
adopted by Cabinet and the majar recommandationshave formed palt o fthe work planfor &e compmmt
ofthe private sedor develapmentpartofthe MTPSRS.


                                                        5
                                                   33

-. -..01/06/2004
              -.     09: 50
                         - -17674480054                           MIN OF FINANCE                                PAGE 07/13




         Protectingthe poor duringthe stabilisatioaand adjustmentperiod

         22. In addition to the preparation ofthe I-PRSP dis~ussedabove, th? Cmemment is m g a numbcr of
         measures to pmteclthe poor and vulnerable during &e stabilisatim period. We have also identified a
         number o f cmcial expendhues in.the social sectors which are being protected durmg the     CUIT-    fiscal
         year. The MTPSRS w3.I address the imprmurt intargeting of social pmtectian pm-                  including
         through the preparah`an of a national povarty map. In addition, the Enropean Union has p e m s l y
         pmvided fimding fbr a new Social hvestment Fund of EC$13.5 million o m three years. Fm&, the
         Govemerrt intends to pravide campensmion to the public sector employees affected by the
          donalizatian exercise discussed above, and to offer a program of assistance for hebhg these persans
         fmd alternativesources of " m e andemployment.

         Jmpravingthe climate far privateinvestmentandtheperfomance of growthaectors

         23. The economic slowdown over the past decade has taken a toll     o(1tbe well-being ofthe papularion.
         By undertaking difficult measuros to address the fiscal situation and increase co~xlpetitivwless, the
          Cbmn"t intends to send a positive signal to the private sector that it k committed to better
          management of the economy. Through this demonstration &ct,         we aim ta restore mfidence. As
          detailed below, the G o v e " t is also addressing a number o fictofi that were proyen obstacles to
         greater prime sector investment and activxty jn the past. Steps to reduce the cost o f doing busmess Will
         have a posirive effect on g r 4 by amactiug more investment and increasingpro& margins ofdcandc
          producers.

          24. Public-~rivatesear relations. Inthe cmsu~onsover the past p r , the primte sector indicated a
         needto institutionalize relatims with the GOvemmQlt on ismrc!--iAto m             w climate and  m.
          To this end, the Govemment has established a Cansultatiw Working Group on Private Sector
          Develupmmt and, whh assistance h m the European Union, appolmed a Private Seaor A h o r m the
          Reform Mamgement Unit. In addition, the private sector is in the process of establishing an umbr~lla
          group to liaisewith the Gmmmentonrelevantissuw.

          25. Tourism. Giving ef%ct to the vision of making our courrtry a major nature tourism destination of the
         wdd, the Govemeut mtcnds to find ways to more carefidly define its niche inthe world          fca-t"
         market. Inthis regard, we arepreparingan Eco-TourismStrategy with support fimthe EuropeanUnion.
         Work has a h started on impwvemaa~to the Melville Hall w o r t and on the Melville Hall-Roseau
          road, which are financed bythe EUmdAgence FrancaisedeDeveluppement,respectively

          26 Apriculture. Banana exports were Once a staple of our economy. but have declbned sharply due to a
         new extemalenvironment. Wfi support fbm a number of dcmors, the Govern" has embarked on. a
         program to improve productMty in the banana sector and promote diVersi4Cation mm agri-1
         products such as orgmc production, fisheries and livestock rhrougb investments in imgatJcm, access
         mads and dlenterprise development. The Dominica Banana Marketing Company has recently been
         primtisedand is shiftingtoward specialisedpmctuct.ianandnichemarkeung.

         27. Financial sector. Integral to the business envimmmt in Daminica, a sound homcial sector is
         necessary for mobilismg saw,providing efficient commercial transactions and credit tinancing fbr
         private mwstment. In this respect, the Govermnent has taken a number dmeasutes to strw~gthenkey
         institutions m the kancial sectox, including the National Comme'rcial Bank, the Agricultural Industrial
         Develop" Ban4 andthe &OE            andcredit union subsectors.

         28. Nark" Commerctal &mk (NCB). With respectto the NCB, Dominica`s largestfinancial instituticm,
         the Gwe"ent intends to take steps to strengthen the bank and make it a compeatiW player in the sub-

                                                            6
                                                       34

01/06/2004        09: 50     171674480054
 "_                 ...                                        MIN OF FINANCE                             PAGE 68/13




   regionalfinancial market, As a first step. the Govenunent has reduced its shareholdiag in the bank *Om
   51% to 49%, reduced its repW&dan an the NCB Board of Directon and p h c d it ~ n d d                   the
   Companies Act (repealing the NCB Act) to level the playing fieldSecuritieS commercial banks. n e s e
   steps pave the way fix NCB to be listed on the Ea-         Can%-      with otherExchange hearly2004. In
   addition, the Govemmm iutends to "-act           an inv"        advisor to propose the best modalay for
   &vesting additional shares m the commercial bankand has approachedthe EuropeanUnionfor assistance
   in this regard. The C b e " e n t intends to reflcct the recommendationsofthe ongoing OECS FSAP in its
    fuhrre actionsto further strengthenanddivestNCB.

    29. An additional area d mcem for the Gw"ent is the concentration of NCB's portfolio m the
   public sector.       A siguificaut share of the proceeds of the sale of shares has been used to reduce
   G o v e " & ' s    arrears to NCB and Dominica Social Security (DSS).    Tnthe m d e , NCB will adhere
    strictly to the central bank's prudential guidelines regardmgthe taking of irxtere~einto income on, aud
   making proVision for, any public sector debt and debenturesthat are in arrears. To furtbet @rove the
    apmians of the bank, the Eastem Caribbean Central Bank has established a memorandum of
    understandingwith the National Commercial Bankunder which NCB is taking measuresto strengthen its
    cr&    managementand reduceits level ofnon-perf;orming loans.

    30. Agricultural Industrial Developmnt Rank (AID). ln a similar m,the Govenuneut intends to take
    measures to strengthen the s " e d       Agncuhral IndusaialDevelopment(AID) Bank. LikeNCB, the
    Govommemimends to r&ce its role in the management of the bmk and is m the process o f retaining a
    consultant ta conductan audit of its portfolioand waluate strategic opt".

    3 1. Credit Unions. Dominica's vibrant credit unions are a major cornponeart of the financial sector. The
    Gown" has embarkedon a programto strengthen non-banking financial inszitmons through the
    establishment of a single regulatoryand supervisory unit under the h4hstry of Finance and Planning,
    which will receive technical assistance m its functions from the Eastem Caiibean Central Bank. Wrth
    respectto the credit union sexor, this unitwill share responsibilitieswith the CooperativesDepartment of
   the &istry       of Communrty DewlcrpmeMand Gender Affiirs for the overs@        ofthe credit union sector.
    The Government has amended the Cooperatives Act to assign the'responsibil~tyfor financial. regukdion
    and supemision of credit uuim to the MofP. As a i5-sstep m operationalizlngthis amgem-                the
   Gwe"ent, with the assistance of ECCB, completed a pilot joint MoFP-Cocperatives Department
    inspection of the largest credit union, Roseau Cooperative Credit Union, in December 2003.             A
    Committee comprising representatives from the Cooperative League, (a civil society group), Mom, and
   the Coopemtives Depart" has been establishedto rwiew the regulations under the Cooperatives Act.
   This work is expected to be campleted by March 2004. Once the new repuldons are m place, the
   Gavemment expects to complete inspedcra of der Iarge coopdyes by December 2004. The MoFP
   and the Cammissioner of Cooperatives will also take steps to ensure that any vulnerable credit unions
   take timely measuresto streogthen their operations.

   32. Dominica Social Securiry @Sg Since July 2003, the Go~mmer~t ramained ament on its
                                                                                 has
   payments of employer and employee contributionsto Dominica Social SecuriCy. As the same time, the
   Government is concerned that the DSS portfblio is amcerrttatedheavily inpublic sector assets, as well as
   locally. To this end, the DSS boardofdirectorshas adopteda policythat 20% ofDSSportfblioshmldbe
   invested in assets outside of Dominica. The Government has instructed DSS to prepara, by end March
   2004, a %mal mediumandlongterm investmentstrategyto achievethis tam.

   33. Ofly'shore sector. Dominica bas been making sceady improvements m the management of its o m o r e
   sector. The legislative framework is largely complete and the Mmey LaunderingSupervisory Authority
   and Fmslcial Intelligence Units are fully statfed. As a result of these ffirts, the CoUIxtry was removed
   f"theFATFlistofn&cooperatmgcuuutriesandterritorieskrktober2002andtheofihoresector

                                                         7
                                                    35

01/06/2004     09: 50      176744800c4
                              .. -
                                                              MIN OF FINANCE                              PAGE 89/13




   has declined substantially. All of the off5hore banks, but one have closed or have been   C b S e da d the
   number of international business companies has fkllen by over 80 percent. The Government r-ses
   the needto rwiewthe patential ofthe otFshoresector.

    34. Petroleum pricinq. In an effort to stabjlize revenues f?om the oil imports, cocrect price distortions
   with respect to downstream products while ensuring the long tenn sustainability of the sector, the
    Government has begun implementation of a refomprogflm in the petroleum sector involvinga revision
    ofthe price structure and raxaticm mpthod. ,InOctober 2003,        the assistance o f d~ World Bank, the
    Govemment replaced its old system of ad hoc adjustments to petroleum retail prices and a fluctuating
    consu~ontax with a mechanism m which retail prices are adjusted                       8 weeks to d e c t
    fl~ctuath"inthe import prices and are basedOna formula includinga flat Cansumpaantax of ECS2.70
    per imperjal gallon. The Gom"t will ccQltinue neguiatiuns             cw    participantsin January 2004
    to review the operation ofthe new system wit11 a view to ensuring thar the most c0mpetit.i~Imek are
    achieved. The Govemrnem will also take steps to streamline tbe price adjusmzntprocess and codzfy it in
   the regulations to the Supplies Coutrol Act by a d February 2004. At the same time, the Gdvemmerrt i s

    Trinidad- Dominica'smainsource-to the rest ofthe region. The Gwemment,m collaborationwith the
    supparthg a number of other CARICOM sates which are reviewingthe pricingofpmleumproducts by

    OECS Secretariat, will also host a workshop early next year to showcase our reform programio other
    OECS membercountries.

    35. Electricitv refinn. Recamly, as a radt of the re versa^ of a customs tax exemption an fuel imported
    fm electricity generation, DominicaElectricityServices   -the privatelyawned u!iliry sought to increase
                                                                                          -
    tariffs by 17% to reflect the increased fie1 costs. Tbe Gwemmt teels tbat the company can and should

    the r e g u h q hmwork, including tarifF setting mechanisms, for the electric settof with the aim of
    q m t e more efficierrtiy. With the help of the World        the Govemment has coqbtd a review of

    pdding greater m c d v e for efTiciency and adequate consumm protection. Government has amended
    the Electricity Supply Act as the first stage of a process of compr&erxsively revising the regulatory
    frameworkfor the electricity sector, the entireprocessto be campldbyJune 2004.

    36. Maritime trans^ort costs. The Government had long recognizad &at high port charges s t " h g
    from outdad work anangments were an importaut stumbling block ra Dominica's competitiVeness.
    However, difficulties m negotiating with the port workers' union mcludmg m a l court actions delayed
    any resolution o f this matter. The Dominica Port Autbonty has now revised its work arrangemem~
    allawing it to reduce stewdoring and lang-shoring charges by 23;; and cbarges fbr handling break-bdk
    cargo by 30% as o f August 2003. These measures are expectedto reducethe transportations casts which
    have been a major impedimentto increasing exports, and costs of imporcs. This has already resultedin
    rhe remaal of additianal charges by key shipping fines, includingan ECS190 per entamer surcharge by
    the Caribbean Shrp h e r s ' Associatian Pendingthe outcome of a remaiDjng Tribunal adion pertaining
   ta the role oftbe union m w k      ram,the Port Authoritywill negotiateanewcantractwith the aimof
    furrher reducingmaritimetransportcosts.

    37. Public mtemrises. The Government is completinga review of public i"ent             and invOlvemattin
    private enterprises, includingthrou& minority share ownership and loanguarantees, as part of a broader
    review ofthis issue. Toe Govemmmt intends to adopt a dear policy for the establishment of public
    enterprises and public investment m private companies, and prepare a programto implement this policy
    underthe MedimTermPublic Sector R&m Strategy. byJune 2004.

    Increasingparticipation of stakeholders in programmemonitoring

    38. Throughout the stabilisation program, the Ganm& has followed an approach of openness and
    consultation with a broad cross-section of` Dominicans, Extensive amsultatians with labour unions

                                                         8
                                                     36

01/06/2004 .- 09: 50  .-    17674480054
                              -.     -.-                        MIN OF FINANCE
                                                                         I                            PAGE 16/13



                                                            ,



   during the Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF preceded important changes in the agreed fiscal
   measures. The Reform Management Unit held regular sessions within the public &ce          ta sensitize
   officials on their role in the stabibsatiun programme. Meetingswere heldwith an Economic Stabilisatim
   Cansukatian Group (ESCG) comprisingtrade unians, private sector and civil society. Earlier this year,
   them was widespread and open public debate of the proposed fiscal measures leading up to the June
   p r e s d o nofthe Governmeat'sbudgetto Parliament. Onthis basis. we were able to undertakethe vex)'
   di&cult public sector wage cut with considerablepublic understanding and acceptance. At the request of
   civil society, the Govemmart reedy appointed an Independent Monitoring Group made up of civil
   society represdves, including m@ous               organizatiuns, which receive monthly reports OD. the
   stabilisatim program and publish their own analysis of our performance       The Govim" intends to
   continue this approach of openness and pansparemythroughout the implemdm of the medium term
   refbrmprogramme.

   39. In addition, the G-cm"em wiJl provlde quarterly written intplemdan reports and any otber
   relevant inhmat.ion on the progress of the r&m programmeand ecanomic developments in the country
   to theWorldBankthroughend 2004.

   Requestfor Financial Assistance

   40. The Gavemmeut is fully an."to securing a better future for Dominica through economic
   stabitisation and growth, and has developedthe programme o f reforms outtined above andin the attached
   matnx to achieve this end We wauld like to requestthe World Bank's assistance as we embark on this
   challenglng but necessary path.       We look f o m d to working together wth the World Bank 011
   implemerrtingthis pmg"ne and developmga scmegy furthe future.



                                                  Sincerelyyours,
                                                     w
                                PrimeMinisterandPierre   Charles
                                                   Minister&Finance andPlanning




                                                        9
                                                     37

                                                 Electronic copy of attached matrix




                                                                                                                                outcomes
                                                                                                                        Performance Measures

                    Satisfactory macroeconomic framework as             Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic     Satisfactoryperfoonance on
macroeconomic           demonstrated by the continued                     framework.                                    the Govemment's
L
management              implementationof the Govemment                                                                  stabilisation programme
                        stabilisation program                                                                           supported inter alia by the
                                                                                                                        IMF PRGF.
                    Improve financial management by                     Roll out Minformation system to remaining     Effective expenditure and
management          (i) establishing a cash and commitment                line ministries andagencies [June20041        commitment controls in
                        management system that adjusts line             Submit new FAA Act to Parliament                place
                        ministryexpenditures allocationsand               [September 20041.                           Improvedbudget execution
                        enforces commitment limits on a monthly         Preparation of Cash Management Manual           and cash management
                        basis in line with resource availability;         [June 20041                                   Achievement of specific
                    (ii) reducing the number of govemment bank          Continue monthly reportingby line ministries  expenditure targets under the
                        accounts; and                                    and presentation of monthly reports to       Govemmenr's stabilisation
                    (iii) appointingan intemal auditor to ensure the      Independent Monitoring Group.               programme
                        implementationof new financial
                        management proceduresat the ministry
                        level.
Debt management     Improve debt managementby                           Satisfactory implementationof debt            Improveddebt management
+                   (i) consolidating the managementof extemal             management strategy                          New regulatory framework
                        and domestic debt;                              Submit to Parliament revised legislation        in placeforpublic debt
                    (ii) Cabinet adoption of a mediumterm debt             acceptableto the Bank on govemment
                        strategy acceptableto the Bank.                    borrowing to improve control, transparency
                                                                           and accountability inthe contracting of
                                                                           public debt [December 20041

Public investment   Improve management of public investment by          Update rolling PSIP for FY04/05-FY06/07       Increasedproductivity of
                    (i) adopting athree-year PSP acceptableto the         using new procedures [June 20041              public investment
                        Bank;                                           Continue monthly and quarterly reportingon       75% PSIP implementation
                    (ii) newproceduresacceptabletothe
                         issuing                                          PSIP execution.                               rate
                        Bank for the planning and administration of                                                      Alignment of PSIP with
                        public investmentprojects that identify clear                                                   upcoming PRSP and
                        criteria for project selection and establish a                                                  corporate plans of line
                        Projects Supervisory Committee to oversee                                                       ministries
                        the process; and
                    (iii) publicizing the first quarterly report on the
                        execution of FY03/04 PSIP basedon
                        monthly reports of project expenditure from
                        line ministries.
Public sectorreform Prepare, adopt and beginimplementation of a         Satisfactory implementationof Public Sector   ore efficient and effective
                        MediumTerm Public Sector Reform                   Reform Strategy                             public service delivery
                        Strategy, acceptableto the Bank, for            tmplement first stage of downsizingprogram      5% reduction in public
                        achieving greatercost efficiency and              as per targets inthe Govemment's              sector wage bill by redacing
                        effectiveness of public service delivery          stabilisation programme. [June 20041          employmentfor FY04/05
                        focusing on :(i)  modemizingpublic sector
                        administration; (ii) strengthening
                        expenditure management, (iii)    enhancing the
                        enabling environment for private investment
                        and (iv) rationalizingsocial service delivery
                        and improving targeting.

Financial sector                                                        Development implementationplan and begin
                                                                          implementing Dominica-specific
                                                                          recommendationsfrom OECS FSAP




                                                                       38

    ReformArea              Key Prior Action for the ERSO                       FutureBenchmarks                                Outcomes
                                     December 2003                           January   - December    2004              8Performance .Measures

Sational Commercial Strengthenthe operationsof NCB through          Following completion andrecommendationsof          Improvements in financial
Bank                (i) establishingaMemorandumof                    OECS FSAP, preparea strategyfor further           conditionof NCB
                        Understandingbetween ECCB and NCB on         strengtheningandlor divestment of NCB             Harder budgetconstraintfor
                        actions to improvefinancialhealthof the                                                        public sector
                        bank, including time-bound benchmarks for                                                      8Reduce NCB exposureto the
                        reducingnon-performingloans;                                                                    public sector as a share of
                    (ii) repealingthe NCB Act and placingthe bank                                                       tier 1 capital and reserves
                        under the Companies Act to equalize its                                                         by 5percent.
                        treatment with that of privatecommercial                                                        NCB reduction of non
                        banks;                                                                                          performing loans by 3
                    (iii) reduction of Govt shareholdinginNCB                                                           percent of loans and
                        below 50% equity stakeanduse of a                                                               advances in 2004
                        significant share of the proceedsto reduce
                        public sector arrears to NCB and DSS; and
                    (iv) restructuringNCB Boardof Directors so
                        that the Govt cannot appoint morethanthree
                        of the seven members, nor the Chairman.
Cooperativessub-    Improvefinancial supervisionandregulation of    Adopt revisedcooperative regulationsto            Strongersupervisionand
sector                  the credit unions by:                         operationalize MoFPresponsibilityfor              improvedfinancial
                    (i) submittingto Parliament an amendment to       strongerfinancial supervisionof credit            conditionof credit unions
                        the CooperativesAct to assignresponsibility   unions [March20041                              8 Regulatory framework for
                        for supervisionand financial regulation of  Formulatean approachand timetable for joint         supervision of credit unions
                        credit unions to MoFP;                        MoFP/CooperativesDept/ECCB inspection              in place
                    (ii) completingajoint MoFP/Cooperatives           of credit unionsbasedon pilot inspectionof      8 Improvement in the
                        Dept/ ECCBinspection of the Roseau            RCCU [March20041                                  financial condition of most
                        CooperativeCredit Union (RCCU); and         Completejoint inspection of other credit             vulnerable credit unions
                    (iii) establishinga committeeand timetable for    unions [December20041
                        revisingcooperative regulations.            MoFPandCommissionerof Cooperativesto
                                                                      direct most vulnerablecredit unionsto take
                                                                      timely measuresto strengthentheir
                                                                      onerations
Agricultural                                                        Conduct a portfolio audit andevaluate             Stronger supervisionand
Industrial                                                            strategic options for AID Bank [June               improvedfinancial
DevelopmentBank                                                       20041.                                             condition of AID Bank.
                                                                    Adopt andimplement strategic options for             Strategic plan adopted by
                                                                      AID Bank [December20041                            Cabinet
                                                                                                                         Recommendationsof FSAP
                                                                                                                         implemented
Dominica Social     Govt to remain current on employer and          DSS to prepare and adopt mediumand long           Financialstability of the social
Security                employeecontributions to DSS which            term investment strategyfor managingDSS            security fund.
                        resumed on from July 2003                     assetswhich includes regional and                  5percent of asset in non-
                                                                      international diversification. [March20041         Dominica investments by
                                                                    Govt to remaincurrent on employer and                December 2004
                                                                      employeecontributionsto DSS.                       No new public sector
                                                                                                                         arrears to DSS
Petroleumpricing    Introducean new mechanismfor adjusting          Codify price adjustment mechanismsin              Market-basedpricingand
                        domesticpricesof petroleumproducts in        regulationsto the Supplies Control Act              increasedtransparencyin
                        line with intemationalprice movements,       [February 20041                                     pricing of petroleum
                        including regularpriceadjustments,a         Continue adjustingpetroleum prices in line           products
                        specific consumptiontax and uniform          with internationalpricemovements.                   Codification of new pricing
                        allowancesacross industryoperators.          [ongoing]                                           mechanism
                                                                    Completereview of new system, including              Continued implementation
                                                                     intransit and haulageallowances [January            ofwith new pricing
                                                                     20041                                               mechanism
                                                                    Work with CARICOM to reviewthe pricing of
                                                                     petroleumproductswithin the Community.
                                                                     [ongoing]

Port charges        Reducecargo handlingcharges at Dominica         Establishnew employment andpay scheme for         Reducedcost of doingbusiness
                        Port Authority by 25 percent.                cargo handlers [December 20041                      in Dominica
                                                                                                                         Reduction or removal of
                                                                                                                         additional surcharges
                                                                                                                         established by private
                                                                                                                         shipping linesfor services to
                                                                                                                         Dominica
Electricity reform                                                  Submit revisions to tariff formula in Electricity Greaterincentives for
                                                                     Supply Act to Parliament [January20041           efficiency inelectricity
                                                                    Submit fully revisedElectricity Supply Act to     regulatory framework
                                                                     Parliament [June 20041                               New performance- based
                                                                                                                          regulatoryframework in
                                                                                                                          place
                                                                   39

  public investment-inprivatecompanies.   privatesector
   [March20041                               Cabinet adoption ofpolicy
 Prepareandadopt aclear policy for the       on public enterprises and
  establishmentof public enterprisesand      criteriafor public
  public investmentinprivatecompanies.       investment in private
   [June20041                                companies
 Prepareprogramto implementpolicy for
  inclusion under the Medium Term Public
  Sector Reform Strategy. [June20041




40

                                   ANNEX 2. KEYECONOMIC         INDICATORS

                                                               Actod                          Projected
                      Indicator                   19%   1997   1998   1999   ZOO0  2001  2002   2003   2004
Nationalaccounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domesticproductd                              100   100     100   100    100   100   100     100   100
  Agriculture                                        20     19     19     19    18    18    19      18    19
  Industry                                           22     22    22     22     23    22    21      20    21
  Services                                           58     59    59     59     58    60    60      59    59

Total Consumption                                    83     77     80    85     88    97   103     100   102
Gross domestic fixed investment                      27     31     27    25     25    21    11      13    15
  Govemmentinvestment                                10      7      7     10    17    15     7       7      8
  Privateinvestment                                  18     25     19     15     8     6     4       6     7

E X P O ~ ~ S
           (GNFS)~                                   51     56     58    58     54    46    47      47    47
Imports (GNFS)                                       61     64     66    68     68    64    60      62    60

Gross domestic savings                               17     23     20     15     12    3     -3
Gross national savings'                              14     21     19     10     5     3     -4      -4  -0.5

Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                              236   244     259   268    269   262   252     253   261
 (US$million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas methodId               3,010  3,130  3,230  3,190  3,190 3,280 3,180

Real annualgrowthrates (%, calculatedfrom 1990
prices)
  Gross domesticproduct at factor cost              2.6     1.5   5.0    1.6    1.4  -4.2  -4.7    -1.0   1.o

Real annual per capita growthrates (%, calculated
from 1990prices)
  Gross domesticproductat factor cost               2.5     1.4   4.9    1.5    1.3  -4.2  -4.7    -1.0   1.o
  Total consumption                                 3.1   -5.7    10.0   6.8    4.0   3.3   0.9
  Privateconsumution                                3.5   -8.4    8.7    8.2    4.9   4.7   2.6

Balance of Payments (US$millions)
  Exports(GNFS)b                                    121    137    152    155    144   121   118    118    123
     MerchandiseFOB                                  53     54     63     56     55    44    43     40    41
  Imports(GNFS)~                                    145    I56    171    181    183   167   151    157   155
     MerchandiseFOB                                 100    104    116    122    130   115   101    106    106
  Resource balance                                  -24    -19    -20    -24    -39   -46   -33     -39   -32
  Net current transfers                              10     10     13     14     18    18    16      15    13
  Current accountbalance                            -32    -26    -23    -35    -53   -48   -37     -42   -40

  Net privateforeigndirect investment                18     21      7     18     11    12    13      13    13
  Long-termloans (net)                               -2    -10     -9     24     34    11     1       9   -11
    Official                                          4     -4      2     35     21    23    25      11   -10
   Private                                           -6     -7    -11    -11     12   -12   -24      -4    -2
  Other capital(net, incl. errors & omissions)       18     16     14     -7     -3     8    21      11     -_
  Change in reservese                                -2     -1     -4     -4      2     0   -13      -2    -2

Memorandum items
Resource balance(% of GDP)                         -10.0   -7.9   -7.2   10.5 -14.5 -17.6 -13.1   -15.4




                                                       41

Central government finance (as % of GDP at
market prices)'
 Currentrevenues(including grants)                     26.0     27.8  31.0  32.1 37.2 30.1 32.6 34.0 32.4
 Currentexpenditures                                   24.4     27.6  27.8  30.1 31.9 33.1 33.2 32.8 31.2
 Currentaccount surplus (+) or deficit (-)
(includinggrants)                                       1.6      0.2   3.2  2.0   5.3 -3.0 -0.6  1.1  1.2
 Capital expenditure and net lending                    8.6      7.6  13.2  13.4 16.6  5.7  5.1  7.0  7.0
 Foreignfinancing                                       5.6      3.8   4.7  12.1  5.9  3.7  6.6  4.2 -3.6


Monetary indicators
 M2/GDP                                                57.1     57.8  60.6  64.8 64.3 71.0 82.1 85.9
 Growth of M2 (%)                                       2.0      3.5  11.4  10.4  0.6  7.4  8.5  3.0
 Private sector credit growth                                            .. 2.4   8.2 -3.2 -1.4 -1.0  3.1



 Consumer price index (% change)                        2.0      2.2   1.5  0.0   1.1  1.9  0.5  2.5  1.5
 GDP deflator (% change)                                2.8       1.7  1.2  2.5   0.6  1.2 -0.4  1.5  1.5



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequitedtransfers excluding official capital grants.
d. 2002 representsGNI per capita (Atlas).
e. Imputedreserves at the ECCB. Includes use of IMFresources.
f. Fiscalyears e.g., 1996=FY96/97.




                                                           42

                                         ANNEX 3. DOMINICAAT A GLANCE

                                       Dominica at a dance                                                                      12/20/03



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 America      middle-
                                                        Dominica   & Carib.     income        Developmentdiamond*
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                              0 07       527        331
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US5)                                                                          Life expectancy
                                                            3,180    3,280        5,040
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              023     1,727        1,668

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                                  0 1       1 5        1 2
Labor force ("A)                                                        2 2         1 8     IGNI                                 Gross
                                                                                              per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                       ~

                                                                                              capita                          nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)              39
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                        72        76         75
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               77        71         73                            1
Infant mortality(per 1,000live biii`hs)                         18       27          19
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                                   9                       Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)             99        86         90
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15e)                               9       11           7




                                                  1982       1992     2001        2002        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billiuns)                                  0.07      0.19      0.26        0.25
Gross domesbc investmenVGDP                          31        30        21          11                          Trade
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                    41         52        56         53
Gross domesticsavinqslGDP                             3         16         3         -3
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                            17         16         3         -4

Current account balancelGDP                        -11         -13      -18         -15
Externaldebt interestpayments/GDP                     1          1         6          8
ExternaldebVGDP                                     28         50        71          84
Externaldebt service/exportsGNFS                      2          5       11          12

                                       1982-92 1992-02       2001     2002      2003-07                       Indebtedness

(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                       4 4       1 2       -42       -4 7        1 2           -Dominica
GDP per capita                            4 8       1 0       -42       -47         1 2
Exportsof qoods and services              8 1       1.1      -17.3      -2 0        1.3


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982       1992     2001        2002       1Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
("A of GDP)                                                                                                                             1
Agriculture                                         30         22        18          19
Industry                                            20         20        22         21
   Manufacturing                                      8          8         7          8
Services                                            49         57        60          60
Private consumption                                 73         64        75          81
Generalgovernment consumption                       25         20        22         22
imports of goods and services                       70         65        64         60      I                  GDI     +GDP             I

                                               1982-92 1992-02        2001        2002     1
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                         Growth ofexports and imports (%)          c
Agriculture                                        2.1        -2.0     -6.6        -0.7
Industry                                           6.5         1.4     -5.2       -10.3
   Manufacturing                                   5.4        -0.1   -14.0         -0.4
Services                                           4.8        2.3      -3.3        -4.0              97     98     9
Privateconsumption                                 3.4        2.9       4.7         2.6
General government consumption                     2.2        2.2      -1.3        -5.2
Gross domestic investment                          6.0        -4.8   -25.4        -52.1
Importsof goods and services                       5.8         1.4   -11.6        -12.1


Note: 2002data are preliminary estimates
`The diamonds show four key indicatorsinthe country (in bold)comparedwith its Income-groupaverage.If data are missing,the diamond will
    be incomplete.


                                                                  43

                                                                                                      Dominica

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1982  1992  2001   2002
Domesticprices                                                     Inflation(%)                                    1
(% change)
Consumer prices                          4.2   4.3    1.9   0.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                     4.5   4.1    1.2  -0.4

Governmentfinance (fiscalyear)
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                    1
Current revenue                               28.1  30.1   32.6             97    98      9-9      00    01       %I
Current budget balance                         2.4   -3.0   0.6
Overall surplus/deficit                       -6.6   -8.6  -5.5             --GDP      deflator  h C P I           I
TRADE
                                        1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            55     44    43                                                     II
                                                                 1160 T
 Bananas                                       31      8      8
 Other Agricultural Exports                      6     6      6
 Manufactures                                   18    30    28
Total imports (cif)                            93    131    115
 Food                                           19    26
 Fueland energy                                  6     13
 Capital goods                                        34

Exportprice index (1995=100)                    93    78     74          96    97    98      99    00    01

Importprice index (1995=100)                    89   100     92                    Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      104    78     80

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                    [Current account balanceto GDP (%)
                                                                  I
Exportsof goods and services             32    100   121    118
Importsof goods and sewices               50   125   167    151
Resourcebalance                          -18   -25    -46   -33

Net income                                 0    -7    -19   -20
Net currenttransfers                      10     7     18    16

Currentaccount balance                    -8   -25    -48   -37

Financingitems (net)                       6    27     50    48
Changes in net reserves                    2    -3     -2   -13

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      -4    20     30    44
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocal/US$)          2.7   2.7    2.7   2.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                      :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       21    96   170    194
  IBRD                                     0     0      3     3
  IDA                                      0    11     14    17                  G:26   A:3     B:17.

Total debt service                         1     6     16    11
  IBRD                                     0     0      0     0
  IDA                                      0     0      0     0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                          6     6     10     8
  Official creditors                       8     6     14     5
  Privatecreditors                         0     0     12     2
  Foreigndirect investment                 0    20     12    13
  Portfolioequity                          0     0      0                         E: 39
World Bank program
  Commitments                              5     0      0     2     \  IBRD                           E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                            0     0      1     3     I IDA
                                                                     --        D Other multilateral
                                                                                 -                    F Private
  Principalrepayments                      0     0      0     0     :.IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                       --
  Net flows                                0     0      1     2
  Interestpayments                         0     0      0     0
  Net transfers                            0     0      1     2


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                        12/20/03




                                                  44

                     ANNEX 4.    TIMETABLEOF KEYPROCESSINGEVENTS



Time taken to Prepare:                          13 months
(Identification to Negotiations)

Prepared by:                                   Government and World Bank Staff

Identification Mission Departure:              November 11,2002

Management Review Meeting:                     January 13,2003

Pre-appraisal:                                 September 14-17,2003

Regional Operations Committee:                 October 2,2003

Appraisal:                                     October 13-17,2003

Negotiations:                                  December 24,2003

BoardPresentation:                             January 29,2004

Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  February 7,2004

Closing Date:                                   June 30,2004




                                           45

                        ANNEX 5. INTERNATIONAL      MONETARY     FUND


                                                                                  EXTERNAL
                                                                                  RELATIONS
                                                                                  DEPARTMENT



Press Release No. 03/228                                        International Monetary Fund
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                                            Washington, D.C. 20431 USA
December 22,2003

       IMFApprovesInPrincipleUS$11.4 MillionPRGFArrangementfor Dominica

The Executive Board of the InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) has approved a three-year SDR
7.7 million (about US$11.4 million) credit for Dominica under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement. The decision approving the arrangement will become
effective on December 29,2003, provided that as of that date the Word Bank has concludedthat
Dominica's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) provides a sound basis for the
development of a fully participatory PRSP. The effectiveness of the decision will enable the
release of SDR 2.4 million (about US$3.5 million) for Dominica under the PRGFarrangement.

The IMFExecutive Board today also completed the second and final review o f Dominica's one-
year SDR 3.3 million (about US$4.9 million) Stand-By Arrangement, which had been approved
on August 28, 2002 (see Press Release No. 02/37). The completion of this review entitles
Dominica to the release of SDR 307,500 (about US$450,000), bringingtotal disbursements
under the Stand-By Arrangement to SDR 2.97 million (about US$4.4 million). The Executive
Board also noted Dominica's intention to cancel the Stand-By Arrangement as of January 2,
2004.

The PRGFi s the IMF'sconcessional facility for low-income countries. PRGF-supported
programs are based on country-owned poverty reduction strategies adopted ina participatory
process involving civil society and development partners, and articulated ina Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). This i s intendedto ensure that PRGF-supported programs are consistent
with a comprehensive framework for macroeconomic, structural, and social policies to foster
growth and reduce poverty. PRGF loans carry an annual interest rate of 0.5 percent and are
repayable over 10 years with a 5 M-year grace period on principal payments.

Followingthe Executive Board's discussion on December 19, 2003 for Dominica, Agustin
Carstens, Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chairman, said:

"The recent performance by the Dominican authorities under the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
has been encouraging. Policy implementation strengthened considerably, reflecting steps taken
earlier this year to control government spending. The structural benchmarks for September,
October, and November 2003, as well as all performance criteria for end-July and end-
September 2003, were observed. In addition, the authorities have prepared their debt strategy and
elaborated a comprehensive medium-term economic program designed to reestablish growth and
reduce unemployment-related poverty. These actions evidenced the firm commitment of the
government to achieving the objectives set out inthe SBA.



                                              46

"The authorities are now preparedto embark on the second stage of their economic strategy,
during which they will implement an ambitious fiscal program, combined with their debt strategy
and a comprehensive structural reform agenda, with the support of an arrangement under the
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.

"During the first year and ahalf of the PRGFarrangement, the primaryfiscal balance is
projected to improve steadily. The adjustment will place greater emphasis on expenditure cuts,
with key expenditure measuresincluding a continuation of the freeze on all other non-interest
current expenditures inthe budget for FY2004/05, as well as a 5 percent reduction inthe central
government wage billthrough the implementation of a comprehensive civil service reform.

"During the remainder of the PRGF arrangement, the primaryfiscal surplusis targeted to reach 3
percent of GDP.Additional fiscal adjustment measuresto achieve this goal will include
expenditure moderation and a second round of public sector retrenchment during FY2005/06
designed to reduce the size of the public sector wage bill, as well as measures to broaden the tax
base and enhance the efficiency of tax collections.

"A large residual financing gap will still remain over the mediumterm, which is expected to be
covered by debt restructuring. However, determined efforts toward fiscal consolidation
supported by reforms to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy will
continue to be essential for achieving debt sustainability and preventing the reemergence of a
debt problem.

"The authorities plan to focus their structural reform agenda on four main areas, namely:

0   Implementation of the debt strategy, which i s critical to securing financing for the program;

0   Fiscal reform, including civil service reform, tax reform, pensionreform, and improved
       budgetary procedures;

0   Financial sector strengthening and

0   Other reforms to improve the investment climate, enhance competitiveness, and diversify the
       economy.

"These structural reforms will be implementedinline with the authorities' poverty reduction
strategy, as articulated inthe authorities' InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, with a view
to preserving essential social safety nets and reducingemployment-related poverty," Mr.
Carstens stated.




                                                47

Recent economic developments

Dominica's economic situation remains difficult, but there are signs of a modest recovery in
manufacturing and tourism inthe secondquarter of this year, partly offsetting the continued
deterioration in the banana sector. For the thirdquarter, tax collections have rebounded and
imports are beginning to expand due to a surge in construction. However, exports continue to
shrink,mostly on account of low bananaproduction. GDPis expected to fall by 1percent in
2003.

Programsummary

The economic program supported by the PRGFarrangement envisages a return to growth by
addressing the country's debt overhang and structural weaknesses. The program aims at boosting
growth to an annual average of 2 percent, while preserving price stability. Growth i s expected to
reboundfrom negative 1percent in 2003 to 1percent in2004, and to 2 percent thereafter. The
program will also aim to significantly reduce the large current account deficit, mostly through
improvements incompetitiveness.

Consistent with a reduced level of debt, fiscal policy will be strengthened significantly over the
medium term to reach a primary surplus of 3 percent of GDP. Achievement of this target will
require the adoption of fiscal measures of about 5 percent o f GDP inthe next three years, given
that the primarybalance in 2003/04 i s now projectedto record a deficit of about 2 percent of
GDP. The authorities indicated that the fiscal program would be designed to still preserve public
investment at the historical average ratio of 7 percent of GDP.

The structural reform agenda seeks to removekey obstacles to growth, including the economic
uncertainty stemming from weak public finances. The structural agenda covers four main areas:
(i) strategy,toeliminatethedebtoverhangandcreatetheconditionsforgrowth;(ii)
   debt                                                                                      fiscal
reform, which includes public sector reform, tax reform, pension reform and improved budgetary
procedures; (iii) financial sector strengthening, to ensure an efficient functioning of financial
intermediation; and (iv) other reforms to strengthen the investment climate, improve
competitiveness and deregulate the economy.

Dominicajoined the IMFon December 12, 1978, and its current quota i s SDR 8.2 milli,on (about
US$12.1 million). Its outstanding use of IMFcredit currently totals SDR 2.67 million (about
US$3.9 million).




                                               48

                     ANNEX 6.   STATUS OF WORLDBANKOPERATIONS



                    Dominica:IBRDandIDA Operationsas of November 30,2003

 Financier              Proiect              Amount        Disbursed     Approval Date ClosingDate
IBRD      OECSWASTE MGMNT (SIM)                         0               0 4-May-95     28-Feb-02
IBRD      OECSWASTE MGMNT (SIM)               600,000.00                0 4-May-95     28-Feb-02
IBRD      DM- BASIC EDUCATIONREF            3,070,000.00   2,853,908.00   21-Dec-95    31-Dec-01
IBRD      OECS: TELECOM REFORM                600,000.00      112,103.00   4-Jun-98    31-Dec-03
IBRD      DOMINICA DISASTERMANAGEMENT       2,530,000.00    1,085,319.00  10-Dec-98    31-Dec-02
IBRD      DOMINICA-EMERGENCYRECOVERY P        960,000.00      256,159.00  7-Mar-02     30-Jun-05
IDA       ROADMAINTENANCE & R               5,000,000.00   4,436,808.00    1-Apr-82    30-Jun-88
IDA       POWER                             3,000,000.00   3,257,052.00   31-Mar-87    31-Dec-95
IDA       SAC I                             3,000,000.00   2,184,410.00    9-Jun-87    30-Jun-92
IDA       OECS WASTE MGMNT (SIM)              600,000.00      470,851.OO  4-May-95     28-Feb-02
IDA       DM- BASICEDUCATIONREF             3,070,000.00   2,866,004.00   21-Dec-95    31-Dec-01
IDA       OECS: TELECOM REFORM                600,000.00      420,196.00   4-Jun-98    31-Dec-03
IDA       DOMINICA DISASTERMANAGEMENT       2,500,000.00    1,524,107.00  10-Dec-98    31-Dec-02
IDA       DOMINICA- EMERGENCYRECOVERY P     2,240,000.00    1,204,837.00  7-Mar-02     30-Jun-05

          TOTAL                             27,770,000.00 20,67 1,754.00




                                          49


