                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 30983

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-38510)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.1 MILLION (US$ 3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                             COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA

                                         FOR AN

                      ECONOMIC RECOVERY SUPPORT OPERATION




                                     December 28, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department (LCSPR)
Caribbean Country Management Unit (LCC3C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar EC$
                                             2.67 = US$ 1.00
                                        US$ 0.37 = EC$ 1.00

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 to  June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AID      Agricultural Industrial Development Bank
CARICOM  Caribbean Community
CARTAC   Caribbean Regional Technical Assistance Center
CDB      Caribbean Development Bank
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
DFID     UK Department for International Development
DOMLEC   Dominica Electricity Services, Ltd.
DSS      Dominica Social Security
ECCB     Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
ECCU     Eastern Caribbean Currency Union
ECEMP    Eastern Caribbean Economic Management Project (CIDA)
EU       European Union
FAA      Finance Administration Act
FATF     Financial Action Task Force (OECD)
FERP     Fiscal and Economic Recovery Project (DFID)
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
GOCD     Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica
GSPSP    Growth and Social Protection Strategy Paper
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MoFP     Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MTPSRS   Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy
NCB      National Commercial Bank
NBD      National Bank of Dominica
NPL      Non Performing Loan
OECS     Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PSIP     Public Sector Investment Program
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

RCCU     Roseau Cooperative Credit Union
SBA      Stand-By Arrangement
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIGFIS   Standardized Integrated Government Financial Information System



                                 Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                               Country Director      Caroline Anstey
                                Sector Manager       Mauricio Carrizosa
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Camille Nuamah

                            COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                            Economic Recovery Support Operation


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed during ICR Mission                          39

Project ID: P078841                                                  Project Name: Dominica Economic Recovery Support
                                                                     Operation
Team Leader: Camille Lampart Nuamah                                  TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Dominica Economic Recovery Support Operation L/C/TF Number: IDA-38510
   Country/Department: DOMINICA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (60%); Banking (13%); Oil and
                            gas (10%); Ports, waterways and shipping (10%); Micro- and SME
                            finance (7%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Debt management and
                            fiscal substainability (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/13/2003                                     Effective: 02/07/2004                02/07/2004
     Appraisal: 10/02/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 01/29/2004                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Commonwealth of Dominica/ Ministry of Finance and Planning
                      Other Partners:      Public Sector Reform Management Unit; Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and
                                           Marketing; Ministry of Communications, Works and Housing; Dominica Port
                                           Authority; National Commercial Bank; Dominica Social Security; Agricultural
                                           Industrial Development Bank; Ministry of Community Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline Anstey                                Caroline Anstey
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Camille Nuamah                                 Camille Nuamah
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Westebbe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S

                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background

Dominica is a small island economy with a population of some 71,000 people and a per capita income of
US$3,340 based primarily on agriculture producing mainly bananas for export supplemented by small
manufacturing and tourism sectors. Economic performance during the 1980s was good with annual
average growth rates of GDP of 4.6 percent supported by a preferential trade regime and a favorable real
exchange rate. A sharp slowdown in growth occurred in the 1990s. The delay in fiscal adjustment
following such economic slowdown combined with a lack of expenditure control and a rise in commercial
borrowing for largely unproductive public investments led to a significant increase in public sector debt to
95 percent of GDP by 2001, an increase in the government deficit equal to 11 percent of GDP by
FY2000-01 and the accumulation of internal and external arrears.

In 2002, the Government realized that an economic stabilization program was urgently needed to deal with
the fiscal crisis and that a structural reform program would be required to support a resumption of growth
and a restoration of competitiveness. In parallel with an IMF-supported Standby Arrangement (SBA), a
structural adjustment operation was requested from the World Bank in 2003. That same year, the
authorities also prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP, shared with the Board on
December 11, 2003) which outlined the key elements and targets for the stabilization and recovery program
and which informed the design of the Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO). Implementation
under the SBA was on track in December 2003, at which time the SBA was followed by a three-year
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) which has remained on track since. The key elements of
the macroeconomic program were a comprehensive debt restructuring exercise aimed to reduce debt levels
to a sustainable level and the adoption of fiscal measures of around 5 percent of GDP over the next three
years.

Original Objectives

The credit supported the first stage of a continuous multi-year effort to strengthen fiscal and debt
sustainability and resume economic growth through improved competitiveness. Specifically, the ERSO
supported the Government's immediate objectives of: (a) restoring fiscal balance, by promoting actions to
improve financial and debt management, reinforce the Government's budget constraint and achieve
sustainable expenditure reductions through public sector reform; and (b) encouraging a resumption of
growth by supporting actions to strengthen the financial sector, increase the productivity of public
investment, and improve the climate for private investment. Critical actions and reforms aimed at
underpinning and restoring macroeconomic stability and growth were all met before Board presentation.
Following disbursement of the credit, the Government continued to implement follow-up actions and
reforms in the areas supported by the ERSO as detailed below. In addition, the authorities worked with the
World Bank and other development partners to formulate and begin implementation of a medium term
program of reforms to address the economy's remaining structural challenges. These will be included in
the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which is currently under preparation and is
expected to be completed by the Government in early 2005. Progress on the outcome of the credit's prior
actions and follow-up reforms, as well as the formulation of a medium term structural reform agenda, has
been monitored and supported with technical assistance from the World Bank following the disbursement




                                                     - 2 -

of the credit.

The ERSO was fully consistent with the broad objectives of the FY2002-06 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for the Eastern Caribbean States (discussed by the Board in June 2001) to: (i) reduce vulnerability
and income insecurity; and (ii) strengthen human and institutional capacity. At the time of the CAS, no
adjustment lending was contemplated and the strategy emphasized sub-regional rather than individual
country programs. This is because the need for adjustment lending was not present at the time of the CAS,
as Dominica had not entered the deep recession and fiscal and external balances were broadly acceptable,
and there was general reluctance among Governments in the sub-region to undertake Fund-supported
macroeconomic programs. Major external shocks since the CAS Board discussion ­ including the events of
September 11, 2001, and the subsequent global economic slowdown and drastic fall in tourism ­ worsened
growth performances and fiscal balances throughout the Eastern Caribbean sub-region. The impact of
these external shocks has been particularly severe for Dominica given its limited natural resources and less
diversified economy, and it has so far been the only Eastern Caribbean country to request a disbursing IMF
stabilization program. Moreover, the individual difficulties of one country, like Dominica, could pose a
threat to the sub-regional currency board arrangement if the fiscal crisis spills over into the financial sector.

Despite its emphasis on sub-regional approaches, the CAS does allow for single country operations which
address a specific problem in one country that could be scaled up or replicated in other countries. Given
the fiscal deterioration across the OECS countries, it is possible that in the future other OECS countries
may also opt for an IMF-supported stabilization program and request assistance from the World Bank in
the form of adjustment lending. Successful adjustment in Dominica is expected to provide an important
demonstration for the other countries in the sub-region, especially in the area of public sector reform. In
fact, given the similarities across the OECS, this operation yielded important learning benefits for the Bank
and its clients that can be applied to subsequent operations in the region.

The credit was prepared in the context of strong international cooperation and in close collaboration with
the IMF and other donors. It benefited from the broad dialogue on stabilization and structural reform
measures that took place in the country in 2003. It built on an extensive amount of economic and sector
work conducted by the Bank and other donors.

The ERSO was a single US$3 million credit ­ a departure from the standard practice of offering Dominica
a blend of 50 percent IDA and 50 percent IBRD terms, under the small island economies exception. "An
exception to the GNI per capita operational cutoff for IDA eligibility ($865 for FY04) has been made for
some small island economies, which otherwise would have little or no access to Bank Group assistance
because they lack creditworthiness. For such countries, IDA funding is considered case by case for the
financing of projects and adjustment programs designed to strengthen creditworthiness." (Operational
Manual, OP 3.10 Annex D, Footnote 10). Instead, a 100 percent IDA credit was offered to Dominica on a
one-time exceptional basis, due to the fact that, given the difficult debt situation and the imminent debt
restructuring exercise, the country was not eligible for IBRD lending. In exceptional circumstances, IDA
extends eligibility temporarily to countries that are above the operational cutoff and are undertaking major
adjustment efforts but are not creditworthy for IBRD lending. It is envisaged that Dominica's debt
restructuring exercise and fiscal adjustment will effectively lower the debt-to-GDP ratio and restore the
country's access to IBRD lending in line with its blend status. It is therefore expected that operations for
Dominica following this credit will be on standard blend terms.

The option of doing a single tranche operation versus programmatic lending was discussed at length during
the concept meeting. The single tranche option was decided upon as the ERSO was regarded as supporting
policy reform during an interim period after which the authorities would develop a medium-term program


                                                      - 3 -

in the form of a PRSP which could be supported later by annual Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits
(PRSCs) (see para. 14 of the Program Document for more details on the choice of the single tranche
instrument).


3.2 Revised Objective:
Credit objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
Overall Assessment

The ERSO represented a carefully balanced set of reforms designed to, first, achieve stabilization of the
country's finances while, second, preparing structural reforms to restore growth and competitiveness over
the medium term. The credit provided urgently needed budget support to finance continued key public
service delivery and thus protect past social gains while the Government of Dominica corrected an
unsustainable fiscal position, implemented measures to create a stable macroeconomic platform essential to
achieving a resumption of economic growth, and developed a broad structural reform agenda for the
medium term. The credit was crucial and timely. In late 2003, Dominica faced not only a difficult
socio-political situation following a prolonged and deep recession which limited the space for reforms, but
also a severe cash shortage, and outstanding domestic and external arrears. Since June 2003, the
authorities have shown strong commitment to the reform program by implementing politically challenging
measures under difficult social conditions. As such, the overall assessment of this operation is satisfactory.

Original Components

As discussed above, the credit components included specific actions and a follow-up program of
commitments in the following areas:

    l financial management;
    l debt management;
    l public investment;
    l public sector reform;
    l financial sector reform;
    l petroleum pricing, port charges and electricity sector reform.


Prior to Board approval Dominica satisfactorily implemented the following key actions:

 i. maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as demonstrated by the continued implementation
     of the Government stabilization program supported, inter alia, by the IMF PRGF;

ii. improved financial management by establishing cash and commitment management system to enforce
     commitment limits monthly, reducing numbers of government bank accounts, and appointing an
     internal auditor to ensure the implementation of the new financial management procedures at the
     ministry level;

iii. improved debt management by consolidating external and internal debt management and adopting a
     medium term comprehensive debt strategy;

iv. improved planning and execution of public investment on the basis of a three year Public Sector
     Investment Program (PSIP) and publicizing the first quarter report on the execution of the FY03-04



                                                     - 4 -

      PSIP, issuing new procedures for the planning and execution of public investment projects including
      clear criteria for project selection and establishing a Projects Supervisory Committee to oversee the
      process;

  v. prepared and started implementing a medium term Public Sector Reform Strategy for achieving greater
      cost efficiency and effectiveness of public service delivery;

 vi. strengthened the operations of the National Commercial Bank (NCB) through: (i) establishing a
      Memorandum of Understanding between Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and NCB on
      actions to improve financial health of the bank; (ii) reduction of Government's shareholding in NCB
      below 50 percent and using a significant share of the proceeds to reduce public sector arrears to NCB;
      (iii) restructuring NCB Board of Directors; and (iv) repealing the NCB Act and placing the bank under
      the Companies Act to equalize its treatment with that of private commercial banks;

vii. improved financial supervision and regulation of the credit union sector by: (i) submitting to Parliament
      an amendment to the Cooperatives Act to assign responsibility for supervision and financial regulation
      of credit unions to Ministry of Finance and Planning (MoFP); (ii) completing a joint MoFP/ECCB/
      Cooperatives Department inspection of the Roseau Cooperative Credit Union (RCCU); and (iii)
      establishing a committee and timetable for revising cooperative regulations to operationalize MoFP role
      in financial regulation and supervision of credit unions.

viii. remained current on employer and employee contributions to Dominica Social Security (DSS) from
      July 2003.

 ix. introduced a new mechanism for adjusting domestic prices of petroleum products in line with
      international price movements.

 x. reduced cargo handling charges at Dominica Port Authority by at least 25 percent.


 Specific follow-up measures/benchmarks in the areas supported by the credit were identified with the
 Government during the design of the operation and these are listed in Annex 1. As detailed below, even
 after the disbursement of this single tranche credit, the Government continued to make overall satisfactory
 progress on these areas as well as in the definition and implementation of a medium-term reform strategy.

 3.4 Revised Components:
 Credit components remain unchanged.

 3.5 Quality at Entry:
 This operation was not selected for assessment at entry in the Quality Assessment Group (QAG). The ICR
 concludes that quality at entry was satisfactory. The credit's objectives were consistent with both the
 Government's goals and the Bank's CAS. The credit's objectives were also closely coordinated with the
 donors' programs of financial and technical assistance to Dominica. The design of the credit clearly
 incorporated lessons learned from the Bank's previous experience in Dominica. Through its single tranche
 design, the operation also provided the authorities with the flexibility to focus on critical priority actions
 while it developed a broad structural reform agenda for the medium term (under a PRSP) that could be
 supported by the Bank under a possible follow-up PRSC.




                                                         - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Based on the supervision mission of May 2004 and the ICR mission of September 2004, overall progress
on achieving development outcomes is considered satisfactory. The authorities' implementation of the
stabilization program and the structural reforms supported by the ERSO is beginning to yield visible
results. While progress remains fragile and the risks are high, as the Program Document recognized, these
risks are balanced by the authorities' demonstrated strong commitment to consolidate the reforms
implemented and launch additional measures to tackle remaining challenges.

The overall reform program continues to be vulnerable to public sector capacity limitations, possible
external shocks and the success of continuing efforts to bring public spending in line with resource
availability over the medium term. The first two risks are typical of small state contexts which are
characterized by significant vulnerability to external (natural and economic) shocks and weak capacity.
These risks are however offset by the strong Government commitment to reform which is mentioned above.
It is of particular importance that progress be made in reducing poverty given the sensitivity of the reform
program to potential opposition. A strong and successful effort was made in 2003 and 2004 to obtain a
consensus for reform. The forthcoming election in 2005 will test the depth of popular support for the
reform program. The availability of donor assistance, both technical and financial, during the transition is
seen as particularly instrumental.


4.2 Outputs by components:
As indicated above, following the structure of the ERSO as a single-tranche adjustment lending operation,
all actions were completed prior to Board presentation. Additional details on these actions are provided
below and in Annex 1. Even after the disbursement of this single tranche credit, the Government continued
to make overall satisfactory progress in the areas supported by the loan as well as in the definition and
implementation of a medium-term reform strategy.

The discussion of the achievements under the main components of the reform program supported by the
ERSO is organized around the following headings: (i) macroeconomic adjustment and fiscal consolidation;
(ii) public expenditure management, including financial management; public investment; debt management;
and public sector reform; (iii) financial sector reform; (iv) improving the climate for private investment;
and (v) defining and starting implemention of a medium-term reform agenda.

Macroeconomic Adjustment and Fiscal Consolidation

At the time of the credit's Board presentation and single tranche disbursement, Dominica had a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF through a three-year PRGF. Following an economic
contraction of almost 10 percent during 2001-02, end of 2003 data showed a modest economic recovery,
inflation was under control and all performance criteria under the PRGF-supported program for
end-December 2003 were observed. In particular, the overall fiscal target was met with large margins (the
overall fiscal position was roughly in balance in the second half of 2003). Approval of the PRGF and the
ERSO also catalyzed significant external resources, including from the European Union (EU) and the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).




                                                      - 6 -

Since disbursement of the credit, Dominica has continued to make significant progress at macroeconomic
adjustment and fiscal consolidation. Real GDP is estimated to have increased by 2 percent in 2004 on the
back of strong performance by the banana sector, in manufacturing and construction, and resumed market
confidence. Strong tourism receipts helped strengthen the external position and credit to the private sector
is growing again following several years of contraction. Annual inflation declined to 1.5 percent in August
2004 from 2.9 percent at end-2003.

With resolute implementation of the stabilization program, the fiscal position has strengthened
considerably. In 2004, savings were realized above programmed amounts on account of a strong revenue
performance and expenditures were kept under tight control. The primary fiscal balance (including grants)
rose from ­1.6 percent of GDP in FY2002-03 to 5.6 percent in FY2003-04, exceeding the 1.7 percent
target. The Government is also on track to achieve a primary fiscal balance of 3.3 percent of GDP in
FY2004-05, exceeding the 2.0 percent target. The overall fiscal balance improved from ­5.4 percent of
GDP in FY2002-03 to ­1.3 percent in FY2003-04, significantly exceeding its ­4.2 target. Similarly for the
FY2004-05 overall fiscal balance which is projected to reach ­2.6 percent of GDP (compared to ­4.3
percent target). With respect to revenues, the authorities held the line on the granting of discretionary tax
exemptions and in June 2004 carried out a detailed review of statutory tax exemptions with a view to
assessing their justification and preventing abuses. The authorities are also tightening up the administrative
requirements for obtaining tax exemptions and are making the process transparent by requiring foregone
revenues to be calculated and published. In addition, the Cabinet approved, ahead of schedule, key
parameters for the introduction of a Value Added Tax planned for 2005. A draft VAT law has been
prepared and will be submitted to Parliament in January 2005 with a view to introducing it with the budget
for FY2005-06. A public information campaign is also underway to prepare the public and the private
sector to its introduction.

With respect to expenditures, the authorities kept vacated positions in the civil service unfilled, while
preparing for a medium term public sector reform program whose major measures are currently being
implemented. Domestic arrears continued to decline gradually as did the exposure of the National
Commercial Bank to the public sector. The Government remained current on its social security obligations
and external debt service. The IMF-supported PRGF program remains on track with the third program
review scheduled for IMF Board discussion in December 2004. The authorities continue to strengthen their
fiscal policy for FY2004-05. The FY2004-05 budget contained fiscal measures equivalent to 2.5 percent
of GDP that are being implemented, including a reduction in the wage bill by 5 percent through
retrenchment. Having already accelerated the achievement of the medium-term primary surplus, the
authorities intend to save revenues in excess of programmed amounts to reduce public sector debt.




                                                     - 7 -

                                    Table 1. Dominica: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators


                                                                        2000    2001    2002    2003   2004*
                                   (Annual percentage change, unless otherwise specified)
      Output and prices
      Real GDP (factor cost)                                              1.4    -4.2    -4.7     0.0     2.0
      Consumer prices (end of period)                                     1.1     1.9     0.5     2.9     1.5


      Balance of payments
      Merchandise exports, f.o.b.                                        -2.3   -18.9    -3.7    -7.2     8.9
      Merchandise imports, f.o.b.                                         7.3   -11.6   -12.1    10.0     8.1
      Real effective exchange rate (e.o.p. depreciation)                  4.8     3.7    -6.4    -6.7      ...


      Investments (percent of GDP)
      Public investment                                                  16.7    15.3     5.6     7.8    11.6
      Private investment                                                  8.1     5.9     4.0     7.0     7.0


      External public debt service (as a share of exports of goods and nonfactor services)
      Amortization                                                        3.1     4.5     4.9    11.9    13.0
      Interest                                                            4.3     6.4     7.5     6.3     6.2


      Monetary System
      Net credit to the non-financial public sector                       5.7     5.6    -7.0    -4.1    -5.5


      Central Government Finances (percent of GDP)                    2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05
      Current revenue                                                    27.8    28.4     28     31.2    30.0
      Current expenditure                                                31.9    33.1    33.1    31.4    30.2
      Primary balance                                                    -3.3    -2.1    -1.6     5.6     3.3
      Overall balance                                                   -10.9    -8.6    -5.4    -1.3    -2.6
      Source: Dominican authorities; Eastern Caribbean Central Bank;
      and IMF staff estimates.   Note: * = Estimated.




Achievements of the objective of restoring macroeconomic stability and achieving fiscal sustainability are
rated satisfactory.


Improving Public Expenditure Management

The ERSO supported measures to improve public expenditure management in the areas of financial and
debt management, public investment and public sector reform.

Financial Management. A key immediate challenge for the Dominican Government in their effort to
regain fiscal sustainability was to tighten controls over spending and to halt and reverse the accumulation



                                                                 - 8 -

of domestic and external arrears. Prior to the presentation of the credit to the Board, the authorities had put
in place critical elements for a strengthened system of cash management and expenditure control, including:
the introduction of a cash and commitment management system that adjusts line ministry expenditure
allocations and enforces commitment limits on a monthly basis in line with resource availability; the
reduction in the number of government bank accounts that tend to circumvent expenditure and funds
controls and the issuance of explicit terms and conditions for the operation of the remaining accounts; and
appointment of an internal auditor to ensure the implementation of new financial management procedures at
the ministry level.

Progress on financial management reform has continued since the disbursement of the credit, although at a
slower than expected pace due to capacity constraints. There was continued progress in implementing cash
and commitment management reforms. A new financial management information system (SIGFIS) was
rolled out to remaining line ministries and agencies, cash and commitment limits are issued (and adjusted)
on a regular basis to line ministries on the basis of projected resource availability, and there is clear
evidence of increased discipline and expenditure control by line ministries. Reporting by the line ministries
and presentation of regular feedback to Independent Monitoring Group comprising civil society and private
sector representatives are also on track. Nevertheless, the supervision mission reported weakness in the
accounting function. The new SIGFIS system has yet to result in expected improvements in financial
reporting. There continues to be weak accountability regarding government accounts. Limited progress
was made on the preparation of a cash management manual as a result of delayed reorganization and
strengthening of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the authorities decided to postpone the preparation of
a new Finance (Administration) Act (FSS) until additional progress is made to strengthen the financial
management system. The authorities discovered that, after closing a number of bank accounts as agreed
under the Credit, the earlier census of the accounts was incomplete. Recent experience has also shown the
need for further strengthening of the role of the new internal auditor. The Government is working to
address the weaknesses identified above for which they are receiving technical assistance from several
donors. In addition, they are preparing amendments to the existing Finance Administration Act which will
put in place fiscal responsibility rules to guide the preparation of future budgets. It is expected that these
will be enacted in 2005.

Achievement of the financial management objective is rated as unsatisfactory.

Public Investment Management. The public sector investment program (PSIP) was one of the critical
areas for restoring control of public sector spending. Capital investment has fluctuated widely in recent
years along with sectoral allocations and sources of financing. The weaknesses concerned political
interference, inadequate project selection and weak donor coordination, as well as poor financing
instrument choices.

Prior to the presentation of the credit to the Board, the Government had introduced a three-year rolling
public investment plan; issued new procedures for planning and administration of public investment
projects with clear criteria for selection and evaluation; established a Projects Supervisory Committee to
oversee the process; and produced its first quarterly report on results, all with the aim of tightening up the
program. The aim is to increase the execution rate of the public investment program and to align the PSIP
with the forthcoming PRSP. Prior to Board approval the implementation rate of the FY2003/04 PSIP was
already up substantially over the year before. This continued throughout the fiscal year even though
additional resources became available from the People's Republic of China mid year. The authorities
continue to regularly review the PSIP execution progress and to rationalize it with the emerging growth
strategy focusing on tourism.



                                                       - 9 -

Achievement of the objective of improving the management of the public investment program is rated
satisfactory.

Debt Management. Debt restructuring and improved debt management were a critical priority for
achieving financial stabilization and sustainable growth in Dominica. The Government's program included
the implementation of a comprehensive debt restructuring exercise with its creditors as well as
consolidating the management of the domestic and external debt, and strengthening debt legislation. The
doubling of the debt stock between FY1998-99 and FY2002-03 as a percentage of GDP was largely due to
the build up of external debt. As of mid 2003, traditional bilateral and multilateral loans accounted for 65
percent of the external debt stock. Public debt service imposed a heavy burden on the economy
representing 36 percent of Government revenues and 21 percent of exports and goods and services during
2003.

Prior to the presentation of the credit to the Board, the authorities had consolidated the management of
external and domestic debt in a newly-established Cash and Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of
Finance and Planning; adopted a medium-term debt strategy in preparation for the debt restructuring
exercise; and contracted qualified legal and financial advisers to assist them in the debt restructuring
process. Since then, significant progress has been made on the implementation of the debt management
strategy through the debt restructuring exercise. An exchange offer was made to external creditors in April
2004 and was kept open past the initial deadline of June 11, 2004 to ensure maximum participation. The
offer was closed on September 30, 2004. Dominica followed international best practice in seeking to
pre-emptively restructure its debt, and for the most part, the international community has responded
favourably to this effort. Thus far, agreements have been reached to restructure about 70 percent of the
eligible debt, including holders of one of the two large external bonds, and new instruments are in the
process of being issued. Separate restructuring agreements have been reached with most official bilateral
creditors. Although the authorities had earlier stated their intention to exclude domestic creditors from the
restructuring exercise, they have since extended negotiations to include them. Final deals are in the process
of being negotiated with most domestic creditors, in many cases under terms tailored to their specific
circumstances, in order to safeguard the stability of the domestic financial sector. Next steps include
Parliamentary approval of the individual debt restructuring agreements with consenting domestic and
foreign creditors. The Government has budgeted funds in an escrow account in the ECCB to pay interest
on the debt accrued during the restructuring exercise.

Progress on the review of debt legislation has been slow owing to the protracted debt negotiations. It is
envisaged that at the conclusion of the debt restructuring exercise, the Government will turn its attention to
the legislative framework.

In light of progress to date, and the ongoing performance of the authorities, the achievement of the debt
management objective is rated as satisfactory.

Public Sector Reform. The main rationale for reform of the public sector in Dominica is the need to
reduce public expenditures to affordable levels, in order to safeguard social gains made in the last decade
and maintain an acceptable level of public services in the face of a changing fiscal environment. For this,
the Government prepared and is implementing a Medium Term Public Sector Reform Strategy to bring
about an orderly reduction in staffing and create a dynamic, accountable, efficient and effective public
service in support of development. The main components of the Strategy focus on modernizing the public
administration, strengthening economic management, enhancing the enabling environment and rationalizing
social service delivery.



                                                      - 10 -

The majority of the effort during the first phase of implementation has gone into implementing the
downsizing exercise across line ministries in order to achieve the fiscal targets on wage bill reduction. The
Bank, in collaboration with DFID and the European Union, provided substantial technical assistance for
this effort. Bank inputs included the reconciliation of payroll accounts, preparation of an opinion on the
legal basis for retrenchment and severance payments; design of a supplementary assistance package using
ongoing public and private sector assistance programs, and the development of a tracer survey to track the
impact on retrenched employees. Although around 90 positions were initially identified for elimination,
unexpected high levels of attrition resulted in the authorities only having to lay off around 35 civil servants
in the first year. Preparations are underway, through various feasibility studies and planning exercises,
with technical assistance from donors, for what is expected to be a much more complex exercise in
FY2005-06. Limited progress was made on a promised review of public enterprises and public
involvement in private enterprises, including through minority share ownership and loan guarantees. With
the exception of the banking sector, this area of the program was not defined as a critical area for the first
phase of the reform program, given the limited involvement of the Dominica's public sector in productive
and commercial activities.

Achievement of the objectives of this component is rated as satisfactory.

Financial Sector Reform

The relatively well developed financial sector in Dominica was weakened by the recession and public
finance crisis which accompanied it. The major focus of the reform program was to strengthen the
operations of the state-owned National Commercial Bank, improve financial supervision and regulation of
the credit union subsector, and regularize Government contributions to the DSS and improve DSS's
management of its portfolio. With respect to the financial sector as a whole, the Bank conducted together
with the IMF a Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) for the entire Eastern Caribbean Currency
Union, including Dominica. The ERSO supported Dominica's implementation of the first phase of
follow-up measures from that assessment.

The ECCB is following through on the FSAP recommendations regarding the preparation of prudential
guidelines on capital adequacy and corporate governance, and risk-based supervision. This should help
prevent, over the long run, a worsening of the position of commercial banks. In Dominica, the authorities
have prepared the updated Unified Banking Act which is scheduled to be presented to Parliament in
January 2005.

National Commercial Bank. Prior to the presentation of the credit to the Board, the Government had
strengthened the operations of the National Commercial Bank (NCB) by: (i) establishing a Memorandum of
Understanding between ECCB and NCB on actions to improve the financial health of the bank, including
time-bound benchmarks for reducing non-performing loans; (ii) repealing the NCB Act and placing the
bank under the Companies Act to equalize its treatment with that of private commercial banks; (iii)
reducing Government's shareholding in NCB below 50 percent equity stake and using a significant share of
the proceeds to reduce public sector arrears to NCB; and (iv) restructuring NCB Board of Directors so that
the Government could not appoint more than three of the seven members, nor the Chairman. Following the
reduction in the Governments' share of equity to a minority 48 percent, and the repayments from the public
sector during the first half of 2004, NCB's exposure to the public sector has fallen from 120 percent of
Tier 1 capital and reserves in 2002 to 62 percent in June 2004. Less progress however has been made on
reducing non-performing loans (NPL) which have only fallen by 0.1 percent of loans and advances since a
year ago, despite a Memorandum of Understanding with the ECCB which targets a 3 percent reduction.
The management of NCB, later renamed National Bank of Dominica (NDB), indicated that there have been


                                                      - 11 -

improved collections and write-offs on the basis of improved law enforcement that has allowed the bank to
seize collateral, but despite this progress a declining loan portfolio has amplified the NPL ratio. They also
indicated that they have substantially increased provisions for NPLs by 30 percent from to EC$30 million
to EC$40 million.

The management of NDB has taken steps to further strengthen the Bank following the reduction of
Government ownership to a minority share including preparation for listing on the regional stock exchange.
In addition, the Government has stated its intentions to divest additional shares in NCB/NDB, however this
has been postponed due to the ongoing negotiations with the bank as part of the debt restructuring exercise.

Credit Unions and the Agricultural Industrial Development (AID) Bank. Prior to the presentation of
the credit to the Board, the Government improved financial supervision and regulation of the credit union
sector by: (i) submitting to Parliament an amendment to the Cooperatives Act to assign responsibility for
supervision and financial regulation of credit unions to the Ministry of Finance and Planning, rather than
the Cooperatives Department of the Ministry of Community Development; (ii) completing a joint
MoFP/ECCB/ Cooperatives Department inspection of the Roseau Cooperative Credit Union; and (iii)
establishing a committee and timetable for revising cooperative regulations to operationalize MoFP role in
financial regulation and supervision of credit unions. Shortly after, however, the reform effort slowed. The
Ministry of Finance experienced significant delays in filling posts in its Financial Supervision Unit (FSU).
As a result, no formal inspections of the credit unions were conducted between January and July 2004.
Subsequently, posts in the FSU have been filled, collaboration with the Cooperatives Department has
improved, and the ECCB is providing assistance on design of enabling regulations and reporting
requirements and on the follow-up to the RCCU inspection. There has been a resumption of credit union
reporting and inspection. The FSU is currently seeking technical assistance from various donors to support
the development and implementation of its full work program which includes other non-bank financial
institutions and the offshore financial sector. With respect to AID Bank, the authorities conducted a
strategic review of its the operations of this bank with a view to reducing government role in its
management. A strategic plan has been adopted by Cabinet and its implementation is ongoing.

Dominica Social Security (DSS). Starting from July 2003, the Government resumed its monthly
contributions to DSS which had been suspended for several years. Since then, the Government has
continued to make regular payments to the Social Security system. The DSS has prepared and received
approval of a medium and long-term investment strategy for managing DSS assets which includes regional
and international diversification and is currently procuring the services of an international asset
management firm to place US$6 million (or 6 percent of its assets) on the international capital markets. In
addition, as part the Dominica's restructuring exercise, the Government and DSS have recently agreed to
restructure their mutual obligations, involving the Government's outstanding stock of arrears to DSS, and
DSS's contribution to health care costs of retirees. As such, the authorities have recently requested Bank
assistance to carry out a comprehensive review of the pension system during 2005 because of the financial
implications of the debt restructuring exercise.

In view of the progress made and underway a rating of satisfactory is recommended for the financial sector
reform component.




                                                      - 12 -

Improving the Climate for Private Investment

In order to increase investment and spur growth, the Government decided to take measures to improve the
climate for private investment by eliminating distortions that raised the cost of doing business in Dominica
-- port charges and petroleum pricing--and correcting weaknesses in the regulatory framework for
electricity supply.

Port Operations. The lack of competitive pricing of maritime services was regarded as an important
impediment to making Dominica competitive. Despite strong union resistance, reforms were implemented
to modernize antiquated work rules as planned. Stevedoring and long shoring charges have been cut by 30
percent and charges for handling break bulk cargo by 40 percent. In response, the Caribbean Ship Owners
Association has eliminated various shipping charges including an US$190 per 20-foot container surcharge.


The Port Authority has succeeded in reducing the size of the labor gangs from 32 to 20 persons and cutting
the container-handling costs by US$159 and proposes to introduce further changes to the payment system
to base labor costs on number of containers, not tonnages. The latter issue is currently being challenged by
the unions in court, after a successful Tribunal ruling earlier this year. A free-along side system will also
be introduced for freight to benefit importers and there will be no foreign exchange cost for landing and
storage. The Port Authority has additional plans to cut costs further in the future by merging positions and
reducing employment even more.

As a result of the increased efficiency, the Port Authority has been able to attract offers of financing from
cruise lines for additional berthing needed to accommodate larger ships. However, the Bank has advised
the Government that any plans in this regard should be considered within the overall debt strategy of the
public sector as well as the upcoming tourism sector strategy.

Petroleum Pricing. Prior to this credit, in Dominica, like most of the OECS countries, domestic petroleum
prices did not reflect changes in the international market place. Instead, the Government set prices
periodically based on social considerations. Tax revenues fluctuated based on a residual between domestic
and import prices. Under the ERSO, the authorities established, in line with international best practice, a
new transparent mechanism to regularly adjust domestic prices to reflect international price fluctuations.
The mechanism includes a specific consumption tax which has stabilized Government revenues and
uniform margins for industry operators. This mechanism has proved critically important at a time when oil
prices have risen sharply over the past year. As a result, other countries in the OECS are considering
introducing a similar system and have approached the Bank for information in this area.

With the exception of one period during the summer, changes have been approved by the Cabinet every
eight weeks on a virtually automatic basis. Recent increases were made in October 2004 according to the
agreed formula. Draft regulations to codify the new system have been prepared, but their enactment has
been postponed given the unexpected rapid increases in the international crude oil prices, and the need to
review the petroleum-specific consumption tax on a regular basis. Indeed, in June 2004, the consumption
tax was cut to EC$2.50 per gallon, in order to sustain consumption and revenue intake. Next steps include
changing the benchmark for import prices from Caribbean postings to an international spot market price,
and advancing discussions at the CARICOM level regarding the 20 percent common external tariff on
petroleum productions and pricing of petroleum products by Trinidad.

Electricity Reform. In December 2003, the authorities submitted the first phase of revisions to the tariff
formula to Parliament providing greater incentives for efficiency in the regulatory framework. That


                                                     - 13 -

framework is now in place. The full revision of the Electricity Supply Act to address issues such as
licensing, efficiency incentives, and the transparency of pricing, was delayed following a change in
ownership of DOMLEC and shifts in Ministry staff during the summer of 2004. The Government is now
reviewing proposed new and amended legislation on the regulatory framework, licensing regime and tariff
formula and expects to have a Cabinet decision in time for presentation to Parliament in early 2005.

Achievement of the objective on reducing cost for doing business is rated as satisfactory.

Defining and starting implementing a medium-term reform agenda

Work has been proceeding satisfactorily on the preparation of a Growth and Social Protection Strategy
Paper (GSPSP) ­ the Government's PRSP ­ with the assistance of the World Bank, IMF, UNDP and other
donors. The GSPSP is Dominica's full PRSP. The authorities are in the process of fleshing out sectoral
strategies. To date, the focus has been on tourism and agriculture as the key sources of growth. Substantial
donor resources have already been committed for most of the initiatives in tourism and a few nontraditional
agricultural export products are emerging as potential growth nodes. However, there is a need to strengthen
overall policy coordination across government agencies. The authorities are working to fit the sectoral
strategies within a consistent and coherent macroeconomic framework, to prioritize them and to ensure that
the public sector investment program reflects the articulated priorities. A draft of the GSPSP has been
prepared and, following consultations with key stakeholders, the authorities hope to obtain Cabinet
endorsement and finalize the GSPSP by end-March 2005.

Negative pledge issue

At Board approval, Dominica was thought to be in violation of the negative pledge clause on its loans from
the Bank owing to securities granted on a bond issued from a regional bank. At that time, it was envisaged
that the creditor's acceptance of any forthcoming exchange offer under the debt restructuring would resolve
the issue. So far, the creditor has not accepted the offer despite significant efforts from the Government.
In the meanwhile, the same bond issue was found to violate the negative pledge clause of another
multilateral agency ­ albeit for different reasons. In light of reluctance by the creditor to accept the
exchange offer, the Government is preparing to take unilateral steps to revise the terms of the bond issue in
order to resolve the situation.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the ERSO has been substantial. The process of designing and
implementing a complex reform effort has been a major learning experience for the Government of
Dominica and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Measures implemented under the
credit-supported reform program laid the ground work for a medium term public sector reform program
which is underway with donor support, improvements in management of public expenditure, public debt
and public investment. The broad range of analytical work compiled in preparation for this operation



                                                     - 14 -

served to increase the Government's knowledge about key constraints and potential solutions in financial
management, procurement, public expenditure, social protection and the financial sector. Follow-up
technical assistance in the areas of public sector and civil service reform, petroleum pricing, electricity
regulation, and public investment management have helped to build sustainable capacity among certain
ministries and departments. Notably, for example, the Ministry of Trade's subsequent management of the
petroleum pricing mechanism, including negotiations with industry participants, shows little need for
further technical support at this time. In addition, the preparation of this credit was instrumental in forging
closer cooperation among donors for the provision of technical assistance, which has provided a model for
other OECS countries. Finally, the broad consultation effort undertaken by the authorities for the
stabilization and adjustment program supported by this credit has raised the public understanding of key
macroeconomic challenges facing Dominica, and ownership of the solutions.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Shortly before Board presentation of the credit, the former Prime Minister passed away suddenly.
Although his replacement was appointed swiftly, this led to a period of reshuffling of both Cabinet and
Permanent Secretary posts within the Government that caused some delays in implementation of further
actions taken by the Government in the areas supported by the ERSO.

The design and implementation of the protracted and complex debt restructuring exercise (which was
critical to efforts to stabilize the fiscal situation) has also heavily taxed the limited capacity of the
Dominican administration, thus leading to delays in a few areas of the reform program (see Annex 1).
With the recent and successful completion of the debt restructuring exercise, the authorities are accelerating
work in these areas.

With respect to the electricity sector reform, reluctance on the part of the earlier private owner to provide
necessary information for completion of the review and technical assistance, followed by its decision to sell
its shareholding, were the reasons for some delays in progress.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The strong commitment of the Government in implementing its economic stabilization and adjustment
program has been crucial to the success of the ERSO. In general, implementation of the actions taken prior
to the credit disbursement and of the follow-up actions have been constrained by the limited capacity of
public agencies and institutions, a problem which is particularly acute in small states. The provision of
significant technical assistance by donors (including the World Bank), in a closely coordinated fashion, has
helped address this issue and as indicated above has greatly contributed to the institutional development
impact of the credit. Particularly noteworthy, and despite the significant progress made in public
expenditure control, were deeper-than-expected weaknesses in the financial management system which
required the urgent attention of the authorities both in terms of the reorganization of the Ministry of
Finance and the Accountant General's department. Additional technical assistance has recently been
secured from DFID for this effort. However, the authorities argue that the ongoing retrenchment exercise
made earlier this year was an inopportune time to proceed with the reorganization and strengthening of the
Ministry of Finance.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:




                                                         - 15 -

See Section 5.2 above and detailed discussion under Section 4.2.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original credit was for SDR 2.1 million (US $3 million equivalent). The credit was made on IDA
terms with a maturity of 35 years including a 10 year grace period, a commitment fee of 0.5 percent on
undisbursed balances, and an IDA service charge of 0.75 percent on disbursed balances. The borrower
was the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reforms implemented is rated as likely over the medium term. The Government
has successfully carried out the stabilization program and with the revenue, expenditure and debt
management reforms in place, should be in a position to avoid a repetition of the budget deficits and
unsustainable borrowing of the past. The reforms of the financial sector and such key institutions as
Dominica Social Security will help to harden the budget constraint and should become irreversible once the
necessary regulatory system backed by legislation is in place. More broadly, Dominica is pursuing a
program of growth and fiscal stability which will both support jobs for the poor and ensure the availability
of resources for social spending such as education and health. The broad consultations that informed the
design of, and transparency in the implementation of, the reform program have also increased the
involvement and broad ownership among the Dominican population for their Government's economic
policies and performance.

The sustainability of the program is subject to risks. There is always the possibility of a change in political
leadership which may reduce support of the program over the medium term. The very success of the
program will serve to reduce this risk. Also, as indicated above, there has been broad public acceptance
and understanding of the necessity of the reform measures. The close coordination of donors around such a
reform program also represent a strong leverage for continuation of the program under a different
Government. Also, a small country such as Dominica- dependent on a limited export base - always faces
the threat of external (natural and economic) shocks. The capacity which the authorities have shown to
implement hard decisions will be important in enabling the country to absorb the impact of such shocks. In
addition, the reforms recently implemented and the positive outcome of the debt restructuring program are
likely to reduce the high vulnerability Dominica faces. Finally, the confidence which donors have in the
management of the reform program should ensure the availability of timely donor financial support.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the time of the credit, a follow on operation in the short term was not envisaged because the
macroeconomic program did not call for additional financial support, and because of the need to resolve the
negative pledge situation. There are tentative plans to support the implementation of the PRSP/GSPSP,
once this is completed in early 2005, through a PRSC in coordination with the ongoing IMF-financed
PRGF, provided the negative pledge issue is resolved.




                                                     - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was generally satisfactory for both lending and supervision. Preparations were
extensive including a significant amount of economic and sector analytical work on the key issues related to
the areas covered by the loan and other stabilization and medium term development issues. This included,
inter alia:

    l the preparation of a program for reform of financial management under the Country Financial
         Accountability Assessment,
    l a Public Expenditure Review and technical assistance to inform the development and
         implementation of the public sector reform strategy and improvement in the public investment
         programming and execution,
    l a Financial Sector Assessment Program (for the whole OECS);
    l a Social Protection Review to guide the protection of earlier social gains and to help protect to poor
         through the reform period, and
    l extensive technical assistance on the petroleum and electricity reform programs.


Collaboration with the IMF has been close and an active dialogue and close coordination of technical
assistance (including technical assistance pooling arrangements) were conducted with other donors such as
the Department for International Development (UK), the United National Development Program, the
Canadian International Development Agency, the Caribbean Development Bank and the European Union.

The Bank heavily supported the Government's efforts to obtain input and reach a consensus on the wide
ranging reforms in the program though dialogue, seminars and organizing a coordinated donor approach.
As such, the ERSO was fully consistent with the Government's own development strategy and the CAS.
The Bank is perceived by the authorities as supportive and understanding of the problems faced by a
country as vulnerable as Dominica. The Government was critical of large number of conditions contained
in the original negotiating package. Nevertheless, the authorities value the Bank as a key interlocutor in
supporting reforms which in the end were regarded as necessary for the country.


7.2 Supervision:
Although the ERSO was a one tranche adjustment operation in which the agreed policy actions were
implemented prior to Board presentation, the Bank remained engaged with the authorities in monitoring
implementation of follow-up actions and providing technical assistance. Indeed, a narrow focus on the
interim measures contained in the ERSO, and interruption of Bank provision of technical assistance
following the ERSO disbursement, would have hindered progress towards program objectives. Rather,
continuous Bank involvement and flexibility in the implementation and sequencing of the follow-up
measures to take into account capacity limitations and unforeseen issues and events, have been critical for
supporting reform programs in a small state as Dominica. Follow up adjustment operations will be well
served by the way the policy dialogue has been conducted through supervision missions and support for the
preparation for a medium term structural reform program.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                                    - 17 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory for both preparation and implementation performance.
Borrower performance should be judged by the quality of the policy framework which the Government
endorsed as well as the implementation of key measures in both the stabilization and medium term growth
areas. The large measure of success achieved in restoring the stability of public finances and renewing
growth speaks well for the resolve and skills of the key Government interlocutors in carrying out the agreed
reform. The Government maintained a high degree of stability in its reform core team since the
disbursement of the credit. Combined with an equal degree of stability of the Bank's own project team as
well as the Government's appreciation of the quality of the Bank team, the environment for credit design,
preparation and implementation was conducive to a successful outcome.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
After disbursement of the credit, the Government has, thus far, not "back-tracked" on any aspect of the
reform program supported by the ERSO and has continued to implement it, despite some delay over the
original timetable. The performance of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (the Implementing Agency)
and other involved Government agencies was satisfactory. Adequate access to officials, information and
data were provided at all stages of loan preparation and follow-up.

Government officials referred frequently to lack of capacity in the public service as a whole as the cause for
delays in some areas of the program. Logical next steps to the considerable work already done and
underway on public finance reform would be the training of staff for macroeconomic and financial
projections who are able to test various scenarios as a guide to policy making. In connection with the
above, effective and efficient revenue and expenditure management will require a larger number of staff
capable of making budgetary allocations consistent with development policy as well as staff trained in the
control and tracking of expenditures. Reinforcing the inspection control and audit system, including
through the strengthening of the Accountant General's Office with trained chartered accountants, is also a
priority for follow up work.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
See above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The principal lessons derived from the outcome of this operation include the following:

Choice of lending instrument. The decision to do a single tranche operation was adequate in view of the
Government strategy to pursue a two stage approach designed to, first, achieve stabilization of the
country's finances and initiate key reforms to encourage a resumption of growth while, second, identifying
and implementing a comprehensive medium-term program of reforms to restore growth and
competitiveness.

Client commitment. The successful implementation of the Government's program followed from its strong



                                                    - 18 -

ownership and commendable degree of commitment. The broad process of public consultations that
preceded the design of the ERSO helped strengthen the Government's ownership and commitment to the
reform program and likelihood of medium-term sustainability. Also, the demand for disclosure on the part
of the public for information concerning the progress of the program had a positive impact on the
Government's commitment to its implementation.

Institutional capacity. The very binding capacity constraints, arising in significant part from the inherent
diseconomies of scale involved in a small island public sector, have required the judicious selection of
measures to those that are likely to make the greatest impact and are critical to the successful achievement
of the program objectives. The authorities have made significant efforts to marshal their limited resources
to implement these measures, many of which require introducing or amending legislation, an area where
constraints have been particularly binding. It also has to be recognized that the timely delivery of technical
assistance by the international community has been and remains critical to making sufficient progress in all
the areas identified for action. Even despite careful selection of the priority reform program on which to
focus and the availability of significant technical assistance, the timeline for the implementation of
follow-up measures and reforms in the areas covered by the ERSO at times turned out to be too optimistic
in some areas because of Dominica's specific capacity constraints.

Leveraging Bank analytical work and technical assistance. The complexity of the ERSO placed great
pressure on economic managers and showed the need for flexibility on the part of lead donors such as the
Bank and Fund. The Bank was right to carry out an elaborate ESW program in key policy areas which
have enabled the Government to internalize and prepare the necessary reforms. Technical assistance
resources were also important in providing the support needed for the program to advance. Increasingly, as
noted above the capacity to do more sophisticated macroeconomic planning will assume greater
importance.

Donor coordination. As mentioned earlier, close coordination among donors in the provision of financial
and technical assistance greatly contributed to the outcome of the reform program. The donor community
active in the OECS is currently looking at the experience of Dominica as an example for strengthening the
framework for donor assistance in other OECS countries.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments on the Bank's portion of this ICR were provided by the Government of Dominica on December
20, 2004, and have been incorporated in this final version. The following is the Government's own
assessment of the credit operation, received on December 23, 2004.

                                                    * * * * *
Partner's Comments for Incorporation into the World Bank's Implementation Completion Report on
                                                  the ERSO

Beginning in the financial year 2002/2003, the Government of Dominica embarked on an extensive
programme of reform (Economic Stabilisation and Recovery Programme) to correct macroeconomic
imbalances and to address structural impediments to long-term growth. The programme is a combination
of fiscal stabilization measures and structural reforms.

The thrust of the fiscal programme is to reduce public sector dis-saving and the overall deficit and to



                                                      - 19 -

reduce systemic risks to the domestic financial system. The attainment of these objectives is crucial for
achieving the goal of macroeconomic stability and putting the economy on a path consistent with public
debt sustainability, a recovery of private investment and sustainable output and employment growth.

Fiscal consolidation is accompanied by structural reforms that are geared at fostering the conditions for
sustained, long-term growth. Towards this end, the reforms will seek to increase efficiency in the economy,
provide new incentives to encourage enhanced private sector participation and development, increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of the delivery of public services, strengthen official oversight of the financial
system, and concentrate public investments on growth-enhancing and poverty alleviation projects and
programmes.

These efforts are supported primarily by the International Monetary Fund under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility arrangement. The Economic Stabilisation and Recovery programme has also benefited
from both technical and financial support of other regional and international development partners such as
the World Bank.

In January 2004, the Executive Board of the World Bank approved an Economic Recovery Support
Operation (ERSO) for Dominica. The Board's approval made it possible for Dominica to receive a single
tranche adjustment credit of US$3 million from the Bank in support of the Government's objectives of
restoring fiscal balance and engendering growth while protecting past social gains. At the more immediate
level, the credit provided budgetary support that enabled the Government to continue delivery of essential
public services and provide a macroeconomic framework for the crucial debt restructuring effort.

Prior to the approval of the ERSO, the Government of Dominica had satisfactorily instituted key elements
of its reform agenda. These included: the introduction of a medium term macroeconomic framework that
emphasises restoration of fiscal sustainability, economic growth and poverty reduction; specific measures
to improve the management of public expenditures; the design and implementation of a debt strategy to
restructure Dominica's long term debts with a view of reducing the financial burden of servicing these
debts; the adoption of a medium term public sector reform programme that is designed to achieve greater
efficiencies and effectiveness in the delivery of public services; restructuring of the National Commercial
Bank from a statutory board controlled by the Government to a limited liability company registered under
the Companies Act with reduced Government influence; the transfer of responsibility for the financial
supervision and regulation of the credit union sector from the Cooperatives Division of the Ministry
Community Development to the Ministry of Finance and Planning; reduction of cargo handling charges at
the port; and the adoption of a new mechanism for adjusting domestic prices of fuel in line with
international price movements.

The Government's Letter of Development Policy to the Bank described the economic and social challenges
that confront Dominica and the measures that the Government has taken or intends to take to address these
challenges. The Letter detailed the specific actions that were to be taken in various policy areas during the
second phase of the reform programme in 2004. These actions essentially constitute a continuation of the
initiatives that were begun in 2003.

Macroeconomic Framework

Fiscal policy continues to be guided by the objectives that the Government has articulated in its Budget
Addresses of 2002 and 2003, Memorandum of Economic Policies and Letter of Intent to the International
Monetary Fund in December 2003 and the Letter of Development Policy. Thus far, the Government has
successfully managed to contain expenditures, and fiscal adjustment has generated revenues that have


                                                     - 20 -

exceeded projections. Based on growth in the export sector, the economy is projected to grow by 2 per cent
in 2004 after a period of decline in the last three years.

To address poverty, which is significantly correlated to income employment, and to stimulate economic
growth, the Government is developing a comprehensive strategy that will lay out the macroeconomic,
structural and social policies that will inform Government's interventions in very concrete ways, including
the identification of the institutional and resource requirements for implementation. The Growth and Social
Protection Strategy (GSPS) will fully integrate poverty reduction in sectoral strategies for growth, thus
ensuring that growth is pro-poor. The GSPS will be finalized by end-March 2005 following a series of
public consultations.

Financial Management

With the support of the Canadian International Development Agency through its regional ECEMP project,
the roll-out of the financial management information system (SMARTSTREAM) to line ministries has
been completed. With support from the UK Department for International Development under its Fiscal
and Economic Recovery Project, the Government has substantially reformed its cash and commitment
management system to strengthen control of expenditures. In fact, these changes contributed concretely to
the success in meeting fiscal targets under the Government's macroeconomic program. However, in light
of the complexity of the changes needed to be put in place to strengthen financial management, the
Government has postponed the preparation of a new Finance (Administration) Act until a later date. It was
decided that when these changes are fully in place, a new Act will be drafted with adequate stakeholder
participation from line ministries, departments and agencies to reflect new practices and reflecting the new
electronic systems in place, and presented to Parliament.

Debt Management

Satisfactory progress has been made in restructuring a large portion of the public debt though the process
of negotiations has taken more time than anticipated. Most bilateral, domestic and commercial creditors
have agreed to a debt restructuring either along the lines of the Government's proposals or modification of
these proposals. Nevertheless, progress has not been made with some significant creditors. Government
continues to engage these creditors, however. With respect to multilateral creditors, the largest creditor the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) has provided a mix of debt relief measures consisting of the
conversion of higher interest debt to debt carrying lower rates, the granting of a ten-year moratorium on
principal repayments, the extension of repayment periods, the reduction of interest rates and the provision
of a grant of US$6.4 million to meet debt service obligations to the CDB for a three-year period.

Once the debt restructuring exercise is complete, the Government will turn its focus to the strengthening
legislative framework for public sector borrowing. At that time the Government intends to solicit further
technical assistance from the World Bank and other development partners to review and make
recommendations on improving the laws and regulations currently in place.

Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP)

Progress has been made in advancing the development of a three-year rolling PSIP. The Growth and Social
Protection Strategy will influence the further development of the PSIP upon completion by end-March
2005.




                                                      - 21 -

Financial Sector

Satisfactory progress has been made in the area of financial sector reform. Following the completion of the
OECS Financial Sector Assessment Program, the Government of Dominica, together with the other
members of the Eastern Caribbean Currency Union, has prepared amendments to the Unified Banking Act
which strengthen supervision and management of the sector. These amendments are being presented by
each member country to its Parliament to passage. The first set of amendments were presented to the
Parliament in Dominica in 2003. Additional amendments will be presented to Parliament in early 2005.

Following the restructuring of the National Commercial Bank in late 2003, the second phase of the reform
agenda envisaged a five per cent reduction of the National Bank of Dominica's exposure to the public
sector as a share of tier 1 capital and reserves and a three per cent reduction in the ratio of non-performing
loans to loans and advances. The Bank's direct exposure to the Government has been significantly
reduced. Direct exposure is now limited to two overdraft facilities totalling approximately $7.9 million as
at end October 2004. It should be noted that hen NBD acquired Banque Francaise Commerciale (BFC), it
took over an overdraft facility of approximately $3.5 m that the Government had with the latter. (The
ratio of non-performing loans to the entire loan portfolio declined from 32 per cent at the end of 2002 to
22.6 per cent at end-October 2003. This compares favourably with a ratio of 30 per cent for the ECCU
area.) At the end of the 2004 financial year, the Bank increased its net provision for probable loan losses
by EC$15.2 million to EC$27.6 million primarily on account of its acquisition of BFC in April 2004 from
which $14.1 m in new provisions were acquired. The remaining $1.5 million is new provision of NBD's
existing portfolio. Non-performing loans represented 19.1 per cent of the NBD's total loan portfolio at the
end of the 2003/2004 financial year, in part reflecting the purchase of BCF. However, this has since risen
to 25.1 in November 2004, which is only marginally below the ratio at this time last year.

The Cooperatives Societies Act was amended in 2004 to transfer the responsibility for the financial
supervision and regulation of the credit unions from the Cooperatives Division of the Ministry of
Community Development to the Ministry of Finance. The transition, however, remains incomplete as
overlapping lines of responsibilities remain. To resolve this issue, the Ministry of Finance is engaging key
stakeholders on proposals that it has formulated. The Ministry is also working with the Eastern Caribbean
Central Bank to formalize arrangements for inspection of credit unions.

With technical input from Valiant Consultants of Trinidad and Tobago, the Agricultural, Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) completed a strategic review of its operations in mid 2004. As a result of this
review the Bank has implemented improvements to its appraisal and merit pay systems, and some
restructuring of the organisation with a view to greater accountability and effectiveness.

The Dominica Social Security is presently engaged in the process of diversifying its investments consistent
with the benchmark set for the second phase of the programme. The Scheme has taken the decision to
invest US$6 million in international capital markets and has invited bids from three top US asset
management firms. Decisions on the types of investments will be informed by ECCB guidelines.

With regards to Government arrears to the DSS, the Government has remained current in the payment of
employee contribution since January 2003. The DSS has agreed to convert past contribution arrears into
long-term bonds within the terms of the Government's debt restructuring proposals.

Port Charges

The costs of stevedoring and long shore operations and stevedoring charges at the main port have been


                                                     - 22 -

reduced by 30 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. These reductions have been accomplished by
reductions in average gang size, which have moved from 32 to 20 persons, the change in the workload per
hour which requires more work to be done in an hour and the removal of a surcharge of US$190 per
20-foot container imposed by the Caribbean Shipowners Association.

The introduction of a new wage payment had to be deferred pending the outcome of a court case brought
against the Port Authority by the union of the stevedoring and long shoring crews. Presently, the Port
calculates the wage rate paid to labour based on the tonnage of cargo in the container per hour. The Port is
proposing to change this and to move to a system where labour costs would be tied to the number of boxes
handled instead of weight and key labourers would be paid on a monthly basis.

Petroleum Price Mechanism

In October 2003, with technical assistance from the World Bank, the Government replaced the old system
of ad hoc adjustments to petroleum retail prices and a fluctuating consumption tax with a mechanism by
which retail prices are adjusted every eight weeks to reflect fluctuations in the import prices and are based
on formula that includes a flat consumption tax of EC$2.70 per imperial gallon. The regular price
adjustments are made consistent with sections 4(1)(c) and 6 (1)(a) of the Supplies Control Act, Chapter
20:01 of the Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Dominica.

Draft regulations to the Supplies Control Act that will improve the administration of the new price
mechanism have been prepared, and amendments will also be made to the Act to incorporate the new
system.

Electricity Sector Reform

With the support of the World Bank, the Government began a comprehensive review of the electricity
sector and has begun instituting fundamental reforms. The Electricity Supply Act was amended towards the
end of 2003 to set performance targets for the electricity industry and to revise tariff formulas. Efficiency
targets were established for plant efficiency, line losses and the discount factor for the year 2004. In
addition, the lone supplier is mandated to take reasonable measures to reduce diesel generation and line loss
reductions. Price formulas were revised to take into account the protection of consumer interest and
efficiency performance in respect of the generation and supply of electricity while maintaining the financial
viability of the electricity utility. Additionally, the provider is required to take all steps necessary to
decrease the acquisition price of diesel fuel through competitive procurement.

With regards to transparency, the amended Act requires the supplier to ``maintain its accounts in a manner
suitable to facilitate the disclosure of information aimed to increase transparency of utility operations and
tariff setting calculations.''

Further reforms to the tariff structure and the regulatory framework have fallen behind the original
schedule due to delays in the completion of some important prior initiatives. However, work is expected to
be accelerated towards the end of 2004 and early 2005.

Public Sector Reform

The public sector reform programme has proceeded with unequal progress across its many different themes
owing to limited manpower and technical capacity at the level of line ministries and inadequate financial
resources for implementation. The programme appears to have been too ambitious in design and ignored


                                                        - 23 -

administrative constraints. There is concern about the impact that the initial wage reductions are having on
the delivery of services.

Nevertheless, work on the review of human and social development sector component has begun in the new
financial year with the technical input of the Caribbean Centre for Development Administration. Terms of
Reference for the rationalisation and improved targeting of current social protection programmes and the
review of the organisational structure and the planning requirements of the Ministry of Community
Development and Gender Affairs have been developed, and actual work is expected to commence in
December 2004.

Consistent with its policy to reduce the wage bill in fiscal year 2004/05, the government has proceeded to
implement measures to reduce employment in the public service. The European Union has committed to
provide financial support for that programme. To date financing has not been received from the EU. The
Government has, in the meantime provided bridging finance to meet the cost of terminal benefits for those
affected.

Public Enterprises

The Government has made progress on reviewing some of its holdings in public enterprises. The main
enterprises continue to perform adequately from a financial perspective. However, more information is
needed on other smaller and generally minority holdings in private and joint ventures. The Government
intends to pursue this issue further in a later phase of the ongoing Medium Term Public Sector Reform
Strategy

Concluding Remarks

Our own review is in broad agreement with the Bank's assessment. We are undertaking a reform
programme that is comprehensive in breadth and far-reaching in its implications. We are satisfied that it is
an appropriate response to the social and economic challenges that confront us. We are satisfied, too, that
we have made progress. Government finances have improved because of the revenue enhancement and
expenditure containment measures taken and will improve further with the completion of the debt
restructuring exercise. We are making the necessary investments in lead sectors of the economy, and we
are beginning to see the results. Positive growth is projected to return this year. We are developing a
strategy that will sustain this growth and concomitantly reduce poverty. We have the confidence of the
international donor and funding community. Because of the steadfastness of the commitment of the
political directorate to the reform agenda, our policies have credibility and sustainability. Moreover, the
nation in general has accepted the imperative for adjustment and change, thus contributing to the
sustainability of the Economic Stabilisation and Recovery Programme.

Much remains to be done, nevertheless. Key elements of the programme have been delayed or slowed
because of constraints in manpower, technical capacities and financial resources. In hindsight, greater
elaboration of the requirements of the different components at the outset would have produced a more
careful sequencing of the reform measures to take into account administrative and resource limitations and
to allow for a better delegation of responsibility. Alternatively, consideration could have been given to
fewer measures given the limited capacity.

The technical assistance provided by institutions like the World Bank has been critical in helping to
overcome some of these constraints. The Bank's support has been indispensable in instituting reforms in
important areas such as public sector reform, petroleum pricing and electricity sector regulation. The


                                                      - 24 -

analytical work conducted by its staff and consultants has enhanced our understanding of existing
constraints and deficiencies and has pointed to directions for improving effectiveness in expenditure
management, social protection and financial sector management. In the process of working together, local
counterparts have benefited, notably in the management of the new petroleum pricing mechanism and
electricity sector regulation.

We appreciate the flexibility that the Bank demonstrated in the implementation of the Economic Recovery
Support Operation. It is evident of the Bank's deep understanding of the limitations of a Small Island
Developing State like Dominica and the sincerity of our efforts. The Bank's willingness to be flexible was
amply manifested from the start. The total structural adjustment credit was granted on IDA terms, a
departure from the standard practice of offering a mix of IDA and IBRD terms. Such flexibility was
critical to dealing with the budgetary constraint in a practical manner and in managing the reform
programme in general.

                                                   * * * * *

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers for the operation.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome /Impact Indicators:
        Indicator/Matrix            Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
See Matrix of Actions, Benchmarks       Satisfactory             Satisfactory
     and Outcomes, below



Output Indicators:
        Indicator/Matrix            Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
See Matrix of Actions, Benchmarks       Satisfactory             Satisfactory
     and Outcomes, below




                                           - 26 -

                                Matrix of Actions, Benchmarks and Outcomes

Reform Area       Actions completed           Govt Program                  Status            Expected Outcomes         Overall
                    prior to ERSO              Benchmarks                                     · Performance             Impact
                     disbursement         January - December                                  Measures               Assessment
                                                   2004

Sound         Satisfactory               Maintenance of a         On track                    Satisfactory
macroeconomic     macroeconomic            satisfactory                                       performance on the    Satisfactory
management        framework as             macroeconomic                                      Government's
                  demonstrated by the      framework.                                         stabilisation
                  continued                                                                   programme
                  implementation of the                                                       supported inter alia
                  Government                                                                  by the IMF PRGF. -
                  stabilisation program                                                       On track
Financial     Improve financial          Roll out FM information   Completed.                 Effective expenditure
management        management by            system to remaining                                  and commitment      Not
              (i) establishing a cash      line ministries and                                  controls in place    Satisfactory
                  and commitment           agencies [June 2004]                               Improved budget
                  management system      Submit new FAA Act to     Delayed (see ICR text on     execution and cash
                  that adjusts line        Parliament [September   financial management)        management
                  ministry expenditures    2004].                                             · Achievement of
                  allocations and                                                                specific
                  enforces commitment    Preparation of Cash       Delayed                       expenditure
                  limits on a monthly      Management Manual                                     targets under the
                  basis in line with       [June 2004]                                           Government's
                  resource availability; Continue monthly          Met, and ongoing.             stabilisation
              (ii) reducing the number     reporting by line                                     programme ­ On
                  of government bank       ministries and                                        track, but
                  accounts; and            presentation of                                       further
              (iii) appointing an          monthly reports to                                    weaknesses
                  internal auditor to      Independent                                           uncovered in
                  ensure the               Monitoring Group.                                     accounting and
                  implementation of                                                              reporting
                  new financial                                                                  functions,
                  management                                                                     accountability on
                  procedures at the                                                              government
                  ministry level.                                                                bank accounts
                                                                                                 and in the
                                                                                                 Accountant
                                                                                                 General's
                                                                                                 department.

Debt          Improve debt               Satisfactory             Completed.                  Improved debt
management        management by             implementation of                                   management          Satisfactory
              (i) consolidating the         debt management                                   · New regulatory
                  management of             strategy                                             framework in
                  external and domestic  Submit to Parliament     Postponed due to               place for public
                  debt;                    revised legislation     complexity of debt            debt ­ Postponed
              (ii) Cabinet adoption of a   acceptable to the Bank  restructuring exercise,       pending
                  medium term debt         on government           which was the priority for    completion of
                  strategy acceptable to   borrowing to improve    the adjustment program.       debt
                  the Bank.                control, transparency                                 restructuring
                                           and accountability in                                 exercise.
                                           the contracting of
                                           public debt
                                           [December 2004]




                                                           - 27 -

 Reform Area         Actions completed            Govt Program                  Status            Expected Outcomes     Overall Impact
                       prior to ERSO               Benchmarks                                     · Performance           Assessment
                        disbursement           January - December                                 Measures
                                                       2004

Public           Improve management of        Update rolling PSIP for  Completed.                 Increased
investment           public investment by      FY2004-05-FY2006-                                    productivity of     Satisfactory
                 (i) adopting a three-year     07 using new                                         public investment
                     PSIP acceptable to        procedures [June 2004]                             · 75% PSIP
                     the Bank;                Continue monthly and     Ongoing                       implementation
                 (ii) issuing new              quarterly reporting on                                rate ­ 90%
                     procedures acceptable     PSIP execution.                                       implementation
                     to the Bank for the                                                             rate for
                     planning and                                                                    FY2003/04
                     administration of                                                            Alignment of PSIP
                     public investment                                                            with upcoming PRSP
                     projects that identify                                                       and corporate plans
                     clear criteria for                                                           of line ministries ­
                     project selection and                                                        On track.
                      administration of
                     public investment
                     projects that identify
                     clear criteria for
                     project selection and
                     establish a Projects
                     Supervisory
                     Committee to oversee
                     the process; and
                 (iii) publicizing the first
                     quarterly report on
                     the execution of
                     FY03/04 PSIP based
                     on monthly reports of
                     project expenditure
                     from line ministries.
Public sector    Prepare, adopt and begin    Satisfactory              Ongoing.                  More efficient and
reform               implementation of a       implementation of                                  effective public      Satisfactory
                     Medium Term Public        Public Sector Reform                               service delivery
                     Sector Reform             Strategy                                           · 5% reduction in
                     Strategy, acceptable    Implement first stage of  Completed.                    public sector
                     to the Bank, for          downsizing program                                    wage bill by
                     achieving greater cost    as per targets in the                                 reducing
                     efficiency and            Government's                                          employment for
                     effectiveness of          stabilisation                                         FY04/05 ­
                     public service            programme. [June                                      Completed
                     delivery focusing on :    2004]
                     (i) modernizing
                     public sector
                     administration; (ii)
                     strengthening
                     expenditure
                     management, (iii)
                     enhancing the
                     enabling environment
                     for private investment
                     and (iv) rationalizing
                     social service
                     delivery and
                     improving targeting.

Financial sector                              Development of           Completed. Updated
                                               implementation plan      Banking Act based in part                       Satisfactory
                                               and begin                on FSAP
                                               implementing             recommendations is ready
                                               Dominica-specific        to be presented to
                                               recommendations from     Parliament in January
                                               OECS FSAP                2005.




                                                               - 28 -

Reform Area      Actions completed           Govt Program                    Status              Expected Outcomes      Overall Impact
                    prior to ERSO             Benchmarks                                        · Performance            Assessment
                     disbursement         January - December                                    Measures
                                                  2004

National      Strengthen the             Following completion      Postponed, due to the         Improvements in
Commercial        operations of NCB       and recommendations      unanticipated decision of     financial condition of
Bank              through                 of OECS FSAP,            the Government to             NCB
              (i) establishing a          prepare a strategy for   restructure its debt with     Harder budget
                  Memorandum of           further strengthening    NCB as part of the broader    constraint for public
                  Understanding           and/or divestment of     debt restructuring exercise.  sector
                  between ECCB and        NCB                                                   · Reduce NCB
                  NCB on actions to                                                                 exposure to the
                  improve financial                                                                 public sector as a
                  health of the bank,                                                               share of tier 1
                  including time-bound                                                              capital and
                  benchmarks for                                                                    reserves by 5
                  reducing non-                                                                     percent ­ Achieved
                  performing loans;                                                                 and surpassed
              (ii) repealing the NCB                                                                target.
                  Act and placing the                                                           · NCB reduction of
                  bank under the                                                                    non performing
                  Companies Act to                                                                  loans by 3 percent
                  equalize its treatment                                                            of loans and
                  with that of private                                                              advances in 2004 ­
                  commercial banks;                                                                 NPLs reduced,
              (iii) reduction of Govt                                                               but target not
                  shareholding in NCB                                                               achieved (see ICR
                  below 50% equity                                                                  section on NCB)
                  stake and use of a
                  significant share of
                  the proceeds to
                  reduce public sector
                  arrears to NCB and
                  DSS; and
              (iv) restructuring NCB
                  Board of Directors so
                  that the Govt cannot
                  appoint more than
                  three of the seven
                  members, nor the
                  Chairman.

Cooperatives  Improve financial          Adopt revised             Ongoing.                     Stronger supervision
sub-sector        supervision and          cooperative                                             and improved
                  regulation of the        regulations to                                          financial condition
                  credit unions by:        operationalize MoFP                                     of credit unions
              (i) submitting to            responsibility for                                   · Regulatory
                  Parliament an            stronger financial                                       framework for
                  amendment to the         supervision of credit                                    supervision of
                  Cooperatives Act to      unions [March 2004]                                      credit unions in
                  assign responsibility  Formulate an approach     Ongoing                          place ­ Delayed
                  for supervision and      and timetable for joint                                  due to staff
                  financial regulation     MoFP/Cooperatives                                        turnover in the
                  of credit unions to      Dept/ECCB                                                FSU but resumed
                  MoFP;                    inspection of credit                                     recently.
              (ii) completing a joint      unions based on pilot                                · Improvement in the
                  MoFP/Cooperatives        inspection of RCCU                                       financial condition
                  Dept/ ECCB               [March 2004]                                             of most vulnerable
                  inspection of the      Complete joint            Resumed, after delay             credit unions ­
                  Roseau Cooperative       inspection of other                                      Same as above.
                  Credit Union             credit unions
                  (RCCU); and              [December 2004]         Resumed, after delay.
              (iii) establishing a       MoFP and
                  committee and            Commissioner of
                  timetable for            Cooperatives to direct
                  revising cooperative     most vulnerable credit
                  regulations.             unions to take timely
                                           measures to
                                           strengthen their



                                                           - 29 -

 Reform Area       Actions completed         Govt Program                     Status               Expected Outcomes       Overall Impact
                    prior to ERSO             Benchmarks                                           · Performance            Assessment
                     disbursement         January - December                                       Measures
                                                  2004


Agricultural                             Conduct a portfolio audit Completed                       Stronger supervision
Industrial                                 and evaluate strategic                                    and improved
Development                                options for AID                                           financial condition
Bank                                       Bank [June 2004].                                         of AID Bank.
                                         Adopt and implement       Adopted and                      · Strategic plan
                                           strategic options for      implementation o\going.         adopted by Cabinet
                                           AID Bank [December                                         ­ Completed
                                           2004]                                                    · Recommendations
                                                                                                      of FSAP
                                                                                                      implemented ­
                                                                                                      Ongoing.

Dominica        Govt to remain current   DSS to prepare and        Strategy prepared and           Financial stability of
Social Security    on employer and         adopt medium and          approved. DSS is                the social security
                   employee                long term investment      currently procuring an          fund.
                   contributions to DSS    strategy for managing     asset management firm to      · 5 percent of asset in
                   which resumed from      DSS assets which          place US$6 million (6%           non-Dominica
                   July 2003               includes regional and     of assets) on the                investments by
                                           international             international capital            December 2004 ­
                                           diversification.          markets                          Ongoing, but
                                           [March 2004]                                               delayed.
                                         Govt to remain current    On track                        · No new public
                                           on employer and                                            sector arrears to
                                           employee                                                   DSS ­ On track
                                           contributions to DSS.

Petroleum       Introduce a new          Codify price adjustment   Draft regulations prepared,     Market-based pricing    Satisfactory
pricing            mechanism for          mechanisms in              but enactment postponed,        and increased
                   adjusting domestic     regulations to the         in light of rising oil prices   transparency in
                   prices of petroleum    Supplies Control Act       and the need to review          pricing of
                   products in line with  [February 2004]            consumption tax on a            petroleum products
                   international price                               regular basis.                · Codification of new
                   movements,                                                                         pricing mechanism
                   including regular     Continue adjusting        On track.                          - Delayed
                   price adjustments, a   petroleum prices in                                      · Continued
                   specific consumption   line with international                                     implementation of
                   tax and uniform        price movements.                                            new pricing
                   allowances across      [ongoing]                                                   mechanism ­ On
                   industry operators.   Complete review of new    Completed                          track
                                          system, including
                                          intransit and haulage
                                          allowances [January
                                          2004]
                                         Work with CARICOM
                                          to review the pricing    Ongoing
                                          of petroleum products
                                          within the
                                          Community.
                                          [ongoing]




                                                           - 30 -

 Reform Area   Actions completed         Govt Program                    Status             Expected Outcomes       Overall Impact
                 prior to ERSO             Benchmarks                                       · Performance            Assessment
                 disbursement         January - December                                    Measures
                                               2004

Port charges  Reduce cargo handling  Establish new             Completed.                   Reduced cost of        Satisfactory
                charges at Dominica    employment and pay                                      doing business in
                Port Authority by 25   scheme for cargo                                        Dominica
                percent.               handlers [December                                   · Reduction or
                                       2004]                                                    removal of
                                                                                                additional
                                                                                                surcharges
                                                                                                established by
                                                                                                private shipping
                                                                                                lines for services
                                                                                                to Dominica
                                                                                                Completed.
Electricity                          Submit revisions to       Completed                    Greater incentives for Satisfactory
reform                                 tariff formula in                                    efficiency in
                                       Electricity Supply Act                               electricity regulatory
                                       to Parliament                                        framework
                                       [January 2004]                                        · New
                                     Submit fully revised      Delayed due to change in         performance-
                                       Electricity Supply Act  ownership of utility during      based regulatory
                                       to Parliament [June     summer 2004, expected early      framework in
                                       2004]                   2005                             place. Ongoing
Public                               Complete review of        Delayed                      More level playing     Not Satisfactory
enterprises                            public enterprises                                   field for private
                                       and public                                           sector
                                       investment in private                                 · Cabinet adoption
                                       companies. [March                                        of policy on
                                       2004]                                                    public enterprises
                                     Prepare and adopt a                                        and criteria for
                                       clear policy for the                                     public investment
                                       establishment of                                         in private
                                       public enterprises and                                   companies ­
                                       public                                                   Delayed.
                                     investment in private
                                       companies. [June
                                       2004]
                                     Prepare program to
                                       implement policy for
                                       inclusion under the
                                       Medium Term Public
                                       Sector Reform
                                       Strategy. [June 2004]




                                                        - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable because this was a single tranche adjustment operation in which all actions were completed
prior to Board presentation.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable because this was an adjustment operation.




                                                 - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count            Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/02                     4     1 economist, 2 public sector
                                               specialist, 1 public expenditure
                                               management specialist
               11/02                     5     2 economists, 1 public sector
                                               management specialist, 1 public
                                               expenditure management
                                               specialist, 1 financial
                                               management specialist
               12/02                     1     public sector managemnet
                                               specialist
               01/03                     6     1 economist, 2 public sector
                                               management specialists, 1
                                               financial sector specialist, 1
                                               petroleum sector specialist, 1
                                               research analyst
               02/03                     1     petroleum sector specialist
               05/03                     1     petroleum sector specialist
               06/03                     3     1 economist, 1 financial sector
                                               specialist, 1 public sector
                                               management specialist
               09/03                     2     1 economist, 1 petroleum sector
                                               specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/03                     4     3 economists, 1 legal counsel
               11/03                     2     1 economist, 1 legal counsel

 Supervision
               04/04                      1    petroleum specialist                    S               S
               05/04                      1    economist                               S               S
               05/04                      1    financial management specialist         S               S
               10/04                      1    economist                               S               S

 ICR
               09/04                     1     economist                               S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               31.0                              216.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      2.8                               9.6
  Supervision                                6.0                             33.7*
  ICR                                        1.5                              21.8



                                               - 34 -

  Total                                            41.3                            231.7
* Supervision of this single-tranche operation was also conducted as part of the LCC3C Caribbean macro
monitoring (budget code 2028145).




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents

Minutes, Concept Meeting, January 13, 2004

Minutes, Decision Meeting, December 16, 2003

Evidence of Compliance with Board Conditions, February 24, 2004

Program Document, Report No. 27416, January 6, 2004

Development Credit Agreement, No.3851-DOM, January 30, 2004

Back-to-Office Report, Supervision Mission, May 16-19, 2004

Economic and Sector Work

OECS Fiscal Issues: Dominica Policies to Achieve Fiscal Sustainability and Improve Efficiency and Equity
of Public Expenditures, February 12, 2004

Dominica Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and IMF-World Bank Joint Staff Assessment, January
8, 2004

Dominica Social Protection Review, June 2003

Dominica CFAA, June 23, 2003

Dominica CPAR, January 2003

OECS Institutional and Organizational Capacity Review of the Core Public Sector, June 2003

Other Documents

IMF Staff Reports:

l Dominica: Second Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and
    Growth Facility and Request for Waiver of Performance Criterion-Staff Report; September 2, 2004
l Dominica: First Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
    Facility and Financing Assurances Review-Staff Report, May 18, 2004
l Dominica: Second Review Under the Stand-By Arrangement, Cancellation of Stand-By Arrangement
    and Request for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility--Staff
    Report, January 12, 2004




                                                - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed during ICR Mission

Ministry of Finance and Planning
Mr. Ambrose Sylvester, Financial Secretary
Mr. Swinburne Lestrade, Coordinator, Economic Stabilization & Adjustment Programme
Mrs. Rosamund Edwards, Senior Economist, Macro Programming Unit
Mr. Nicholas Bruno, Accountant General
Mrs. Eleanor Astaphan, Manager, Financial Services Unit
Mr. Raymond Austrie, Senior Economist, Sector Programming Unit
Mrs. Yvanette Baron-George, Economist, Sector Programming Unit
Mr. Michael Norris, Economist, Macro Programming Unit

Ministry of Community Development
Mr. Davis Letang, Permanent Secretary
Mr. Washbourne Cuffy, Commissioner of Cooperatives

National Bank of Dominica
Mr. Vans T. Le Blanc, Managing Director
Mr. David Robinson, Credit Manager

Establishment Department
Mrs. Juliette Lewis, Chief Personnel Officer

Reform Management Unit
Miss Irma Edwards, Coordinator

Dominica Port Authority
Mr. Benoit Bardouille, General Manager

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Marketing
Mr. Steve Ferrol, Permanent Secretary
Mr. Alan Paul, Director of Trade
Mr. Ronnie Guiste, Consumer Protection Officer




                                               - 39 -

- 40 -

