INITIAL PROJET INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
DOMINICA - ECONOMIC RECOVERY SUPPORT OPERATION
Project Name:            Dominica - Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO)
Region:                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector:                  Multi-sector
Project ID:              P078841
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning
4th Floor, Government Headquarters
Kennedy Avenue
Roseau, Dominica
Environmental Category:  C                                        A    '   v
Date PID Prepared:       July 11, 2003
Appraisal (planned):     September 15, 2003
Board Date (planned):    October 30, 2003
Background
Dominica is currently suffering an unprecedented decline in output and a sharp deterioration of its
fiscal position, mainly owing to negative external shocks including erosion of trade preferences for its
banana exports, impact of the September 11, 2001, events on tourism, the global economic slowdown,
and a retrenchment of its offshore sector due to increased international scrutiny. Slow fiscal
adjustment to the declining growth rates, combined with an increase in commercial borrowing for
unproductive public investments over the late 1990s, exacerbated the macroeconomic situation and
resulted in a rapid increase in the central government deficit and public sector debt burden, and an
accumulation of domestic arrears. In FY02-03, the economy contracted by 4.7 percent, the central
government overall deficit (after grants) reached 7.1 percent of GDP, and central government dis-
savings increased to -7.5 percent of GDP. With the public debt burden estimated to reach 115
percent of GDP (not including arrears) in FY03/04, the authorities have little room for maneuver to
address the ongoing recession.
In an effort to stabilize the economy, the Government of Dominica signed a Stand-By Arrangement
(SBA) with the IMF in August 2002 and is implementing a program that aims to stabilize the overall
central government deficit to 7.7 percent of GDP in FY03/04 and begin clearing domestic arrears. In
addition to the slhort-term stabilization measures, the authorities intend to undertake a strong program
of structural adjustment over the medium term in order to return the economy to a sustainable growth
path.
Government Strategy
The Dominican authorities have requested IDA's technical and financial assistance in designing and
implementing a medium-term program of structural reforms, to be supported by a US$3 million
Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO). By helping to fill the current financing gap, the
ERSO would provide the Government with the needed space to formulate and start implementing a
medium term reform program to regain fiscal sustainiability and to restart growth, while protecting
past social gains. The macroeconomic outlook suggests that it will take several years to achieve fiscal
sustainability and resume a steady growth path, in particular given the current external environment
and Dominica's continued vulnerabilities. A sustained effort toward stabilization and structural
reform is needed, during which external support will be critical.



Objectives
The ERSO will provide urgently needed budget support to finance continued public service delivery
while the Government of Dominica implements measures to establish a stable macroeconomic
framework and develops a broad structural reform agenda to achieve a resumption of economic
growth. Specifically, the ERSO will support the Government's objectives of: (a) improving its
financial and debt management systems to restore fiscal balance; (b) increase the productivity of the
public sector investment program to target scarce public resources in support of a resumption of
growth; and (c) strengthen its financial sector to weather the impact of the economic and fiscal crisis.
Simultaneously, the authorities are working with the Bank and other development partners to design
and implement a medium-term program of reforms aimed at addressing the economy's structural
problems. Some of these are being initiated under the umbrella of the ERSO, including (d) the design
and implementation of a public sector reform program and (e) measures to improve the climate for
private investment. The ERSO thus supports the implementation of early reform measures that lay
the groundwork for more fundamental reforms and establish an appropriate framework and
macroeconomic environment conducive to a resumption of economic growth.
Description
The ERSO consists of the following components:
(a) Financial management. The Government is cognizant of the need to address urgently
weaknesses in its financial management system. The Bank recently completed a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) which provides detailed recommendations
with a focus on: updating the rules and regulations of the current FAA Act and submitting
new legislation to Parliament; improving cash management through revising budget
allocations on a monthly, rather than annual, basis to reflect actual and forecasted revenue
inflows and on the basis of these reports, adjust monthly expenditure allocations to the
ministries; improving the use of current information by increasing usage of the financial
management computer system - SlGFIS - and completing its roll-out to line ministries; and
strengthening internal controls through updated job descriptions and responsibilities of
internal audit and staffing the internal audit department.
(b) Public expenditure management and productivity of public investment. The forthcoming
review of public expenditure (Analysis of Fiscal Issues) will provide an integral input into the
medium-tern Public Sector Reform Strategy (discussed below). In the short term, the
Government is undertaking the following measures: strengthening the public sector
investment program (PSIP) by prioritizing limited government human and financial resources
on a selected number of projects that are growth-enhancing and labor-intensive and
introducing better administrative procedures for the PSIP; containing the wage bill; and
protecting non-wage recurrent expenditures in priority sectors.
(c) Debt management. The Government recognizes that better management of both domestic
and external debt is crucial for maintaining fiscal sustainability in the future. To this end, the
authorities intend to strengthen the legal and institutional framework for debt management
and improve the transparency of debt contracting mechanisms by: updating legislation related
to the contracting of domestic and external public debt and requiring that proposed new debt
be accompanied by analysis by the Debt Management Unit; requiring the Director of Audit to
conduct an annual compliance audit of debt management systems and procedures;
consolidating external and domestic debt management in an adequately-staffed Debt



Management Unit; and establishing a Debt Management Committee to prepare and monitor a
debt strategy.
(d) Public Sector Reform. The authorities are preparing and intend to adopt a medium-term
public sector reform strategy, with support from DFID, the EU and IDA. The strategy will
focus on: redefining the role of government; improving public sector management and
administration; strengthening economic management; enhancing growth-supporting public
services; and targeting and rationalizing social service delivery.
(e) Financial sector. The authorities are discussing with IDA and the ECCB measures to
strengthen the financial sector, including the following: commercializing the National
Commercial Bank (NCB) and reducing its government exposure; bringing the AID Bank
under commercial banking legislation, regulation and tax rules, reducing the government's
shareholdings by selling assets to other shareholders, and placing AID Bank under ECCB
supervision; and regulating the large cooperative banking sector and placing cooperatives
under ECCB supervision.
Financing and Loan Structure
The ERSO is a US$3 million blend loan (IDA: US$1.5 million; and 1BRD: US$1.5 million).
Discussions on loan structure are ongoing with the authorities.
Implementation
The lead counterpart for the ERSO is the Director General of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Financial sector measures implicate the ECCB in implementing the supervisory and regulatory
changes proposed. The Establishment Ministry and the Public Sector Reform Management Unit
together are spearheading the public sector reform efforts. Specific implementation arrangements are
being discussed with the authorities.
Sustainability
The measures supported by the ERSO represent major components of the Government's ongoing
efforts to address the immediate fiscal crisis within a broad framework of longer-term solutions. The
donor community is actively engaged with the Government - through financial and technical support
- on a range of issues that are mutually consistent. The ERSO also aligns closely with the
Government's ongoing efforts to articulate its Poverty Reduction Strategy.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
Several lessons can be derived from past experience. Small economies with limited human resources
and subject to periodic natural disasters may require long adjustment periods, and as such the ERSO-
supported program forms the first step in a multi-year adjustment effort. The limited capacity of a
small economy necessitates capacity-building measures and technical assistance to support
implementation of the reform program, and for effective donor coordination to avoid overburdening
the country. Thus, the Government's reform program reflects input from several key donors (IDA,
IMF, CDB, EU, DFID), all within a consistent framework. And finally, in countries such as
Dominica where the political consensus is fragile, the Bank needs to support government efforts to
reach out to civil society.



Environmental Aspects
The measures supported by the ERSO have no direct impact on the environment, and as such this
operation is classified as category C and does not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. 202-458-5454
Fax 202-522-1500
Task Managers: Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer/Camille Lampart Nuamah
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. 202-473-2284
Fax 202-676-1494
Note: This information refers to an evolving project and as such certain components may
change.



