Page  1
Report No. 30880 
REVISED PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
DOMINICA 
–
ECONOMIC RECOVERY SUPPORT OPERATION 
Project Name: 
Dominica 
–
Economic Recovery Support Operation 
Region: 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Sector: Multi-sector 
Project ID: 
P078841 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Finance, Industry and Planning 
 
4th Floor, Government Headquarters
 
Kennedy Avenue 
 Roseau, 
Dominica 
Environmental Category: 
NA 
Date PID Prepared: 
January 29, 2004 
Appraisal: 
October 13, 2003 
Board Date (planned): 
January 29, 2003 
 
Country Background 
Dominica is a small Caribbean island state (pop. 71,000) with a primarily agricultural economy, a 
small export-oriented manufacturing sector, and off-shore and tourism service activities.  Although 
incomes are relatively high at US$3,070 per capita, poverty rates are also persistently high (39% of 
the population) reflecting high unemployment and considerable macroeconomic volatility associated 
with country’s economic size and location in the hurricane belt.
 
However, the country does have 
good social indicators as a result of sustained investments in human development since independence.  
In this context, reducing poverty in Dominica will require creating jobs through economic growth, 
improving the targeting of basic services, and expanding secondary education.  
 
Recent Economic Developments 
Dominica is currently suffering an unprecedented decline in output and a sharply deteriorated fiscal 
position, mainly due to a loss of competitiveness and a severe worsening of its external environment 
because of declining preferential market access for its banana exports, the post-September 11, 2001, 
slowdown in tourism, the global economic slowdown more generally, and a retrenchment of 
Dominica’s offshore sector due to increased international scrutiny.  Delayed fiscal adjustment to 
declining growth rates, combined with an increase in commercial borrowing for unproductive public 
investments, exacerbated the macroeconomic situation and resulted in a rapid increase in the central 
government deficit, a doubling of the public sector debt in recent years, and the accumulation of 
domestic and external arrears. 
As a result, the economy contracted by 9% between 2001-2002 and the overall central government 
deficit reached 7.1 percent of GDP in FY02/03, the primary balance (including grants) fell to –1.4 
percent, domestic arrears mounted to around 9.2 percent of GDP and external arrears to 2.1 percent of 
GDP.  With a public debt burden now estimated to be 115 percent of GDP, the authorities now have 
limited room for maneuver.  The macroeconomic outlook suggests that it will take several years to 
achieve fiscal sustainability and resume a steady growth path, in particular given the current external 
environment and Dominica’s continued vulnerabilities.
 
Page  2
In an effort to stabilize the economy, the Government of Dominica signed a Stand-By Arrangement 
(SBA) with the IMF in August 2002, followed by a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility in 
December 2003, and is implementing a program that aims to stabilize the overall central government 
deficit at 7.7 percent of GDP in FY03/04.  In addition to the short-term stabilization measures, the 
authorities intend to undertake a strong program of structural adjustment over the medium term in 
order to return the economy to a sustainable growth path.   
Government Strategy 
The Dominican authorities have requested IDA’s technical and financial assistance in designing and 
implementing a medium-term program of structural reforms, to be supported by a US$3 million 
Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO).  By helping to fill the current financing gap, the 
ERSO would provide the Government with the needed space to formulate and start implementing a 
medium term reform program to regain fiscal sustainability and to restart growth, while protecting 
past social gains.   
Objectives 
The proposed Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO) would provide urgently needed budget 
support to finance continued public service delivery while the Government of Dominica (GOCD) 
corrects an unsustainable fiscal position, implements measures to create a stable macroeconomic 
platform essential to achieving a resumption of economic growth, and develops a broad structural 
reform agenda for the medium term.  The ERSO supports the Government’s immediate objectives of: 
(a) restoring fiscal balance, by promoting actions to improve financial and debt management, 
reinforce the Government’s budget constraint and achieve sustainable expenditure reductions through 
public sector reform; and (b) encouraging a resumption of growth, by supporting actions to strengthen 
the financial sector, increase the productivity of the public investment, and improving the climate for 
private investment.  Simultaneously, the authorities are working with the World Bank and other 
development partners to formulate and begin implementation of a medium term program of reforms 
aimed at addressing the economy’s remaining structural problems.  These will be included in the 
Government’s upcoming Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper to be completed in 2004. 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
The proposed ERSO is consistent with the broad objectives of the FY02-06 CAS covering the Eastern 
Caribbean states, namely to: (i) reduce vulnerability and income insecurity; and (ii) strengthen human 
and institutional capacity across the sub-region.  The focus on fiscal sustainability, improved public 
sector performance and private investment climate will help Dominica create a sound basis for the 
increased private investment and the economic diversification necessary to reduce vulnerability to 
external shocks, as well as protect returns from its significant past social investments.  The structural 
reform agenda complements ongoing efforts to strengthen the investment climate and competitiveness 
in Dominica (and the OECS) including: (i) the OECS Telecom Reform Project which has 
successfully improved the telecom regulatory framework and reduced telecommunication charges in 
the region, (ii) the Emergency Recovery Project approved following the events of September 11, 
2001, to help improve security arrangements at air and sea ports necessary to support the tourism 
sector; and (iii) an ongoing Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) grant for the 
OECS.  The project itself will also help to safeguard social outcomes and strengthen social protection 
during the adjustment period. 
Description 
Page  3
The ERSO supports reform in the following areas: 
(i)  Improving financial management
.
Cognizant of the need to address urgently weaknesses in 
its financial management system, the Government has put in place a new expenditure and 
cash management system that can effectively prevent the further accumulation of payment 
arrears; streamlined the use of government bank accounts; and appointed an internal auditor 
to ensure that the new procedures are followed at the line ministry level.  The Government 
is also preparing a new Financial Administration Act, and is completing the roll-out a new 
financial management information system to ministries and departments. 
(ii) Strengthening debt management
.
The Government recognizes that better management of 
both domestic and external debt is crucial for maintaining fiscal sustainability in the future.  
To this end, the authorities have prepared and are implementing a debt management 
strategy aimed at reducing the public sector debt to more sustainable levels, and intend to 
strengthen the legal and institutional framework for debt management and improve the 
transparency of debt contracting mechanisms.   
(iii) Raising the productivity of public investment
.
In an effort to raise the productivity of public 
investment, the Government has prepared a three-year public sector investment program 
(PSIP) and issued new regulations and procedures for the management of the PSIP.   
(iv) Reducing the cost of government through public sector reform
.
The authorities have 
prepared and are implementing a medium-term public sector reform strategy that aims at 
achieving greater cost efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of public services, which 
has four major components: (a) modernizing public administration; (b) strengthening 
economic management; (c) enhancing the enabling environment; (d) rationalizing social 
service delivery and improving targeting. 
(v) Strengthening the financial sector
.
The authorities are taking measures to strengthen the 
financial sector, including reducing the Government’s involvement in the National 
Commercial Bank and further commercializing the bank, strengthening the regulatory 
framework for the large credit union sector and identifying strategic options for the 
Agricultural Industrial Development Bank.  
(vi) Reducing the cost of doing business in Dominica
.
The Government: (a) has introduced a 
transparent mechanism for the pricing of petroleum products which allows the pass-through 
of fluctuations in international fuel prices to the domestic market; (b) has established new 
work arrangements at the Dominica Port Authority and lowered port cargo handling 
charges in order to reduce maritime transport costs; and (c) is strengthening regulation of 
the electricity sector to ensure appropriate pricing and distribution. 
Financing and Loan Structure. 
The ERSO would be financed by structural adjustment IDA credit of US$3 million equivalent.
 
Implementation 
The Government of Dominica would be the Borrower of the proposed adjustment operation and the 
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MoFP) will be the principal executing agency and would have 
responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the program.  Other ministries and 
agencies, notably the Public Sector Reform Management Unit, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade 
Page  4
and Marketing, the Ministry of Communication, Works and Housing, and the ECCB, also have key 
roles in executing the program, and would work closely with the MoFP in implementing program 
components under their respective jurisdictions.  
 
Sustainability 
The measures supported by the ERSO represent major components of the Government’s broad 
structural reform agenda to address the immediate fiscal crisis within a broad framework of longer-
term solutions.  The donor community is actively engaged with the Government – through financial 
and technical support – on a range of issues that are mutually consistent with these measures.  The 
ERSO also aligns closely with the Government’s ongoing efforts to articulate a Poverty Reduction 
Strategy.
 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations 
Several lessons can be derived from past experience.  Small economies with limited human resources 
and subject to periodic natural disasters may require long adjustment periods, and as such the ERSO-
supported program forms the first step in a multi-year adjustment effort.  The limited capacity of a 
small economy necessitates capacity-building measures and technical assistance to support 
implementation of the reform program, and for effective donor coordination to avoid overburdening 
the country.  Thus, the Government’s reform program complements ongoing programs of several key 
development partners in Dominica, including the IMF, CDB, EU, DFID, CIDA and UNDP.  And 
finally, in countries such as Dominica where the political consensus is fragile, the Bank needs to 
support government efforts to reach an understanding with civil society on the importance of the 
needed reforms.
 
Environmental Aspects 
The measures supported by the ERSO have no direct impact on the environment, and as such this 
operation is classified as category C and does not require an environmental assessment. 
Contact Point 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Tel. 202-458-5454 
Fax 202-522-1500 
 
Task Manager: Camille Nuamah 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Tel. 202-473-2195 
Fax 202-676-1494
 
Note: This information refers to an evolving project and as such certain components may 
change.
 
Page  5
