FILE  G0PY                        ~~~~~~~~Documlent of
FILE COPY                     ~~~~The WoErld Ban:k
FO;R OFlFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-22)45-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMEVOATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
T'O THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
To THE
INVESTMENT BANKX OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
TIRE PROJECT
March 9, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei  4.97        =     US$1.00
Leu  1.00        =     US$0.20
2.  Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00        =     US$1.00
Leu  1.00              US$0.08
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 20.00              US$1.00
Leu  1.00        =     US$0.05
The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in July 1973, a trading rate of lei 20 per US$1 has been used to convert the
prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 20 per US$1 is
being used by the Government to convert national income statistics from lei
to dollars. Consequently; this rate has been used as the base rate for
calculation in the appraisal.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COFACE            -    Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le
Commerce Exterieur, France
DANUBEXIM         -    Danubia Export-Import Agency for the Chemical
Industry
ECGD              -    Export Credit Guarantee Department, United Kingdom
HERMES            -    Hermes Kreditversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft, Federal
Republic of Germany
IITPIC           -    Technological Engineering and Design Institute for
Chemical Industry
OTR               -    Off the road (tires)
ROMCHIM           -    Import Agency for Chemical Equipment and Technology



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA: TIRE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:          Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:      Zalau Tire Enterprise, Drobeta-Turnu Severin Tire
Enterprise
Loan Amount:        US$85 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 7.45 per-
cent per annum.
Pro_lect
Description:       The project seeks to increase production of truck, tractor
and off-the-road (OTR) tires in order to meet increasing
domest:ic demand for these types of tires and to save or
earn foreign exchange. It consists of a new tire manufac-
turing plant at Zalau to produce annually one million all
steel, radial truck tires and a new tire manufacturing
plant at Drobeta-Turnu Severin to produce annually 150,000
tractor tires and 20,000 OTR tires. Tires produced in
the two plants will be used in virtually all phases of
Romania's continuing development effort, including agri-
cultural mechanization, major civil construction and
transport of goods. Substantial transfer of technology
will itake place as a consequence of financing the OTR
tire component of the project. About 4,300 new jobs will
be created, and net foreign exchange benefits are esti-
mated at about US$150 million annually. Technical risks
associated with Romanian manufacture of equipment and the
possibility of commercial risk in concentrating tire
exports in other COMECON countries have been reviewed and
are considered acceptable.
This document has a restricted, distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimate:                                                           Foreign
US$ Millions                as %
Item                                  Local      Foreign      Total      of Total
Zalau Truck Tire Plant                  85.8        30.8      116.6         26
Drobeta-Turnu Severin Tractor
and OTR Tire Plants                    52.7        44.5        97.2         46
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)               138.5        75.3       213.8         35
Physical Contingencies
(10% of BCE)                          13.9         7.5        21.4
Price Escalation
(3% of BCE + Phys. Cont.)              1.8         4.7         6.5
Sub-total                              154.2        87.5      241.7
Working Capital                          9.2         0.9        10.1
Total Project Cost                     163.4        88.4      251.8
Interest During Construction              -          6.4         6.4
Total Financing Required               163.4        94.8      258.2
Financing Plan:                                US$ Millions
Local     Foreign      Total
State Budget                     163.4        9.8        173.2
IBRD                                -        85.0         85.0
Total                            163.4       94.8        258.2
Estimated
Disbursements:                                            US$ Millions
Bank FY        1979       1980     1981    1982
Annual         20.8       51.6     10.2      2.4
Cumulative    20.8        72.4     82.6    85.0
Internal Economic
Return:            22 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 1779-RO; February 23, 1978
Industrial Projects Department
EMENA
March 1, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE l]BRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
FOR A TIRE PROJECT
1.        I submit the fo'Llowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$85 million, to help finance a
project for tire production. The loan would have a term of 15 years, includ-
ing three years of grace, with interest at 7.45 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic memorandum for Romania (818a-RO) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on December 29, 1975, and an agricultural sector
survey (953a-RO) was circulated on November 15, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited Romania in October/November 1976 and its report will be circulated to
the Executive Directors in the near future. The findings of this mission are
incorporated in this report. Country social and economic data are given in
Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, economic
management has been organized along socialist principles which have included
state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and the
absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning coordinated by the central authorities.
Productive enterprises op,erate within the framework of the development plan
which defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production
and investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The plan is
elaborated within a five-year time frame, each year having a separate Annual
Plan. The country began its latest Five-Year Plan in January, 1976.
4.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration ol economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. En-
terprises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which
is controlled through a system of physical production and financial targets.
Production enterprises generally are not authorized to engage directly in
foreign trade and rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this
purpose. In agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the pre-
dominant units of production.
5.        Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian Gov-
ernment. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
given to heavy industry including steel, engineering products and chemicals.
To achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consid-
erable efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formation. In the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP were the norm. As a



- 2 -
consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphasized than that of heavy
industry. In 1976, heavy industry (led by engineering and metal working,
chemicals and ferrous metallurgy) accounted for about 62 percent of industrial
production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the structure of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to approximately 40 percent in 1976.
During the same period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture has
declined from 74 percent to around 36 percent; and while agricultural output
almost tripled, its share in GDP (1963 prices) amounted to only 12 percent
in 1976.
7.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 57 percent in 1976) still live in rural areas and
agriculture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food,
industrial inputs and the residual labor increment for industrial growth
(which requires an increase in agricultural productivity), the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. These earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for in-
dustry, have often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth
in agriculture. The maintenance of the industrial development program, there-
fore, is dependent to a certain extent on the performance of the agricultural
sector.
8.        Romania's population growth is around one percent per annum.  Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged nine percent per annum, implying a growth of about eight percent
per annum of per capita GNP. It is estimated that GNP per capita in 1976
was US$1,450 based upon official national income information and using the
World Bank Atlas methodology.
9.        The organization of production in both the urban sector and in agri-
culture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open unemployment.
There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus, mainly in agriculture. Income
distribution is also relatively equal. In 1976, average monthly wages were
1,964 lei (about US$100 equivalent) up eight percent over the previous year.
Data on 1975 wages (latest available) show that about 87 percent of all.
monthly wages were within the range of 1,300-2,500 lei; four percent were
under 1,300 lei and about nine percent were above 2,500 lei. Prices for
essential consumer goods and services such as basic foodstuffs, rents and
urban transport are relatively low and most social services, notably education
and health care, are provided without charge.   Standards of living, while
still modest, have been increasing because of the rapid growth of national
income. Romania also pursues an active regional policy which has sought to
bring a balanced development of both human and natural resources to all parts
of the country.



-3-
Recent Developments
10.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the effi-
ciency of economic managemnent and to improve the quality of products in
industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use
of chemical fertilizers. To promote the growth of foreign trade and
technical-economic cooperation the Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context,
Romania has also made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external
relations and to pursue full cooperation with international agencies, in-
cluding UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO, GATT and more recently, the IMF
and the Bank.
11.       Measures aimed at continued improvement of the management system
have included reorganizations (involving a reduction from 217 to 112 in number)
of industrial centrals and a concentration within the centrals of all plan-
ning, control and research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in
production and trade, while still an important element in the system, is being
supplemented by much greater emphasis on production and investment efficiency,
product quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness. To eliminate wasteful
investment and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control
has been established, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial
control. A campaign to increase efficiency in the utilization of existing
capacities and to effect significant economies in the consumption of raw
materials and intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy.
Targets have been established to reduce by 30 percent the previously antic-
ipated construction and installation costs of industrial projects between
1976-80. Substantial savrings have also been prescribed for most other
industrial inputs during 1976-80.
12?       Foreign trade has expanded rapidly in recent years both in volume
and in regional diversity. There has also been a tendency to move away from
trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments,
within the framework of ithe general cooperation agreements signed with almost
all of the country's trading partners.  These cover not only the volume of
trade but also arrangements for cooperation in production, technical assis-
tance and related matters in the field of international economic relations.
During the 1971-75 plan period, total trade grew at approximately 18 percent
per annum in current prices. The 1976-80 plan envisaged an acceleration in
the rate of growth of trade, projecting that the volume of trade between 1976
and 1980 would be twice that obtained between 1971 and 1975. The rapid growth
continued in 1976, although it did not quite keep pace with the plan target
which required an increase of 13 percent per annum in real terms. In 1976,
the total value of trade in current prices rose by 14.5 percent, with exports
increasing by 14.9 percent to US$6.14 billion and imports by 14.1 percent to
US$6.10 billion. As in past years, trade with the convertible currency area,



-4-
which was 55 percent of the total in 1976, grew more rapidly than with the
non-convertible area, largely because of a 20 percent increase in exports.
As a result of these developments, Romania had, for the first time since the
mid-1960s, a surplus (of US$72 million) on its convertible currency trade, and
for the first time since 1973 a surplus on overall trade (of US$43 million).
As planned by the government, imports from the non-convertible currency area
were larger than exports to that area in 1976. Because of the deficit on
the invisibles account, Romania had a deficit on current account both in
overall terms and with the convertible currency area. However, these were
considerably smaller, US$20 million and US$60 million respectively, than in
previous years.
13.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies remains essentially unfavorable. Raw
materials and agricultural commodities, both of which are subject to unstable
price and production conditions, comprise about 60 percent of total exports
to these countries. At the same time imports from these countries are largely
of machines and equipment and other manufactures. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agriculture (paragraph 7 above), tends to place the import
program in immediate jeopardy.
14.       In 1976, the momentum of economic growth continued, with most major
targets of the 1976 Annual Plan being met. National income rose by 10.5 per-
cent, gross industrial production increased by about 11.5 percent, and gross
agricultural production was a record, exceeding the flood affected 1975 level
by 17.2 percent. These achievements were realized despite a lower than
planned investment growth rate (8.2 rather than 19.4 percent). The volume of
trade increased less than plan targets, but an overall trade surplus of US$43
million was attained because of measures to economize on imports. The 1977
plan and budget provided for continued high rates of growth. National income
was expected to rise by 11.3 percent and gross industrial production by 10.5
percent. The Plan provided a range of 1.9-13.6 percent growth for the gross
farm output. This wide range was provided because of the uncertain impact
climatic conditions might have on production. Investments in the national
economy were expected to increase by 16.7 percent and total foreign trade
volume by 15.5 percent. Details of achievements during 1977 are not yet
available, but it appears that, in spite of the earthquake (paras. 15 and 16),
targets for industrial production were more or less attained. Published
details on the 1978 Plan indicate growth rates similar to those planned for
1977. National income is planned to increase by 11 to 11.5 percent, indus-
trial production by 10.6 percent and agricultural production by between 6.9
and 16.1 percent. Investment is planned to increase by 16.8 percent and
foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes will increase by 7.9 percent.
15.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country. The earthquake, the effects
of which were most severe in the vicinity of Bucharest, killed 1,570 people,
injured 11,300 and caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion of
the total damage was to buildings, of which US$1 billion was in housing. Of
the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was in inventories and produc-
tion. The earthquake also had a substantial effect on the country's balance



-5-
of payments' prospects. Government projections suggest that the impact on
the balance of payments will be approximately US$630 million during 1977 and
1978, broken down into US$350 million in lost exports (as a result of loss of
orders, production losses and diversion of production to the domestic economy),
US$250 million in additional imports, chiefly machinery and equipment required
for the increase and advancing of capacity in the construction sector, and
US$30 million in lost tourist receipts.
16.       Immediately after the earthquake, the Government began clearance and
reconstruction work and was remarkably successful in overcoming its immediate
effects. Debris was cleaLred, housing was found for the vast majority of those
left homeless, chiefly by giving them priority for newly completed housing,
and most enterprises were returned within a few weeks to full production. To
deal with the substantial longer-term effects of the earthquake, the Government
instituted a comprehensive reconstruction program, which, it is planned, will
permit both the impact of the earthquake to be eliminated by 1980 and the tar-
gets of the 1976-80 Plan to be met. The resources for the additional tasks
during this plan period are expected to be secured through greater efforts of
the population (notably compulsory and unpaid work on one Sunday each month
for the reconstruction effort, voluntary work and financial contributions),
utilization of the army For reconstruction work and from savings of production
expenditures obtained from improvements in efficiency of production which are
to be greater than originally anticipated (para. 11). The reconstruction
effort will impose additional tasks upon the construction sector which, in
recent years, has been operating very close to its capacity; as a result, the
reconstruction program is designed to relieve the constraints of the sector
by advancing the commissioning of new capacity in the construction sector and
those industrial branches which supply building materials, construction equip-
ment, and equipment for the building materials industry. In July 1977, it was
announced that the improvements in economic efficiency were expected to be
sufficient to permit not only those increases in investment, in particular
in housing, but also improvements in living standards to compensate the
population for its additional efforts. In December 1977, the Romanian
Communist Party announced that revised targets throughout the economy were
to be introduced to perm,it the fulfillment of the plan ahead of schedule.
External Assistance
17.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by bor-
rowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism.
Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans
were US$946 million in 1976) consisting mostly of financial and suppliers'
credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow repre-
sented a net inflow of some  US$464 million after accounting for the country's
repayment obligations.  In the first six months of 1977 the gross medium and
long-term capital inflow on convertible account was US$501 million, consisting
largely of suppliers credits. The net inflow for the same period was US$151
million.



- 6 -
18.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of December 1977,
eight joint venture agreements had been signed and two more announced. In
contrast with the earlier ventures, which were of small scale involving total
direct foreign investments of about US$10 to 15 million, the latest ventures
involve far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with
Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will
lead to a total capital inflow of approximately US$250 million. Even larger
inflows are expected as a result of an agreement with Kuwait for the construc-
tion of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25 billion. Romania also receives
medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE,
and HERMES credit guarantees with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East
European recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for
the expansion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing
a US$100 million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation
agreement and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms.
During 1977, it negotiated two Eurodollar loans totalling US$125 million, and
a banking consortium is now putting together a US$53 million loan to finance
Romania's purchase of a 49 percent share of a coal mine in the United States.
It was announced in January 1978 that Romania had negotiated a further US$100
million Eurocurrency loan. In addition, Romania has access to non-convertible
currency investment credits from the International Investment Bank, Moscow.
19.       As it stands Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of such
long-term development finance, though Romania is making efforts to improve its
access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a significant scale would
have a positive influence in this regard and serve to build outside confidence
in the country, thereby enhancing in the long-term its independent access to
the world's financial markets.
Prospects-
20.       The 1976-80 Five-Year Plan reflects Romania's continued strategy
of rapid growth. Investment rates of some 30 percent of GNP are to be main-
tained, and the major thrust is in industry. The plan targets are impressive.
National income and gross industrial output are expected to grow at 10-11
percent per annum, with more rapid growth in heavy industry than in consumer
goods. Continued emphasis is to be placed on foreign trade which is planned
to double in real terms, with the aim of securing the technology needed for
the modernization and diversification of Romanian industry and the raw mate-
rials required by industry. Greater emphasis than in the 1971-75 Plan is to
be given to developing the infrastructure in agriculture, particularly irriga-
tion and drainage, while the plans for fertilizer production envisage an
increase in supply sufficient to double the 1974 application rates by 1980.



- 7 -
21.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. In order for Romania to attain its growth
objectives, however, it will have to rely on a major expansion of exports
of manufactured goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an
increasing dependence on imported raw materials and fuel.
22.       Romania's growth rate is expected to remain quite high by inter-
national standards and, assuming its present momentum is maintained, Romania
will be among the more developed of the high income developing countries in
the 1980s. This high growth will be achieved by continuing Government emphasis
on, first, the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local
investment effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural
resources. However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its
long term plans for creasting a competitive industrial economy, it will have to
attract foreign resources and technology, and secure loans to support its
development efforts.
23.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets require improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demand, areas in which the economy appears to
have lagged behind targets in past years. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure require continuing improvements in the
efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refinements in
economic management. To keep up with these changes and requirements, large
programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, investments in
scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and efforts are
being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized countries
and international organ:Lzations.
Creditworthiness
24.       As of June 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external debt
amounted to US$3,266 miLlion. Most of these debts (US$3,174 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities are
relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to be in
the order of US$680 million a year during 1976-77. The convertible debt ser-
vice ratio in 1976 was 17 percent and is expected to be 19 percent for 1977.
25.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of
a development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid



- 8 -
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits.  Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million in 1976. The preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the
European Communities in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such
exports as is the granting of most favored nation status by the U.S.  Since
the early 1970s, the Government has restricted the use of short-term credit
from western suppliers in an effort to improve the structure of the country's
external debt. In view of the earthquake's impact upon the balance of pay-
ments, the Government indicated that there would be a temporary reversal of
this trend and short-term debt increased again in the first six months of
1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt management policies,
we estimate that the debt service ratio will be somewhat above 20 percent
during the remainder of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will decline,
reaching about 15 percent in 1985. The country's present outward-looking
posture, the success of both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies,
and its potential for continued development, all support the judgment that
Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
26.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With regard to the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S.
claims began in September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon
agreements reached in May 1975. Settlement of British claims proved more
difficult, but a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was
also informed in late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans
from the pre-war period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests
such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War.
The eleventh meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in
Bucharest in October 1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to
be established through diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to
obtain a consistent picture from the two Governments of the present status
of this matter and has, therefore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities
to clarify their respective positions directly with each other as soon as
possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMJANIA
27.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
US$822.8 million for sixteen loans in agriculture, industry and power. Dis-
bursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of January 31, 1978.



-9-
28.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies,
to improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce pro-
duction costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively low.
29.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
irrigation and drainage, dairy cattle development, earthquake reconstruction,
power, livestock productiLon, chemical plants and seamless pipes have been
proposed. The Government: has also requested that the Bank consider lending
for a major navigation canal linking the Danube and Black Sea.
30.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for Romanian officials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Bucharest in January/
February 1975, November/December 1975, January/February 1976 and October/
November 1976. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project
appraisal, are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming
more widely known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the
methodology normally appLied by the Romanian planning authorities.
31.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for ex-
ternal financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to
constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected convertible currency
debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments in 1980
would be about 3 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Industrial Development
32.       Performance of Romania's industrial sector during the last 25 years
has been impressive, and great efforts have been made to transform a nation
that once specialized in the exportation of raw materials into a country with
a strong and broad based industrial sector. Large capital investments, at
annual rates in the order of 30 percent of GNP have been concentrated on basic



- 10 -
and heavy industry, particularly on fuel, electric power, metallurgy, machine
building and chemicals and have resulted in a rapid expansion and diversifica-
tion of industrial output. During the last Five Year Plan gross industrial
output increased by about 85 percent surpassing significantly plan targets.
Growth in the chemical, engineering and metal working, and ferrous metallurgy
sectors has been the fastest with production about doubling.
33.       In the process of this impressive development the industrial sector
of Romania has assimilated in a relatively short period of time vast amounts
of technology and know-how, and it is assuming a sophistication with which it
is increasingly capable of solving complex technical problems and producing
products that require a high degree of technological achievement. One of the
comparative advantages of Romanian industry is its relatively low-cost, skilled
and unskilled man-power, supported by well organized training programs.
34.       Industrialization will remain the first priority of development both
in the 1976-80 Five Year Plan and in the longer rum with output expected to
grow seven fold in the period 1970-1990 (or roughly 10 percent per annum).
While previous growth was often achieved at sacrifice of quality, efforts for
quality and productivity improvement are more evident now. Internally, the
areas of major emphasis will be manpower planning and development, growth in
technological capabilities, industrial modernization, and central efficiency
auditing.  By applying the most advanced scientific methods and by stressing
scientific organization of manpower, substantially more value will be incor-
porated per ton of product. The thrust of the sector's development will
continue to be the growth of the chemical, engineering, metal working and
ferrous metallurgy sectors.
Industrial Organization
35.       At present nine industrial ministries are responsible for the indus-
trial sector in Romania. Subordinate to each Ministry are several foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and a number of Centrals,
which in turn direct the activities of a group of related enterprises. The
work on overall design and supervision of projects is delegated by each Min-
istry to one of its research and design institutes. The enterprises, Centrals
and Design Institutes, which have not been authorized to trade abroad (see
also para 4 above) conduct their foreign business through the foreign trade
enterprises which normally belong to the same Ministry.
The Chemical Industry
36.       Petrochemicals have provided the basis for development of the
chemical industry in Romania. While Romania is no longer a significant
exporter of simple petroleum products, it has established a flourishing petro-
chemical industry based upon domestic oil and natural gas resources, and has
a highly trained workforce on which to base further development of the sector.
Beginning from a relatively small base in 1950, the chemical industry grew



- 11 -
at an average rate of 21 percent per annum from 1950-75. Growth rates in the
past decade have also been substantial, at about 21 percent for 1965-70 and 16
percent for 1971-75, with, the decline in growth rate reflecting increasing
absolute size of the industry and delays in commissioning new plant. In 1976,
the chemical industry accounted for 12 percent of industrial output (compared
with 2.1 percent in 1950) and 8.3 percent of industrial exports (compared with
1.7 percent in 1950). TbLe sector received 14.7 percent of industrial sector
investments during the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan period, and 13 percent in 1976.
37.       Chemical industry facilities are largely concentrated in the center
and the south of the country, where large refinery and petrochemical complexes
have been developed around the Ploiesti and Pitesti oil fields to produce a
broad range of refinery products, petrochemical intermediates and end-products.
The Government is making an effort to locate new plants for production of end
products, such as fertiliLzers or synthetics, away from these traditional indus-
trial centers, partly to promote a more balanced regional growth and to avoid
industrial congestion, anld partly to take advantage of the availability of
labor.
The Tire Industry and Market
38.       Production of itires in Romania began in 1939 when Goodrich (USA)
established a tire manufacturing company (Victoria) at Floresti (22 km north-
west of Ploesti). In 1950 the USSR provided technology and equipment for
manufacturing truck and tractor tires in that plant. Growth in production
through 1960 was slow, although Romania gained considerable experience with
imported tire technologies and their adaptation to domestically available
raw materials. In 1962, the Victoria plant was expanded and a new plant was
commissioned on the outskirts of Bucharest (Danubiana) to produce diagonal
truck, tractor and passenger car tires. This expansion was carried out by
the Romanians with equipment and technical advice from the United Kingdom,
enabling Romanian production to reach 1.2 million tires in 1965. Further
expansion at these two plants for radial passenger car and tractor tires
brought production in 1970 to 2.5 million tires. New technology for this
expansion was supplied by Pirelli with equipment supplied by the United
Kingdom and Germany. Further expansion at Victoria in the early 1970's was
undertaken with technology and equipment from General Tire International of
the United States. Production in 1975 was 3.7 million tires and is estimated
to have reached 4.7 million tires in 1977. In addition to the two plants
included in the proposed project, further expansion of capacity by 400,000
truck tires a year at DaLnubiana and 1.5 million passenger car tires a year at
Victoria are planned, arnd a Romanian joint venture with Citroen (France) is
expected to produce 300,000 tires annually in a new plant by 1985. Over the
last 30 years, Romania has systematically developed its indigenous capability
for supplying nearly all of the raw materials required for the tire industry.
Of the more important inputs, only natural rubber and wire tire cord are
imported; a plant started producing the latter in mid-1977 to supply about
50 percent of domestic requirements. Successive expansions of this plant are
scheduled to provide for all of the domestic requirements of wire tire cord
by 1985. Synthetic rubber, carbon black, fabric cord and most chemicals
needed for tire production are produced in Romania, and tire technology has
been adapted where neceissary to meet the specifications of domestic materials.



- 12 -
39.       Tire consumption in Romania is, as in any country, a function of new
vehicle production and the stock of vehicles in use. Both of these variables
are controlled by central planning authorities, and priority has been given
in the past to increasing truck and tractor production rather than to pas-
senger cars. Although future production plans now call for relatively more
passenger cars, vehicle ownership in 1985 is expected to be lower than in other
countries at comparable levels of income. Vehicle production is expected to
increase from 168,000 in 1975 to 540,000 in 1985 (with about 25 percent of pro-
duction exported throughout the period), and vehicles in service are expected
to increase from 771,000 in 1975 to about 1.9 million in 1985. Included in
these figures are Romanian plans to begin manufacture of large "off the road"
(OTR) equipment such as scrapers, loaders, dump trucks and bulldozers, which
will require OTR tires of the type to be produced by the project. Even after
the substantial increases in vehicle production and use anticipated through
1985, the number of vehicles expected to be in use (81 per 1,000 inhabitants)
will be low in comparison with other countries at a similar stage of develop-
ment. This reflects the considerable growth potential of the Romanian tire
market, which is expected to increase at 11 percent per annum overall through
1985. Growth of the OTR market segment is expected to be greatest at 22 per-
cent per annum, followed by passenger car tires at 16 percent, tractor tires
at 9 percent and truck tires at 6 percent.
40.       Romania is currently exporting about 25 percent of its tire produc-
tion, and expects to increase this share to about 40 percent in 1985. The
quality of Romanian tires meets the standard necessary for export markets.
Passenger car tires -- which require minimum technical support services and
are basically traded and marketed as consumer goods -- have been exported
primarily to convertible currency areas, and now account for about 60 percent
by volume of all tire exports; truck and tractor tires, on the other hand,
have been exported predominantly to COMECON countries. This pattern is
expected to become even more pronounced by 1985. The leading importers of
tires among about 30 western countries are the Federal Republic of Germany,
Iran and The Netherlands -- which together account for 63 percent of Romanian
tire exports. Romania also plans to enter the US market for radial truck
tires in 1978. Although significant in relation to total Romanian production,
tire exports accounted for only about 1 percent to 2 percent of total inter-
national trade, and this share is expected to increase to only about 3 percent
to 5 percent by 1985. With increasing volume of tire exports, particularly to
non-COMECON countries, the organization for tire marketing (DANUBEXIM) will
have to be strengthened, and the Government is considering establishment in
the early 1980's of a separate Romanian export agency to deal exclusively with
tires. Exports to COMECON are carried out within the framework of long term
trade agreements covering the next 10 to 15 years, and 80 to 90 percent of
project exports would be to other COMECON countries. Under such agreements,
Romania (along with Hungary) is responsible for developing and producing
radial truck and tractor tires of the type to be produced under the project to
help meet planned consumption of such tires in COMECON. These arrangements
recognize Romania's comparative advantage in producing high quality tires at
competitive costs. Specific trade agreements are routinely renegotiated
within the framework of the specialization agreements noted above. The latest
such agreement for truck and tractor tires extends to 1982, and no exceptional
problems are anticipated in marketing project output profitably.



- 13 -
The Borrower
41.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for investment
projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including water
resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic staff
with branch offices in aLl districts of the country. The Investment Bank's
involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff appraises
all major investment projects technically and financially and recommends for
or against their financing to the Government. When a particular project and
its financial plan has been approved by the Council of State, all funds are
channeled through the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved financial
plan. All payments for the execution of a project must be authorized by the
Investment Bank, which keeps separate accounts for each category in the finan-
cial plan for every enterprise. It is the Investment Bank's obligation to
ensure that a project is executed according to the financial and technical data
included in the final technical and economic study approved by the Council of
State. Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding according to
the schedule approved inL the Plan.
42.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is thus
rather strong during implementation of a project, its functions are much more
limited during operation of a project. Although it has the right and obliga-
tion to verify that an enterprise is meeting the targets set in the investment
plan, it has no legal authority to influence directly the management of the
enterprise or to force the enterprise directly to take operational actions
which it considers necessary. In practice, however, it can request such
actions very effectively by reporting through the Ministry of Finance to the
Government.
43.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing ot'her than in agriculture, but its own funds for onlend-
ing as credits are relatively small. The primary source of its funds is the
state Budget. The Government will ensure the availability of sufficient funds
including foreign exchange requirements for the implementation and operation
of the project (Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Guarantor will
also ensure that the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank
loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was proposed to the Bank in February 1976 as one of a
number of projects for which the Romanians sought Bank financing during the
1976-80 Five-Year Plan. Following preparation of project data requested by
the Bank, it was identiLfied as a project of further interest to the Bank in
May 1976 by a mission which reviewed ten chemical subsector projects. A
preparation mission visited Romania in January 1977 to further discuss the
project. More complete information on the project was received in March 1977,
and a second preparation mission visited Romania in April 1977. The project



- 14 -
was appraised in July 1977, and negotiations were held in Washington in
January 1978. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Ion Ratoi, First Vice
President of the Investment Bank, and included representatives of the Minis-
try of Chemical Industry, Import Agency for Chemical Equipment and Tec!-"--y
(ROMCHIM) and the Investment Bank.
The Project
45.       The objective of the project is to increase production of truck,
tractor and OTR tires in order to meet increasing domestic demand for these
types of tires and to save or earn foreign exchange through import substitu-
tion and exports. Two new tire plants would be constructed in recently dev-
eloped industrial estates at Zalau in the northwestern district (judet) of
Salaj and at Drobeta-Turnu Severin in the southwestern district of Mehedinti
(see map). The plant at Zalau would produce one million truck tires annually,
about half to meet expected increases in domestic demand and about half for
export. The production of all steel 1/ radial truck tires, including tubeless,
forms an excellent technological base for exports since these types of tires
are in increasing demand. The plant at Drobeta-Turnu Severin would produce
about 150,000 tractor tires and about 20,000 OTR tires. The increased avail-
ability of radial truck and tractor tires and the new production of OTR tires
will allow Romania to extend its tire production program to new sizes and will
modernize the overall product mix. About 20 percent of tractor tires and about
15 percent of the OTR tires would be exported. Eighty to ninety percent of all
project exports are expected to go to COMECON countries, but the Romanians
would also take advantage of specific market opportunities in convertible
currency areas as they arise. Facilities for power generation, steam and
water will be provided by the industrial parks, and are not included as part
of the project. Selection of locations for the two new tire plants has been
made under Government policy for decentralization of industrial facilities and
has taken into account the availability of labor, raw materials and utilities.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1779-RO, of February 23, 1978) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Implementation
46.       Two new project enterprises would be responsible under supervision
of the Central for rubber goods and plastics under the Ministry for Chemical
Industry, for execution of the project. Commercial production is expected
to begin by January, 1980 and January 1981 for the Zalau and Drobeta-Turnu
Severin plants, respectively. The Zalau Tire Enterprise will be responsible
for construction and operation of the truck tire plant and was established in
March 1977. The Central has provided experienced project management and
senior staff to the enterprise, the Government has approved detailed project
parameters (technical and economic indicators) to provide the legal basis for
financing and implementing the project, and site organization has begun. The
Drobeta-Turnu Severin Tire Enterprise has not yet been established, as the
construction of the tractor and OTR tire plant has been planned to follow that
1/   All steel tires are those in which both belts and plies are made of steel
wire.



- 15 -
at Zalau by about one year. The Drobeta-Turnu Severin enterprise is expected
to be established by mid-1978 and will be responsible for construction and
operation of the tractor and OTR tire plant. Establishment of the Drobeta-
Turnu Severin Enterprise and approval of detailed project parameters for the
tractor and OTR tire plant by the Government will be conditions of disburse-
ment for the major portion of the proposed loan allocated for the Drobeta-
Turnu Severin plant, but up to US$6 million intended for down payments on key
contracts could be disbursed before these actions in order not to delay the
project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(c) to the Loan Agreement). Under the terms
of the Loan Agreement (Section 1.01 (e)), the Central would assume all respon-
sibilities of the enterprise until the latter is established. The key to
success of the OTR tire component will be securing imported technology and
engineering. Discussions are already underway with eight suppliers (para. 50),
and a contract for this component of the project is expected by mid-1978. No
funds for any part of the OTR component of the project would be disbursed until
conclusion of this contract (Schedule 1, para. 4 (b) to the Loan Agreement).
47.       The Central responsible for the two new enterprises has a long
experience in tire production in two older plants under its administration,
and is in a position to draw on experienced staff to ensure successful execu-
tion of the project proposed for financing. It has already recruited workers
from the Zalau and Drobeta-Turnu Severin regions for training in existing tire
plants in order to establish a nucleus of skilled workers for the new plants.
A project management team has been established and includes staff from the
several specialized agencies responsible for particular aspects of the proj-
ect. IITPIC (Technological Engineering and Design Institute for the Chemical
Industry) is responsible for engineering and design of the project, and will
work closely with the foreign supplier of technology and engineering for the
OTR plant. Civil works and construction work will be carried out, under
supervision of IITPIC, by construction trusts from the Ministry of Industrial
Construction. International procurement will be handled by ROMCHIM (Import
Agency for Chemical Equipment and Technology under the Ministry of Chemical
Industry), subject to technical review by IITPIC. Although these arrangements
may appear rather fragmented, the responsibilities of each party are mandated
by law after the Government has approved the detailed parameters of the proj-
ect. Arrangements of this sort are well-established under the Romanian system
and have worked satisfactorily for previous projects.
Project Cost and Financinag
48.       The estimated total cost of the project (excluding import duties and
taxes) is US$251.8 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component of
US$88.4 million. The cost of equipment and materials to be procured from
foreign suppliers has been estimated at the international prices prevailing in
1977. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the base
cost. Price contingencies on foreign exchange cost are based on an annual
increase of 7.5 percent during the construction period. Due to near zero
inflation under the Romanian system of administered prices, price contingen-
cies on local costs have been calculated at one percent annually.



- 16 -
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$85.0 million would finance 96 percent
of the foreign costs of the project. The proposed loan to the Investment Bank
would be for 15 years including a grace period of 3 years and would be guaran-
teed by the Government. It is Romanian practice for the State to invest
virtually all funds in industrial projects through the Investment Bank without
formal onlending agreements and to recover investment costs from project
beneficiaries through a variety of financial mechanisms including net income
transfers from state enterprises, taxes and depreciation payments. For this
reason, the Investment Bank would not actually relend the Bank loan to the
project enterprises. However, the enterprises would be the beneficiaries of
the Bank loan and their provision of funds to the State Budget and Investment
Bank would be sufficient to cover the Lei equivalent of the debt service on
the Bank loan including (notional) payment of principal plus interest at 10
percent (Section 4.01 (a) (viii) of the Loan Agreement). This arrangement is
in line with our practice in previous industrial projects, and the Investment
Bank would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The remaining
project costs and an estimated US$6.4 million of interest during construction
would be financed by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       US$82 million of items for the Zalau and Drobeta-Turnu Severin
plants to be financed under the proposed loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Included among these items is a major package, estimated to cost about US$28
million, of imported technology, engineering and specialized process equipment
for the OTR tire plant to be constructed at Drobeta-Turnu Severin. At the
Bank s request, this package, as well as other equipment and materials to be
imported, was internationally advertised in September 1977, and embassies of
all Bank member countries and Switzerland represented in Bucharest were
informed of the project at the same time. Eight suppliers from three coun-
tries have shown interest in the OTR package in response to these initiatives.
Bidding for the OTR package will be conducted under a modified, two-stage
procedure under which initial technical bids were received in January, 1978
and final technical and price bids are to be submitted in May 1978. In addi-
tion to the OTR tire package, US$54 million of equipment and bulked materials
will also be procured through international competitive bidding. Romanian
suppliers participating in international competitive bidding would be accorded
a margin of preference of 15 percent or applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower, and it is expected that Romanian suppliers would win about US$17 mil-
lion of contracts, largely for tire molds, small presses and transport systems
for finished products. Imported items costing less than US$100,000 each may
be purchased after solicitation of bids from at least three member countries
and Switzerland, unless this would be impractical for technical reasons, in
which case the items involved would be procured by prudent shopping. The
total of such exceptions from full international competitive bidding would not
exceed US$3 million.
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over four years for (i) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for imported technology, equipment and materials, and
(ii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for equipment for items



- 17 -
procured from Romanian suppliers following international competitive bidding.
Special conditions of disbursement relating to project implementation have
been noted in paragraph 46.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The project will contribute to meeting Romania's growing demand for
truck, tractor and OTR tires, will help to save scarce foreign exchange and
will provide a base for increased tire exports, primarily to other Eastern
European countries. Tires produced in the two new plants will be utilized in
virtually all phases of Romania's continuing development effort, including
agricultural mechanization, major civil construction and transport of goods.
Substantial transfer of technology would also take place, in line with Bank
objectives for industrial lending in Romania, through the financing of the
technology, engineering and equipment for the OTR tire plant. Net annual
foreign exchange benefits of the project are estimated at US$150 million.
Substitution of imports from convertible currency areas is expected to account
for about two-thirds of this foreign exchange benefit. Exports, primarily to
GOMECON, are expected to account for the remaining one-third. In addition,
the project will develop major industry in two less developed parts of the
country and will provide employment for about 4,300 people. Virtually all
costs and benefits of the project have been quantified. The expected economic
rate of return is estimated to be 24 percent for the Zalau truck tire plant,
the cost of which is US$138.2 million; 19 percent for the OTR plant at Drobeta-
Turnu Severin, the cost of which is US$52.3 million; and 17 percent for the
tractor tire plant at Drobeta-Turnu Severin, the cost of which is US$61.3
million. The average economic rate of return for the project as a whole is
22 percent. These returns are relatively sensitive to price changes, but
the project would show aLn acceptable return of about 14 percent even in the
unlikely event that tire prices were 10 percent less than anticipated.
53.       Three potential technical and commercial risks have been taken into
account in evaluating the project. First, the Zalau truck tire plant and the
tractor tire section of the Drobeta-Turnu Severin plant will be the first com-
plete tire plants designed and implemented by the Romanian design institutes
and the Central with the only outside assistance being extended to the OTR
tire section of the Drobeta-Turnu Severin plant. However, given the fact that
Romania has gained consiLderable experience in the execution of tire projects
through numerous and substantial expansion programs in two existing plants,
this risk is acceptable. Second, a substantial portion of the process equip-
ment for tire production and not proposed for financing under the proposed
loan will be designed and manufactured for the first time in Romania.  The
technical risk associated with this approach is reduced because the designs
are based on proven equipment and have been adapted to Romanian condi-
tions. Romanian manufacturing capabilities are satisfactory for this type of
work, and the Romanian authorities have indicated that provisions have already
been made to produce thie necessary equipment to meet the construction schedules
of the two new plants. Finally, eighty to ninety percent of tire exports from
the project would be to other COMECON countries. The potential market risk of
concentrating exports on these countries has been considered (para. 40), and
no exceptional problems are anticipated in marketing project output profitably.



- 18 -
54.       The potentially most serious pollutant from the project is carbon
black which could contaminate the atmosphere, and surface and groundwater.
IITPIC's specifications for the carbon black handling system call for enclosed
conveyors, and for silos to be kept at below atmospheric pressure and provided
with devices to prevent leakage. The project sponsors have also indicated
their willingness to introduce strict ecological and safety standards. The
Loan Agreement (Section 4.01 (i)) requires that the project be operated with
due regard for ecological, environmental and safety standards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank of
Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the project have been noted in paragraph 46 and
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 9, 1978
Washington, D. C.



TABLE 3A                                                ANNEX I
RCFUUNIA RIP. OF  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
-------------              CMRCtiNlA RIP. OF                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      237.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     149.0                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE          YUGOSLAVIA    ITALY   GCRMANY   D. REP.EC   OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       .-     550.0** 1450.0**             830.0*    1910.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AHD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          1S.4       20.3       21.4/a            20.4        53.7       61.6
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SCUAE KM.                       77.0      9S.#       90.0/a             10.0       171.0      240.0
PER SQ. AN. AGRICULTURAL LANO      126.0      136.0     144.07             139.0       266.0      439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        23.9       19.0      19.7               21.0        10.6        17.3
CRUDE OEATH RATE (/THM0.AV)         10.9        S.9       9.3                9.1         9.7        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       75.7      49.4       34.7               55.5        29.6       23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)    6S.9         67.7      69.1               67.7        71.9       70.3
09D5S REPRODUCTION RATE              1.2        1.3       1.3                1.3         1.3         1.2
POPILATtOM 0SOUWTU.ATS (I.)
TOTAL                                1.2        1.0       1.0                1.0         0.8         1.0
URBAN                                3.8        3.4       2.1                4.6         0.9        4.1
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         32.0       40.8      43.0               38.7        51.5        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      27.9 /a   25.9      ?2.4La              28.3        24.4       23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      64.9R 6W5.5          D'. BTK            64.3        65 2       63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                    7.27w    s.6         9.8IT              7.4        10.4       13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   e.s        0.5       0.5                0.6         0.5         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.7/b      0.7/a     0.7/a,b             Q- 0-9/a              0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        .         ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         .          *-
EMPLOYMENT
__________
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3600.0    9608.0   10200.0/a                 *-    19600.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        60.0       49.0      360oT                ..        19.0        0.9
UNEMPLOYED (% Of LABOR FORCE)           ..         ..         .                  .-        3.1         0 7
INCOME DISTRIUUTIGN
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..        ..               15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ,,         .          ..              41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         .         ..                6.6
LOWEST  40% OF hOUSfS1LDS             ..         ..        ..               18.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_______________________ _____
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..              15.1 /a
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..         ..              84.9..
HEALTH AND MJTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             740.0      680.0     620.0             1010.0       550.0      580.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        300.0      200.0     180.0              410.0       470.0/b    350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          180.0 /C  140.0/b   120.0/C             170.0        90.0       90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       105.0      118.0     11B.0/d            124.0       126.0      121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             *1.0      92.0       90- 07             92.0       100.0       88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0       28.0        *-               29.0        42.0       56.0
DEATH RATE (/THoU) AGES 1-4            4.9/a      2.4        2.1               2.6         1.0         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      98.0    113.0       108.0               94.0       110.0      129.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    24.0       44.0      49.0               45.0        60.0       66.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       14.0      14.0               12.0        13.0       15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    54.0      5.0       67.0               72.0        26.0       48.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 ..         ..      98.e               B5.0        97.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER RoOM (URtBAN)               ,.        1.3/C       *-                *-          *          0.7/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        *-      S8.0/c,d    ..                 ..          ..         0.3/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                                           ..         ..      100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                             -
TO ELECTRICITY (5)                     ..      27.0/C       *.
CONSUMPTION
___________
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       109.0      152.0    146.0                165.0      218.0       31B.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                 ..              .               35.0       190.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         414.0    1615.0    2411.b               1288.0     2262.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              2.1        2.6       2.1                 4.3        5.3        17.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AttiR I
Page 2 Of 4 Pages
Utoisso otherise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bstween 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
19 73 ad1975.
o GCP per capita dat.arer  base.d on the World Bank Atisa mesthodology (1974-76 basis).
00 Not conparahir to those for othor Centrally Planne d Ecoomiso.  Derived by using the Sank Atlsa methodology, by edjuating official Rousanlen
National Accounts data and conveting th into US dollars at the effective exchange rate for foreign trade transactions which approximaesa
LO.i 20 per US dollar.
asa   he Federal Ropublic of Germay has been selected  as an objective coutry bec.u.o it is an iuduetrilallod European country with maJor trade
cien with Roasei.l.
itOtANIAO                  1960    /   1962;    /b  Rati.ocf populatIon coder 15 and 65 ond over to total labor forc;    /c  Hospitals only,
ecolodes asnitaria and materity bh-e..
1970    I   Rstio of population  under 15 sod 65 and  -oer to total labor force;    /b  Hospitals only, encludes saniteris
and maternity hosae;    /c  1966;    /d  InsIde onhly.
MOST RECENT ESITKAYR:    Is  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 sod over to total labor force;    Ic  Raspitals
only, excludes  sanitsri.soad materity hones;    Id  1969-71 swerge;    /e  1974, official
netinste is 100 percant.
YI.ECSLAVIA                1970    I   Agric-ltore land held by social sector 'Ksmbimste';    /b  Agriculture land held by private small-holders  "10
hsctsresmelma"           /0  Including midwives, assistant midwives, sasistnt n esand nursing seilseisa.
ITALY                      1970    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /b  Hospital personnel.
GElIf riN  . FED iREP OP   197      /s  Total, urban and rursl;    /h  I-aid. only.                                                        Elf, February 21, 1978
oErfliITIONu Or ocLa DIICAT S
Land Area (thou us2)                                                                         PoPulaotin par nura in  Pareo  - Population divided by nmbor of prttotioig
Total -Total  -ofa-  area oneprining land ares and inland waters,1 mae.ad f-1al gradut caenro,trained  or 'crtifiad'  nurses  and
cArin.-  Moe troont as cmate of agrioultur1 ares used tcaporarily or Pace-                     auniliary pereonn1 vith traiting oreprine
tenly for crop., patr,mrket 6 hitchen gardes- or to lie fallna.                          FoPo1atin par hosoita1 bed - Population divided bY osebar of hospital beds
avsilabta in public and private general and specialteed hospital and
GNP Per ..plt. (1US$) - GNP Per capita estimates at currant markt price,                       rehabilitation centers; e..lodna onring homes. and establietnents for
caI.lclted by osm  conerion s tbhd as World Rank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      tooatodia1 and prevenive care.
1460; 1970 and 1975 dora.                                                                 Per SePita coonly of oslorias f of reoureasesta) - Csepted foam a_ergy
equivalet of met food suPIe  avalable En country par capita per day;
PPcolatin and itu1 -ttisti-:                                                                   available soPPles comprise d-mntic production,imports less  nperts, and
Fonolrion(oldyearnillool    0 ofJuly firer:  if not o-ilablo,  vorge                 changes in stok; nor soPPlies so-t ld  uninaI feed, esads, quenitisnousad
of two eed-yeu  ..si omter; 1:60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                        in food prucesing sod lbases in distribuotion; reqairoenets were eatiasred
hY PAO based on Pbysiolgicl needs for normal activity and halth  osonid-
PonlatIion desr -o    or be - Mid-yea  Ppoplatio  per squar  kilooerar                         erin  snirota1 toperaturs, body -eight, age an...d sax distribution   of
(10hctm)of ctu-I area.                                                               poplation, end alnuing 10% for wast sat household I.-eJ.
Poclaios, dneity-ar soure be of acric   . lad - Conpured as above for                 Per ..eita sueply of protein (rae, ear dy -Prti   oenofPar caPita
egricolcucal lend only.                                             co~~~~~~~~~t:supply of food per day; net suPPlY of food is defined as above; require-
it-1 -t                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asr  for all co"trie  es,ta,bliebed by lIDA Etoonoic  ..  Ra hse   er_ic.a
Vitl-sttis-tics                                                                                proide for a minlos  aInon_   of 60 gatao of total protein Per day, and
Crudo bircb rato ear th-onnd. --vers - Annul live bictbo per th-ou d of                        20 gras of animal sod pulac protein, of which 1 0 gras soold he animal
mid-year  poplation; ten-year ari teetic avrgages eding int 1961 and 1970,                   Protein; theso standardn ar  I-or thon those of 75 grna of totsl protein
and fiv- Y-ear      g aveaeeding in 1975 Pe.r mat recet estimae                              en-d 23 gr-n  of anima  Protein as a  avrag  for the wold, proposed by FAO
Crude deoth rat nr obcad  vrae-uos  datha per thowasd of mid-year                              in oho Third World Foo  Survy.
ooato;  o-ya  artemi  avrafe  ending in 1960 sod 1970 and fiv-                      Pee ' capta orti  c         rm nmlad pulse  - Frotnie supply of food
yea  aaog   ndn in~ 1971 fo  -oetrcet estimate,                                              derive  from anIal  end p1n.. in grees per day.
Inatmraiyrace f/thou) -       Inna deaths of infants under one year of age          Death rate fltbo   sane9. 1-4 - An- a  doatho per thootad to age grop 1-A
per thousndlive births.                                                                      yeare, to children io thi.ago gercup; suggeated aanindicator of
.ifo cetnoa  birth (oral - Aversge nmbar of years of life rosicing at                         malnutrition.
birth; ucosiy fiv-year avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
tgr.  =o dstrio                                                                             Educetion
lrncp Ionio  rate -  vA-rage  ,mb-r of lis deoghtera a  as    ill bear              odlute  nrolleectrai-ciarscol-Eolenofllgsaspr
tn he  torul rprodctiv  perod I ohs  nperenoe  prsenc  ge-secifc    ostsa  of pomary scolaeppltion  includes childr. cnnaad 6-11 years
crlIorat one  o-Ily fiv-yea  averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary edu..stion; foe countries with
for  evc~piugcoutris                                                                   unvra      ;dctmon, anrollnn  may emceed 100% alone s    Ppupls are bel1o
Popula.t io arco,rr  71-total - Compound annua  genth rataa of aid-yearor aboveth  oficial school age.
popuiscioc foe19-60 "'1960-70 and 17075.                                                   Adlusted enrel1met ratio - eecondarr school - Compared as abv; secondary
"ouat    growth rate (T    - urban - Conpored like grnoth rste of total                    education reguires at lesI      oryaso prvdpiayisrcin
ppuaI Ition  di fferant definitlom   of urban areas may affect tparsbility of                Proides genera,  -aaos  orI'   tesoh'a1r trining instructions for popln
data auong countries,                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 12 to 17 yearsr  of age; correPonene-orss1r gs .r.yeluded.
Urban p=eltion  M of total) - Ratio of urban to coral populattion; different                 Yasr of schooling eroidd (Cleat and second Jevle   - Total ysre ofI
deii.tions of orban .am  -y  affect caparsbility of daetsa*q  carries.                       somle; at aseendary level, v-etionel isateutin may bs Partially or
aesructur  (eercooi) - Childre  (0-14  er)*eukn-g  (11-64 years)                         Vonasianal erlamftof ascondary) - Fonational icatitutiosn  include
ond rerorad (65yaran  ovr) as.t po"tages ef aid-year papaslties.                              technical, indutrial or other progres ahith operate indapodently or as
ocr depnodoccy ratt   _R cui   fpptionfu.der 11 and 61 and ove  to these                       depsr- -t  of secondary  -inti-it_a
of agac 1) throuh 64.                                                                      Adu.lt literacy rate MT   - Litarote ado1ta (able to read and write) as per-
iccoicdaedrcyrai   - RatIo ot population under 15 and 61 and ovr tc                            ctnrge of total adult populatio   a ged 11 year  andaer
the labor furor  it age group of 15-64 years.
Fonilo olannicu-acceeroru (cunulatioc, thou) - Cmltio- comber of acceptors     Hoo-ing
of blrh-ccorol dor ce  onde  aus icco  f national fenily planning progran       Peroner roo  (urbat) - dcA-ne nunbr of per-our Per ron  e   opind
""o cPtin                                                                                covniona  dwellings in urbse areas; dec11itgs euc lode n-pe- -cn
folly Pelanic    - usrs f  of married oe)-Percenta-ges of -atied -cc  of                       stutrsad auoctddprs
child-beariog age (15-44 years) uhc.n  birth-control devicac to all married                f..uPied d_alinsa without ripd wacer (ZI  - Occupied  --cetional duslliugs
wome  Ic  sne  ge  roup.                                                                inorban sod rural areas. without inside or ourtide Piped aste  fa-ilitiss
Pluelovmoc                                                       6c0555 cc alectric~~~~~~~ito  to   l  anlna    C- footic...l dwellings with
loca1l.bshr forcc (thousand) - Fconomioally  -cio- persona, t-cuding armd                      alectr.ici1cyin livig quarters a  parcot of total dwe1litgn in orhan and
forces and uneployd.butexcluding hcusaion, stdents, et.  dofiritiooa                         trurl  res
ic oarioa. countries are nt conparable.                                                   Rua isliscnectad to electricit, CT-iputed as above for rura
Labor force In agrtlcotorT   -Agricultural labor force(to farming, forestY,                    dwlinsony
buooting and fiehiug) an percet.ge of coral labor forc.
tlnnoi"yd (.a  labor foce   - UinmplLyad.arc usualy defined as persons who                   togatto
are able sd wiklo   t   al    job, ou   fajbo     ivo  day, rsaind out                     Radio aevr  (eer thou asp) - All types  f r-ci-era for radio broadcasts
of s job, and aseking.work foe a specified miiamperiod not ....eding one                    to geneal public per thousand of population; excldes unlicensdreien
wash; maY oa  be comparable hstween coutries due to diff-rsa  definition                     in coutries and in years when registration of rsdioae.tswss in effect;
of  noplcynd sod source of dats, e.g.,  eptay5en  office statistics, se_ple                data far recent years may not bs coParable alca east countries abolished
_uvys   opulsory onenpicon-t inuaneicensing.
Passnge: ors ea  thou eon) - Passenge9r car  tcnprias mator cers sea rig
Inr=  "diatributio-Percenrage of prio-co i-rs  Ibo-h in osab end kind)                         lethnigt persona;  -eoldes obul...n.. hsarase sad military
recetod by  cchea  5%, riches  200%, Poorest 200, and poorest 40% at house-             -hbila..
holds.                                                                                     Electricity 2(kobvtne'r ca,p) - Annua  conamption of industrial,ce ia
pulcadprivate electricity in kilowatt hours Per capita, generally
Distrributin of laud oe -rhipe- Per-tccae   of iod owod by voalthieet 10%                      base.d on prudocrmt   data, sithout allasance far looses Ln grids hut alIn--
and poorest 10. of land owesoig fur importsoad ooporta of electricity.
NewaPrime .(be/vt1y ear use) - Per capita annal conomaption in kilagresa
Health sod Nctriti                                                                             estmedfe domestic Production Plus net LaPorts of newasprint.
Foai"nea esicia   - Population divided by umber of Prec ticing
pstanqulIfied froma,  meialahool a tuni-rstty leve.



Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant prices)
US$ Mln.    %       1961-65   1966-70  1971-75    1975-76
GNP at Market Prices               27,400    100.0       9.MP/       7.71/   11.3V       10.5-/
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmelnt   7,450      27.2      11.3        11.2      11.2        8.2
Gross National Saving               7,434      27.1      ..          ..        ..        10.1
Current Account Balance               -16       0.1          2/3/       2/3/      2/_/
Exports of Goods, NFS               6,504      23.7      9.0--    1092/3/ 23F'i    14 03/
Imports of Goods, NFS               6,447     23.5      10.7. -    12.7- -  22.3-l-    13.2./
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added         Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.     7       Mln.          7'    US $           7
Agriculture                          3.66      18.3     3.64        35.6    1,005        51.4
Industry                            11.18     55.9      3.27        31.9    3,419       174.9
Construction                         1.44       7.2     0.85         8.3    1,694        86.6
Other                                3.72      18.6     2.47        24.2    1,506        75.0
Total/Average                20.0      100.0    10.23       100.0    1,955        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1976
Central Government
Lei Billions         % of GDP
Total Receipts                  254.5               46.4
Total Expenditures              250.1               45.6
Total Surplus                     4.4                0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976
Money Supply                              ..        ..        ..      160.1    176.4    201.4
Short-term Bank Credit                     .        ..      131.3    155.3    170.2    194.0
Retail Prices (1970 = 100)               101.6    101.6    102.4    103.7    103.9    104.4
Percentage Changes in Retail  Prices       1.6     -          0.8       1.3      0.2       0.5
1/ Growth rate of national income.
2/ In current prices.
3/ Growth rates of exports and imports only.



Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1976
(All Currencies)
1971    1975      1976
(Millions US $)                           US $ Mln
Exports of Goods & NFS          +944   +3,105   +3,653   Capital goods           1,578      26
Imports of Goods & NFS          -988   -3,217   -3,592   Consumer goods          1,005      16
Resource Gap (deficit = _)       -44     -112       +61   Foodstuffs               596      10
Intermediate goods      508       8
Interest Payments                -40     -143      -122   Raw materials          2,450      40
Other Factor Payments (net)    -25         -5       0        Industrial          2,061      34
Balance on Current Account    -109       -260       -61      Agricultural          389       6
Direct Foreign Inystment                                        Total            6,137    100
Net MLT Borrowing-
Disbursements              +312      +859      +912   EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1977)
Amortization               -190      -370      -482
Subtotal                   +122      +489     +430                              US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended- (net)  2/        -41      -274
Short-term Credit (net)         -20      -162       -44   Total M & LT               3,266
Net Errors & Omission             -        -         -     of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)          -7      +26       +52    currencies                3,174
Fuel & Related Materials
Imports                      635.6  2,042.9  2,496.8  DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1976
of which Petroleum
Exports                      425.5  1,189.5  1,477.5                                     %
of which Petroleum         142.9    539.5
Convertible currencies only   17.4
EXCHANGE RATES                                             IBRD LENDING (January 31, 1978)
(US $ Million)
1.  Official Rate
Outstanding & Disbursed        297.1
Before August 1971           6 lei:US$l               Undisbursed                    440.7
August 1971-February 1973: 5.53 lei:US$1              Outstanding incl.
Since February 1973       : 4.97 lei:US$l               Undisbursed                  737.8
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971          : 18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973    16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974:  14.38 lei:US$1
Since October 1974          : 12 lei:US$l
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Since July 1973             :  20 lei:US$1
EMENA
March 1, 1978
1/ Includes use of IMF credit.
2/ Included in M & LT Capital.
3t/ Includes S, M & LT credits extended.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of January 31, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number        Year   Borrower            Purpose          Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully disbursed                                  20.0                      -
Ln. 1020-RO   1974   Investment Bank   Fertilizer         60.0                     21.3
Ln. 1027-RO   1975   Investment Bank   Special Steel   70.0                        27.6
Ln. 1028-RO   1975   Investment Bank   Thermal Power   60.0                         4.1
Ln. 1082-RO   1975   BAFIA"              Irrigation       70.0                     10.2
Ln. 1083-RO   1975   BAFI                Agricultural    30.0                      10.8
Credit
Ln. 1169-RO   1976   BAFI                Flood Recovery  40.0                       3.4
Ln. 1242-RO   1976   Investment Bank   Hydropower         50.0                     32.6
Ln. 1247-RO   1976   BAFI                Irrigation       60.0                     58.0
Ln. 1368-RO   1977   BAFI                Irrigation       60.0                     59.7
Ln. 1436-RO   1977   Investment Bank   Bearings           38.0                     38.0
Ln. 1447-RO   1977   Investment Bank   Glass Fiber        18.3                     15.0
Ln. 1448-RO   1977   Investment Bank   Polyester          50.0                     48.5
Ln. L479-RO   1978   BAFI                Agricultural    71.0                      71.0
Credit
Ln. 1509-RCr-  1978   BAFI               Irrigation       40.5                     40.5
Total                              737.8                   440.7
Of which has been repaid             -
Tota:L now outstanding             737.8
Amount sold            18.6          -
Of which repaid         0.0         18.6
Total now held by Banc0/           719.2
Total undisbursed                  440.7                   440.7
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/ Not yet effective.
c/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 1020      Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement is committed, and construction is well
advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commissioned by
June 1978, and the urea plant at the beginning of 1979, about 15 months
later than expected. The final project cost is expected to be close to the
appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027     Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:  April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was delayed several months, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages and because of the Romanians'
lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines. Progress on procurement has been closely monitored
by several Bank supervision missions, and US$50,000 allocated for procurement
consultants but not used was cancelled. The contracts for the two steel
mills under the loan have been signed and construction is progressing in
accordance with contracted schedules. Total project costs are expected to be
about US$20 million less than appraisal estimates, but this is not expected
to affect disbursement of the loan which is now fully committed for two main
supply contracts. Due in part to changes in exchange rates during 1977,
the loan amount is expected to be insufficient to cover the full costs of the
project despite the cost reduction noted above.
Ln No. 1028      Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are likely
to result in a five month delay in commissioning of generating units. Project
execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training of future
operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082     Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 75 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is 93 percent
completed. About half of the project area was irrigated during 1977. All
remaining works are expected to be completed by December 1977. Savings of
about US$25-30 million below original project cost estimates are expected,



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be cancelled if not
required for the project before the closing date.
Ln No. 1083      Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, will be carried out under bulk
contracts being tendered :Lnternationally for 1978 requirements by the Romanians.
About 80 percent of loan fEunds are committed.
Ln No. 1169      Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are ahead
of schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment. The
Romanians have advised us that bid evaluation has been delayed because of the
technical complexity of the package, but the Romanians are expected to submit
a bid evaluation report to the Bank in the near future.
Ln No. 1242     Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods are being investigated. Project execution is
according to plan. Civil works for the dam and underground power station are
well underway, and about 75 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247     Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Bids for all contracts were received during March 1977, and the
Bank has received bid evaluation reports for several contracts and have
approved contracts valued at about US$30 million. Facilities for four dairy
farms are nearing completion, and contracts for purchase of about 4,600 im-
ported heifers (50 percent of total) valued at over US$3 million have been
awarded. Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works
has begun and progress on these facilities is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln. No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and contracts for about
US$36 million have already been awarded. Construction of some project works
has begun.
Ln No. 1436      Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
First bidding documents were issued at the end of October, and
progress on procurement is satisfactory.
Ln No. 1447      Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Main supply contracts have been signed, and execution of the project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1448      Cimpulung Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  October 3, 1977;
Closing Date:   March 31, 1981.
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479      Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
BAFI has begun to make subloan commitments and tender documents for
three major contracts for construction materials have been approved by the
Bank.
Ln No. 1509      Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan was signed on January 27, and the deadline for its effec-
tiveness is April 27, 1978.
EMENA
March 1, 1978



ANNEX III
ROMANIA: TIRE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                     Unknown
(b)  Agency which prepared the Project:    Ministry of Chemical Industry
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of Bank mission to
consider the Project:                    February and May 1976
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                 June 27, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   January 18, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           June 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
There are two special conditions of disbursement for the tractor
and OTR tire plant at Drobeta-Turnu Severin. Loan funds will be disbursed:
(a)  for the off-the-road (OTR) tire section of the plant, only
after the contract with the supplier of technology and
engineering has been signed and shall have come into force
(para. 46);
(b)  for the plant in amounts in excess of US$6 million, only
after the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Tire Enterprise is established
and the Government has approved the technical and economic
indicators for this part of the project. The approval of
detailed project parameters is normal under Romanian planning
procedures and will provide the legal basis for implementation
and local financing for this part of the project. The Central
will assume all responsibilities of the enterprise until
the enterprise is established (para. 46).
EMENA
March 1, 1978






IBRO 13109
//'4 a  e' 6    ~ ;d 1E.-  a.,. -                                                                                                                      .      jW
ji  ji, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ .I                  ~       ,
M ;jli   J6rU' <;.1'     0i    to  i:Mn \  / i  @                         /                                                     /                       x V   A  A  U/N
\  /  SIBIU  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
2   Ai  tI t < l q t  PD'E" A 7   gNt
TOF ss-::



