CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1536 RO
Loan Agreement
(Tire Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated March 30, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1536 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA DE INVESTITI (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and
Decree No. 125/1970 concerning the organization and operations of
the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22/1970 of Romania, as amended
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, as
amended from time to time;
(d) "Zalau Enterprise" means the tire enterprise Zalau
established by Decree No. 413/1977 of the Council of State of
Romania;
(e) "Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise" means the tire enter-
prise Drobeta-Turnu Severin to be established by the Council of
State of Romania, and prior to its establishemnt "Drobeta-Turnu
Severin Enterprise" shall mean, for the purpose of this Agreement,
the Central for Rubber and Plastic Processing established by
Decree No. 162/1973 of the Council of State of Romania.


﻿-2-
(f) "IITPIC" means the Technological Engineering and Design
Institute for Chemical Industry established by Decree No. 22/1977,
which modifies Decree No. 531/1973, of the C:.incil of State of
Romania; and
(g) "ROMCHIM" means the foreign trade enterprise under
Romania's Ministry of Chemical Industry established by Decision
No. 1423/1970 of the Council of Ministers of Romania.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-five
million dollars ($85,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amourt of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which
the Bank and the Borrower have agreed are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization sThedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, ecological, environ-
mental and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefcr;
(b) IITPIC shall provide the general engineering services
required for the Project;
(c) ROMCHIM shall in accordance with the technical advice
received from IITPIC procure the goods and services required for
the Project and to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d) the Zalau Enterprise shall, in respect of Part A of the
Project, and the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise shall, in
respect of Part B of the Project:
(i) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, with
IITPIC for the supply of the general engineering


﻿-4-
services required for the Project, and with the
appropriate construction trusts of Romania as
required for the civil works an. erection included
in the Project;
(ii) in accordance with the technical assistance
received from IITPIC procure the goods and services
required for the Project other than those referred
to in the foregoing paragraph (c); and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of its respective Part of
the Project and for the coordination of the respec-
tive Project-related activities of the other
agencies of Romania.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary for
the Zalau Enterprise and the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise
each:
(i) to operate the facilities established under its
respective Part of the Project with due regard
to ecological, environmental and safety factors;
(ii) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures;


﻿-5-
(iii) to submit its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania;
(iv) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices and under
experienced and competent management, assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers;
(v) to be granted all such rights and interests in
land and all such other rights and powers as are
necessary in the management or operation of the
assets managed or operated by it;
(vi) at    11 times to operate and maintain the installa-
tions, equipment and other property managed or
operated by it, including all structures con-
structed and machinery installed under the Project,
and, as and when required, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with appropriate administrative and engineering
practices;
(vii) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, not to transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of the assets managed or operated by it except in
the normal course of its business; and
(viii) to ensure that in any year after 1980 in the case
of the Zalau Enterprise and after 1982 in the case
of the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise the sum of
the annual benefits of each such Enterprise and the
annual provision for depreciation of each such
Enterprise shall be at least sufficient to cover
the sum of (A) the equivalent in Lei of the pay-
ments of the principal of, and charges on the Loan
other than interest on, the portion of the Loan
which has been withdrawn for the benefit of each
such Enterprise and which the Borrower is required
to make to the Bank that same year and (B) ten per


﻿-6-
cent of the average principal amount of the portion
of the Loan which has been withdrawn for the
benefit of each such Enterprise And is outstanding
that same year; for the purposes of this paragraph
(viii), the term "Lei" means Lei in currency of
Romania, the term "annual benefits" means the
difference between gross revenues and operating and
administrative expenses (including adequate provi-
sion for maintenance and depreciation) accountable
to any one fiscal year.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under
the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in
this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive and financial standards and practices and in accordance with
the Charter.
Section 5.02-.- The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Zalau
Enterprise and the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall cr,ate the lien,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall be
created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank,
an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan.


﻿-7-
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carry-
ing out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take
such measures as shall be necessary according to the State Plan
of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the
request of either party exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the compliance by the Zalau
Enterprise and the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise with the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, the compliance by
ROMCHIM with the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
exchange views with representatives of each such Enterprise with
regard to the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the
resources and expenditures of such Enterprise and the compliance
by such Enterprise with the requirements set forth in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and with representatives of the Romanian
tire industry with regard to the benefits of the Project to the
Romanian economy and the position of each such Enterprise in such
industry;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from each such Enterprise and
the other agencies of Romania concerned with the Project, and
furnish to the Bank, upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and the material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and


﻿-8-
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
manufactured from materials or components financed out of such
proceeds, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days after
each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the
Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, plants, installations, sites, works, buildings and equipment
of each such Enterprise, the factories, installations, sites and
works in Romania where goods required for the Project are manufac-
tured insofar as the Project is concerned, the other facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and the records and
documents of each such Enterprise insofar as they concern the
Project and the other records and documents relating to the
Project;
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of each such
Enterprise: (i) obtain from each such Enterprise and furnish to
the Bank not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and re.Lated statements)
of such Enterprise for such year audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.01 (iii) of this Agreement, and (B) the
report of such audit by the auditors referred to in said Section
4.01 (iii) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank when necessary
such other info' ;iation concerning the accounts and financial
statements of each such Enterprise and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than three months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank. and the Borrower) for such fiscal year
submitted to an independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditor of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank when
necessary such other information concerning the beforementioned
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall reasonably request;


﻿-9-
(g) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such Ldditional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the position of each such Enterprise, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds, the operations, resources and expenditures of each
such Enterprise, the benefits derived from the Project and the
general status of the Loan; and
(h) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than March 31, 1983, or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
reasonably agree, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or Threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either party of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date June 29, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145  (WUI)
For the Borrower:                       Telex:
Banca de Investitii                     011238 BINVR
Str. Doamnei No. 4                      011239 BINVR
Bucharest                               011188 BINVR
Romania
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By Is/ Nicolae M. Nicolae
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage ol
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Off-the-road                28,000,000        100% of foreign
tire technology                              expenditures
and engineering
(including licen-
ses, knowhow and
technical assis-
tance) and equip-
ment and spare
parts and train-
ing for Drobeta-
Turnu Severin
Enterprise
(2) Other tire manu-
facturing equip-
ment and components
for such equipment
and spare parts for:
(a) Zalau Enterprise       18,000,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Drobeta-Turnu          16,700,000       100% of foreign
Severin Enter-                         expenditures
prise
(3) Materials and com-
ponents for the
local manufacture
of machinery for:


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(a) Zalau Enter-            4,000,000        100% of foreign
prise                                    expenditures
(b) Drobeta-Turnu           1,000,000        100% of foreign
Severin Enter-                          expenditures
prise
(4)  Curing molds for
tires, inner tubes,
flaps and bags,
presses for inner
tubes and trans-
port systems for
finished products
for:
(a) Zalau Enter-           15,000,000        100% of foreign
prise                                   expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(b) Drobeta-Turnu           2,300,000        100% of foreign
Severin Enter-                          expenditures and
prise                                   100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
TOTAL       85,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such
taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) Category (1) until a contract, satisfactory to the Bank
and the Borrower, for technology and engineering (including
licenses, knowhow and technical assistance) relating to the items
to be financed from Category (1) has been signed and is effective
in accordance with its terms; and
(c) Category (1) in amounts in excess of $4,000,000 equiv-
alent, Category (2) (b) in amounts in excess of $2,000,000
equivalent and Categories (3) (b) and (4) (b) until the Bank has
been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank (including
an opinion of competent legal authority in Romania) that: (A) the
Council of State of Romania has duly approved the technical and
economic indicators for Part B of the Project and such approval
has become effective, and (B) the Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise
has been duly established; and, in connection with both of the
foregoing, the Bank has dispatched to the Guarantor and the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of such evidence.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to


﻿- 14 -
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
For the further development of its tire industry, Romania is
establishing two new tire manufacturing plants - one at Zalau and
one at Drobeta-Turnu Severin which may be expanded as provided in
its future development plans. The Project consists of the erection
and commissioning of two tire manufacturing plants as follows:
Part A (Zalau Enterprise):
Establishment of a new tire manufacturing plant at Zalau with
a yearly production capacity of one million all-steel radial truck
tires including facilities for unloading and storage of raw
materials and for storage of finished products. This Part of the
Project is expected to start production by January 1, 1980.
Part B (Drobeta-Turnu Severin Enterprise):
Establishment of a new tire manufacturing plant at Drobeta-
Turnu Severin with a yearly production capacity of 150,000 tractor
tires and 20,000 off-the-road tires including facilities for
unloading and storage of raw materials and for storage of finished
products. This Part of the Project is expected to start production
by January 1, 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1981
through   November 15, 1992                 3,540,000
On May 15, 1993                                  3, 580,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.45%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.45%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part A, goods
and services shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods covered by Categories 2 and 3 in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement which cannot be grouped
together in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Part A and which
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent shall, after
solicitation of bids from potential suppliers from at least three
member countries of the Bank and Switzerland on the basis of bid
invitations consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines, be
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.4
through 3.11 of the Guidelines unless this would be impractical
for technical reasons, in which event the items involved shall be
procured by prudent shopping, provided the aggregate amount of
contracts let pursuant to the procedures permitted by this para-
graph 2 shall not exceed $3,000,000 equivalent.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall be
subject to agreement between the Bank and the borrower.
4.   Bidders are required to prequalify in accordance with
criteria agreed between the Bank and the Borrower in respect of
goods covered by Categories 1, 2 and 4 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by ROMCHIM to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified and ROMCHIM shall make such additions to
or deletions from such list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 20 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid
from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMCHIM shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a list
of prequalified bidders to whom the invitations to bid will be
sent, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, ROMCHIM shall
inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, ROMCHIM shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ROMCHIM and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 21 -
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to Lie Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, ROMCHIM shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with a list of the parties invited to bid or to submit
quotations, the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award or, if a single offer is solicited, the reasons why a
single offer was solicited and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the Enterprise
involved and state the reasons for such determination.


