Report No 363a-LSO                                                               FILE                "'
Appraisal of an                                                                           itrOY
Education Project
in Lesotho
June 14, 1974
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Developrnent
[nternationat Development Association
This report was prepared tor otficial use onlh by the Bank Group It may not
be published quoted or cited without Bank Group authorizatiom The Bank Group does
no accept responsibilit) for the accuracy or coMpletener5 of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
uS$1                        o 0.67 Rand (R)
Rand (R) 1        =US$1.5
MEASURES
1 Yile (mi)                 1.6093 Kilometers
1 Acre (ac)       =0.4047 Hectares
GOVElTh   OF LESOTlIO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................       i-v
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................        1
II.  DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS                 1
Socio-Economic Background.                            1
Economic Development.                                 2
Human Resources Needs.                                2
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR.                    4
Evaluation of the Sector.                            4
Education Policy, Strategy and Plans                  5
Investment Programs.                                 6
.V. THE PROJECT.                                           8
Objectives.                                           8
The Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI)               8
Lesotho Institute of Business and
Administration (LIBA) .10
Lesotho National Extension College (LNEC)            10
Improvement of General Secondary Education           12
Staff Development .12
This report is based on the findings of a mission in October 1973 to Lesotho
composed of Messrs. R. Loken and G. Sinclair of the Bank, W.L. Taylor of
Unesco, and J.C. Jones, consultant.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
t.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT .....  ............   13
Cost Estimates ........   .......................  13
Financial Plan ...            ...............     16
Implementation .............,.............        18
Procurement ........    ..........................  19
Disbursement ........    .........................  20
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    ..............  20
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .......  22
APPENDIXES
1.  The Education and Training System
2.  Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Middle Level Manpower - Stock, Requirements and Supply, 1973-1985
3.  The General Education System, 1972
4.  Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditures and Enrollments, 1970-1973
5.  Education Plan - Enrollment Projections and Expenditures
6.  Capacity and Staff of Project Schools
7.  Summary of Estimated Project Cost
8.  Financing Plan
9.  Technical Assistance/Project Unit - Financing Plan
10.  IDA-financed Component
11.  Schedule of Disbursement
12.  Credit and Project Summary
CHARTS
1.  Educational Pyramid - 1972                            World Bank 8190
2.  Structure of Education - 1973                         World Bank 8189
3.  Administrative Structure of Education - 1973          World Bank 8188
4.  Implementation Schedule
HAP
Key to Map



THlE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
BASIC DATA - 1973
Population                                           1.2 million
Population growth rate                               2.2% p.a.
Wage employment                                      21,OOO
Enployment of Basotho in South Africa               200,000
Education Enrollments
Primary Schools (Grades 1-7)                    190,700
Ratio of enrolled to age group 6-12             65%
Secondary Schools (Forms I-V)                   L2,5X00
Ratio of enrolled to age group 13-18             8%
Bpecialized Post-Secondary (non-university)
School                                          1,030
Ratio of enrolled to age group 18-20             1.0%
Higher Education                                   200
Ratio of those enrolled to age group 18-22       0.1%
Expenditures (1972-1973)
Ministry of Education recurrent expenditure      PQ.7 million
as a percentage of total Government
expendibare                            22%
as a percentage of GNP                       4.8%






GLOSSARY
Canadian International Development Agency.
0050        Cambridge Overseas School Certificate granted after passing
twelfth grade examination.
CSTC        Civil Service Training Center, an in-service training facility
for civil service employees.
FTC         Farmer Training Centers, institutions providing training for
farmers and youths.
IEC         International Extension College, a private educational service
institution based, in England-supported by private donors, the
Ford Foundation, e3tc.
JOU         Junior Certificate granted after passing the tenth grade
examination.
LAO         Lesotho Agricultural College, a two-year, post-lower secondary
institution which grants certificates in agriculture and
domestic science.
LIBA        Lesotho Institute oS Business and Administration, a new two-
year, post-secondary institute to train personnel for business,
management and the civil service.
LNEC        Lesotho National Extension College, a new institution to
administer the adult education program.
LTI         Lerotholi Technical Institute, a three-year, post-lower secondary
vocational training institute and a three-year, post-secondary
technician school.
I.UE        Ministry of Education.
NTC         Nationial Teachers College, a three-year, post-lower secondary
teacher training college.
ODA         Overseas Development Admi-nistration, the UK agency directing
the UK international aid program. (Now: the Ministry of
Overseas Development.)
UBLS        The University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland, a four-year,
university with campuses in all three countries.
USAID       The United States Agency for International Developmierit which
directs the US international aid program.
YTC         Youth Training Center, a center for training post-lower secondary
youth in vocational skills.






LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project ina  esotho for which
an IDA credit of US$4.0 million equivalent is proposed.
ii.       Lesotho's education anc training sector features:  (a) comparatively
high enrollment ratios at the primary level because of the considerable
assistance formal education has xeceived from missionary societies for almost
150 years; (b) numerous, but disconnected programs of rural learning; (c) a
well-conceived scheme for education and training of high level manpower
through the tri-national University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UELS).
On the other hand, the large autonomy enjoyed by the mission schools has not
favored the development of a cohesive education plan and the system fails to
meet clearly defined manpower needs of the monetary sector of the economy:
lack of administrative and technical capacity, especially at thre middle level,
has been and is a major constraint to the preparation and execution of invest-
ment programs and has limited Lesotho's capacity to absorb the foreign aid
made available by bilateral and multilateral donors. In addition, the system
is characterized by outmoded curricula, inadequate pedagogical training of
about half of the teachers and insufficient coordination among agencies and
programs involved in non-formal education for rural development. Finally, as
education and training, both public and private, absorbs already some 6% of
GNP and 22% of the Government budget, additional resources for future expansion
and improvement are extremely limited and, therefore, funds must be carefully
husbanded in order to obtain maximum development impact from their deployment.
iii.      Since Independence in 1966, the Government has taken several
measures to acquire greater academic and administrative control of the
mission schools as a prerequisite to the development of long-term educatnolm L
policies and strategies consistent with the country's needs.  In particular,
the Government has accepted an increasing share of the financial burden for
education by paying grants-in-aid to mission schools and the salaries of all
qualified teachers. To reduce costs, it has decided to shorten the primary
education cycle. To assist policy formulation and planning, it has conducted
several studies of various levels and types of education and carried out
surveys of manpower requirements; studies and surveys have received assisr-
ance from bilateral agencies, such as the British ODA, US-AID, the German
Foundation for Developing Countries, and the American Council of Educatiorn
and have culminated in an overall sector review by a UNESCO-ILO education
policy and planning mission in August 1973.  The Government educatiorn plan
and the present project stem from these studies. The plan gives priority to.
(a) the improvement and expansion of technical, vocational, commercial,
agricultural, and teacher education; (b) the control of growth ir, enrollments
and the reorientation of secondary education towards a more practical conzent;



- 4. -
and (c) the phased development of a rural and adult education program in line
with staff availability and improved inter-ministerial coordination.  Some
elements of this program (e.g., the expansion and improvement of the National
Teachers College and the Tlesotho Agricultural College) are under implementation
with assistance from the UK, Denmark and UNDP.
iv.       Accordingly, the proposed project would assist:  (a) the expansion
and improvement of vocational, technical and commercial education; (b) the
establishment of an extension college for continuiing education of adults;
(c) the introduction of practical su6jects and of non-formal programs for
youths and adults in. secondary schools; and (d) staff development for the
preparation of future programs and projects. It would consist of:
(a) The Provision of Educational Facilities:
.3uildings, furniture and equipment for:
-    the existing Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI) for
vocational and technical training to permit expansion
from the present enrollment of 120 to 360;
-    the new Lesotho Institute of Business and Administration
(LIBA) for commercial, administrative and financial
training to provide places for 200 students;
-    the new Lesotho National Extension College (LNEC) for
continuing education of 4,000 to 5,000 adults;
-    six existing secondary schools for the introduction of
a new and broader curriculum, to provide satellite
regional centers for the LNEC and 1,000 additional
student places.
(b)  The Provision of Technical Assistance:
The cost of 25 specialists (79 man-years) and 48 fellowships
(80 man-years) for staff development, introduction of new
programs, preparation of a rural education scheme and project
implementation.
The capacity of the project schools would increase from about 2,000 students
to about 3,300 students as expansion would be geared to well-identified man-
power needs and the entire program would take account of present and projec-
ted constraints in terms of instructors' availability and recurrent finance.
T'hese figures do not Include part-time and short-course ?rograms; it is
estimated the non-formal programs promoted by the project would have an
attendance of some 4,000 to 5,000 p.a. doubling the present number of adults
attending non-formal education courses in Lesotho.



- iii -
v.        As the education strategy and the proposed project include major
reforms, the Government has confirmed its intention to establish an education
ev7aluation committee within one year of sigring of the Credit Agreement to
evaluate the effectiveness of the reforms on a continuing basis and recommend
changes and improvements in the programs as required. The committee will
include staff from the Ministries of Education and Planning and other relevant
agencies, ar.d its draft plan of operation will be forwarded to the Association
for comments within 18 months from signing of the Cred? t Agreement.
vi.       The LTI is the only industrial vocational training institution in
Lesotho and its present output (about 30 p.a.) meets merely one-tenth of the
estimated annual needs for industrial skilled workers and technicians. Expan-
sion and improvement assisted by the project would increase full-time enroll-
ment from 120 to 360, provide for in-service training of some 200 workers p.a.
already in employment, add new offerings to the range of courses and estab-
lish a technician training program. In view of the crucial importance of
the LTI for Lesotho's development, the Federal Republic of Germany, the UK,
and the Goldfield Mining Corporation 1/ have expressed interest in financing
discrete elements of the comprehensive program for the improvement of the in-
stitution prepared by the Government with ILO and World Bank staff assistance.
To derive maximum benefit from the proposed improvements, the Govermment plans
to appoint a Consultative Committee for the LTI with employers' participation.
The Government confirmed that the Committee will be established within one
year of signing of the Credit Agreement.
vii.      The LIBA would be the only institution for preparing employees for
clerical, commercial and administrative occupations; there are 8,000 persons
employed in these fields, and approximately 200 institutionally tra'ned middle
level employees will be required eachi year.  LIBA would provide facilities for
200 full-time students and approximately 100 in evening and Saturday courses.
Emphasis would 'e placed on courses in management, bookkeeping and accounting
practices. LIBA would include two sections, catering respectively for the
private sector and for the civil service. The 'UK has already agreed to assist
LIBA's section for civil service training according to the plans for the
Institute prepared by the Government with technical advice from ILO, the
American Council of Education and W4orld Bank Group staff. The Government
confirmed that the administrators of both sections will be responsible to one
principal.
viii.     At present, because of inadequate ±nter-ministerial coordination,
only limited assistance in thle area of adult and rural education can be
contemplated in spite of the need for developing programs directed to the
improvement of skills and attitudes of the agricultural population and to
the special requirements of women and youngsters who perforr., mst of the
farming and herding functions as over half of the adult ma'les work and live
in the neighboring Republic of South Africa. In particular, the project
would provide technical assistance for the evaluation of existing prograns
1/   The Goldfield Mining Corporation is a So'uL-t African mining company which
operates in thie RepuDlic a few miles from tne Lesotho border.



-v
and the preparation of a nationwide rural education scheme; during negotia-
:iOzS, agreement was reached with the Government that a draft program for
such a scheme would be forwarded to the Association for comments by June 30,
1?77 and that an inter-ministerial Rural Development Council will be formed.
In addition, the project would improve the effectiveness of educational broad-
casting, evening courses carried out in secondary schools and correspondence
courses, by helping establish the L-esotho Natiornal Extension College (LNEC).
The LNEC would be patterned after the successful experie-aces of the Inter-
national Extension College (IEC) of Cambridge, UK, in other African countries.
The IEC would provide technica'l assistance to the LNEC which would make use of
correspondence courses, tape-recordings and broadcasting.
ix.       Staff limitations preclude a larger program to introduce practical
subjects in secondary schools. Six schools (about 10% of the total number of
secondary schools in the country) have been selected for this initial phase
wghich would be evaluated with a view to making the necessary adjustments be-
fore expanding the program. The schools would be strategically located to
test their relevance to differing ecological areas and would be used as satel-
lite centers for the LNEC in rural areas. Within this context, they would
offer non-formal courses in addition to their regular programs; the non-formal
courses would place emphasis on nutrition and rural skills as women are expected
to make up over half of the participants. The Government provided assurances
that, within one year of signing of the Credit Agreement, draft syllabi for
the secondary schools will be sent to the Association for comments and that
the requir,d teachers of practical subjects will be recruited and in training.
x.        The successful implementation of Lesotho's education strategy and
of the proposed project require a major program of staff development and
technical assistance to: (i) strengthen and upgrade the staff of the Ministry
of Education (9 man-years of specialist services); (ii) supply administrators
and specialist teachers for the project institutions and the training of their
local counterparts (63 man-years of specialist services and 80 man-years of
fellowships); and (iii) provide key-personnel to the project implementation
unit who, in addition to overseeing implementation of the project, would help
establish an effective school building unit and assist in standardizing and
making more economical educational facilities (7 man-years of specialist
services).
xi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.14 million
equivalent and the foreign exchange component at US$5.00 million or 61% of
the total project cost. This high percentage is the result of the large
technical assistance element of the project (29% of the total project cost)
whicil in turn reflects the present lack of skills in the country. The
Association would assist in financing discrete elements of the project
estimated to cost US$5.03 million of which the Government of Lesotho would
finance US$1.03 million. This figure includes US$0.3 million of taxes. Bi-
lateral donors - the Federal Republic of Germany, the UK, Canada, the Inter-
national Extension College and the Goldfield Mining Corporation - would
finance the remaining elements of the project and most of the technical
assistance requirements.



v
xii.      A Project Unit is being established in the Ministry of Education
to oversee project implementation. The Project Unit would be assisted by an
architect/engineer from the Ministry of Works to assist in coordination and
liaison with the architectural consultants who would design the project schools.
To avoid delays in project implementation, the appointment of a full-time
Project Director and the selection of architectural consultants preceded credit
negotiations. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that: (i) the Accountant and Procurement Specialist will be selected in con-
sultation with the Association; and (ii) the Ministry of Works will provide
the Project Unit with assistance for the coordination and liaison with the
consultants.  Finally, the establishment of the Project Unit and the appointment
of the consultants on terms and tonditions acceptable to the Association would
be conditions of effectiveness ol the Credit Agreement.
xiii.     The benefits expected from the project are:  (a) improved supply
of skilled personnel from local institutions in fields directly related to
economic development; (b) reorientation of secondary education curricula
toward a more practical content; (c) use of facilities and resources at the
disposal of the education system in support of rural development. These
expected benefits point to the suitability of the project as a part of the
overall Lesotho strategy which is directed to improving and expanding the
country's infrastructure, increasing agricultural productivity and extending
the government's capability to prepare and administer development programs
and projects.
xiv.      Award of contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment, jointly
financed by the Lesotho Government and the Association, will be consistent
with the World Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for civil works will not
require review by the Association prior to award unless they exceed US$150,000
equivalent. Contracts for furniture, books, and instructional equipment will
not require review by the Association prior to award unless they exceed
US$20,000 equivalent up to an aggregate total of US$100,000 eqxuivalent. Pro-
curement of the goods and services financed by the bilateral donors will
follow the policies and practices of these organizations which can be expected
to lead to reasonable costs.
xv.       IDA assistance (US$4.0 million equivalent) would meet about 49% of
the total project cost and about 80% of the cost elements of the project
jointly financed by the Association and the Kingdom of Lesotho.  Retroactive
financing is recommended for the services of consultant architects and for
Project Unit expenses. Assistance from bilateral donors (US$3.11 million
equivalent) would cover 38% of the total project cost.  Implementation of
the project would be completed within about four years.
xvi.      Subject to the conditions in paras 7.01-7.02, the project is suit-
able as a basis for a Development Credit of US$4.0 million equivalent to the
Kingdom of Lesotho.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Lesotho became independent in 1966. Since then, the Government has
made considerable progress in gaining administrative and academic control of
the educational system previously characterized by a very large number of
mission schools.  In the last two years, the Government has conducted several
studies of the system and has developed a long-term educatiornl plan which
includes major reforms. The proposed education project would help implement
selected aspects of this plan: specifically, it would assist in the expansion
and improvement of technical, vocational, and commercial progrAms, in the
establishment of an extension college for adult education, in the int-roduction
of a new and more practical curriculum in secondary schools, it, the start of
a nationwide rural education scheme, and in the retraining and upgrading o,
Ministry of Education personnel.
1.02      Following a request from the Government for Bank assistance in
May 1973, a Bank/Unesco reconnaissance mission visited Lesotho in June 1973.
In October-November 1973, the project proposals were prepared by the Govern-
ment with assistance of a mission composed of Messrs. R. Loken (general edu-
cator), G. Sinclair (architect) of the Bank and Messrs. W.L. Taylor (economist,
Unesco) and J.C. Jones (technical educator, consultant). The mission simulta-
neously appraised the project.
.I. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
2.01      Socio-Economic Background. Lesotho is a small landlocked agri-
cultural country situated in the southern tip of Africa. Its 11,700 square
miles support a population of about one million, 1/ 85% of whom live in the
rural areas and derive their livelihood from farming. The population is
growing at 2.2% p.a. Although only 13% of the country is suitable for crop
cultivation, rural activities contribute 60% of the GDP. Services (35%),
and manufacturing, mining and construction (5%) account for the remainder.
2.02      Pressure on the land, primitive methods of cultivation and uncon-
trolled grazing have led to serious erosion problems and it is estimated zhaL
Lesotho may become unsuitable for cultivation within two or three generations.
Lack of financial resources and planning and administrative capacity have been
major constraints to the implementation of a comprehensive agricultural
policy to cope with these problems.  Agricultural technicians and extensioL
workers at various levels have been in extremely short supply making it ditf
ficult to organize an effective information dissemination service to the
rural population.  Another major obstacle to improved cultivation and animal
1/   The citizens of Lesotho (the Basotho) are estimated at 1.2 million, ixU.
some 200,000 of them work and live in the neighboring Republic of South
Africa.  The resident population, therefore, is about one million.



-2-
husbandry has been the lack of a scheme to deve'Lop the farming skills of
women and young people required to work on the land in the absence of about
175,000 adult males employed in thae Republic of South Africa. In spite of
the comparatively high literacy rite (40% of adult population) due to TChe
long tradition of missionary educaition, the education/training sector of
Lesotho has only recently addressed itself to the specific needs of this
female and youtha population.
2.03      Apart 'from its soi l, Lesotho has few other knowm natural resources.
The only abundant natural assets are water and beautiful scenery; neilther has
been exploited.  There is also some diamond mining. A major prcJect, known
as the PNalibDamatso River Scheme, is being considered to suppl.y water to the
Republic of South Africa.  Foreign tourist enterprises have plans to build
resorts in the mountains.  The recent investment code has begun attracting
manufacturing.  These developments need to be supported by an improvement of
the transportation and public utilities infrastructure calling for the avail-
ability of local skilled workers.
2.04      Economic Development.  The per capita income of the resident popula-
tion is some US$100 equivalent (Annex 1).  Lesotho's first Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (1970-1975) defines the Government's priorities as follows:  (a)
increased productivity of agriculture and improved incomes in rural areas;
(b) expanded production and wage employment opportunities through exploita-
tion of natural resources and the growth of small industry and commerce; and,
(c) improved access to social services. The first three years of the plan
period fell behind expectations, partly because of the lack of (i) adminis-
trative and technical manpower to prepare and implement projects, and (ii)
financial resources to complement available foreign assistance and meet
induced recurrent expenditures. For these reasons, Lesotho has been unable
to absorb all the external aid made available to it.
2.05      However, in 1972 the Government's financial position improved con-
siderably as a result of a new customs and excise agreement with the Republic
of South Africa which added R8.0 million p.a. to the Government revenue and
brought the Lotal to approxirmately R20.0 million in 1973-74. This has left
a substantial balance for capital expenditures and the Government has launched
three large agricultural projects, one of which, the Thaba Bosiu Project, is
assisted by IDA. These projects are expected to accelerate the process of
rural development. Other programs under preparation aim at: (a) improving
animal husbandry; (b, extending the road system in the middle and highland
regions; (c) exploiti2ig mineral and water resources; (d) expanding the supply
of low-income housiag; aad (e) promoting trade, tourism and industry. As
ir.dizateQ in paraS. 2.02 a-n;d 2.03, t:hese programs will call for an expanded
;upply of traln.ed high and middle level manpower, for appropriate measures
to mobilize human resources in rural areas, and for improvement of the skills
and attitudes of thae farming and herding population.
2.06     HFalan Resources Needs. Labor and employment present special fea-
tureA  h- ch make Lesotho different from other African counltries:  (a) 60E'% of
the adult male labor force is employed out of the country; (b) the relative



-3-
absence of villages or towns makes the family the operative rural unit; and
(c) because of the scarcity of adult men, women play a major role in farming,
marketing, and national affairs in general.
2.07      Comprehensive statistics on the size, distribution and growth of
Lesotho's labor force are not available. By extrapolating figures gathered
through the 1966 census, the total labor force is estimated at some 450,000
persons, 290,000 men and 160,000 women. As stated in para. 2.02, three-fifths
of the men find employment in the Republic of South Africa, mostly as unskilled
laborers in the mining and agricultural sectors. Although their remittances are
equivalent to some 20% of GNP, these workers have little opportunity for
self-improvement. Further, it is feared that with increasing mechanization
of the mines, the employment of Basotho in the Republic of South Africa will
level off. Great emphasis is therefore laid upon employment creation at
home and the current plan foresees that domestic wage employment in the
modern sector will increase from 21,000 in 1972 to 32,000 in 1980. However,
there is no doubt that many Basotho will, continue to seek work in the Republic
of South Africa for many years to come. It is well established that the
earnings of skilled migrant workers are significantly higher than those of
unskilled labor.
2.08      About 1,100 of the 21,000 employed for wages in 1972 were expatriates
occupying high and middle level categories of employment. As many as 50% of
wage earners with degrees or diplomas are non-citizens. One-fourth of the
expatriates living in Lesotho are managers, and one-fifth are teachers.
"Localization" has become an area of major concern.
2.09      A manpower survey conducted in 1971 by ODA and a study carried out
by ILO in 1973 show that training requirements at the higher level are esti-
mated at 200-250 p.a. in the immediate future. These requirements can be met
through fellowships abroad, and through the University of Botswana, Lesotho
and Swaziland (U3LS) which is in the process of expanding. The surveys also
indicate that manpower shortages are particularly acute at the middle and
skilled worker levels (Annex 2) where needs have to be met by national institu-
tions. At least 50 technicians and 150-200 skilled workers p.a. must be
institutionally trained to permit the planned improvement in infrastructure
(para. 2.03); the present training capacity is for 30 skilled workers p.a. and
technician training has just started in provisional facilities. Expansion
of tourism, commerce and other services requires at least 200 bookkeepers,
accountants, and clerical workers p.a.; available facilities cater for some
70 students p.a, and are reserved for government employees. Unless these
constraints are removed, Lesotho will be unable to implement its development
strategy and its capacity to absorb foreign aid will continue to be extremely
limited (para 2.04).
2.10      In spite of the expected growth in employment in the modern sectors,
the Government recognizes that even by the end of the next decade, over 50%
of the labor force will earn its livelihood on the land. A recent study of
the country's agricultural sector shows that improvement of credit, marketing
and extension services to the farming population is urgently needed to increase
productivity and to control erosion. The study also indicates that such an



-4-
improvelientc m-Lst oe supported by the provision. cIF training related to the
farraers at nrl     a  eared to a araduaL l mOderraz-tion of th2ir atM1 tiud es.
Final1y, the Sh  scetSOreS that improved inter-ministerial eoou eration
is a orerequisiti- ' or cevelo0ing a scheme to make m- re productive use of -he
existing rural aevelopMnart faciUitiLes anLd services suc1 as extension persormel,
community develoUp.ienar programs, farmiier training centers  the youthl rai44ning
center, health a-nd n tri tion centers, prinmary andi secondary schools.
2.11       In sumnia:y, a pl-anned progr-an of hmmtn -. resources developm.nz IS
fundamenta  to t1he successful imple-maentation of LeSsoctho's developmient policies.
To this en(,!, t-he Government is developinng a ionsn-te-rF  progral ah4ich takes i.tO
account the count-L-  s de'endence o'n agriculture, 9he inadequacies cf thL. ex-
isting educaL ton systerM  .pTesent and. expected finanicial limitationsl, the
urgent needs for trained manpower especially at tne _ middle level, and the
requirements for making more effective use of present and future edcational
services for tLe n~ral Iopulat ion.
I I    -f7E EDUCATION  AND TRAIENING SECTOR
3.01       Evaluation of tee Sector T Lesotho's education arnd training sector
is described irn Appendix I and basic data are provieded in Annex ` anrd Ch.arts
1, 92 and 3.  Enrollment at the primary level is equivalent to 65% of the rele-
vant age group (6-12 years) and, at the secondary level (13-18 years)i to 8%.
Inequalities in educational opportunities, althioiAgh still existirng Li tne
more remote anid r.ountainous region- s, are consi derabl<y  ess significant tian
in many other African countries.  Gi rls outnumber boys in primary enrolLment
(60% to 40%/s) principally because boys are required to perform  f arming end
herding activities.  Despite the comparatively high level of enrollrrment rstios,
the system has serious weaknesses whlch affect iCs abiiAty to meet urgent maa-
power requirements and lonig-term socio-economic needs,
3. 02      'The large mjeasure of autonomy enjoyed by the mission ,chools (see
Appendix 1, para. 13 haz not favored the developm ent of educacion accord'ing to
a well-conceived plan_ during the period 1963-1973 primary enrollment,
increasing at 2.5% p.a., was barely keepi-ng pace with population growth, but
enrollment in secondary schools was expanding at about 25% p.a.  The uncheaked
expansion of a general secondary education having little relevance to the
countrv's socio-economic needs, has p-laced. an increasing burden on nationa.l
income and pubic.  irnance.  Total expenditures fo-r ecduation absorbeA  o-er
6% of GNP ana 2.<%o    Gov" niment recurrent expenditure went to edAcanion iL
197'2/73.  fu rtloer,lore, tle 1i:mited financi'l resources have not beea cn a"ne led
toward the 1ixm        '-or-Q-i-s of the sector; a  .  reconear57 anld  -eVq  Z.3' 
educatiort ziou ra   Zor           0 of' pubi'? c:  end  Uro on edueat:ion ar_ f r ining
wlhile only 3.' 'o' 3   b;    axpkier;dLture on ecducatiun ls oirectcd to te-  tLrt.'-
tion oF badly ii½ed.m:nide .evel .manpower in tecoz1ncal f ields (zAiianzx 4),
3.03       The system is not only unable to mi2ee'e- n.e clearly defined manpower
needs of trhe monet,ry sec-or of the economy f?Ut -;s also constrained by outraoded
and inappropriate curricula, *i:nacdecluate pedagogIcal traininlg of almost half



- 5 -
of the pri nary and secondary school teachers anid a lack of furniture and
equipment .-or classrooms, laboratories and workshops; for instance, only some
65% of primary school pupils have desks and chairs. The content of education
is overly literary and ill-adapted to the cultural and development needs of
the country; social studies related to Lesotho's cultural heritage and prac-
tical subjects relevant to the country's agricultural environment have not
been part of the regular school programs.
3.04      Insufficient efforts have been made to provide a well-coordinated
and effective program of training for adults in agricultural practices, rural
skills, nutrition, and hygiene or to prepare primary school leavers (about
10,000 p.a.) for self-employment, even though expenditures in these areas
by the Ministry of Educatiorx have increased by nearly three times in the last
two years. Recently, education and training components directly geared to
the farming population have been included as a part of integrated rural devel-
opment projects, as in the IDA-assisted Thaba Bosiu Project. In addition, the
Government plans to revitalize the existing Farmer Training Centers 1/ and
a project is underway to increase the supply of extension workers at various
levels.
3.05      Inadequate cooperation among the agencies involved in non-formal
training for rural development 2/ has been a major obstacle toward developing
a comprehensive scheme. There are as many as seven different programs, by
and large, all operating independently. A proposal for the creation of a
rural education program has been recently mooted within the Ministry of Educa-
tion, but the Government intends to reorganize and improve utilization of
facilities and staff in the seven programs referred to above before incurring
new substantial capital expenditure, which would induce additional recurrent
expenditure and tie down limited funds for future development. Furthermore,
the Government recognizes that careful programming is needed in this area and
that, for this purpose, technical assistance is required.
3.06      Education Policy, Strategy and Plans.  The Government, aware of
these problems, has taken several measures to acquire greater control of the
first and second levels of education, to develop a long-term educational
policy consistent with the country's needs, and to formulate an appropriace
strategy for its implementation. As a first step toward providing the base
for more coordinated development, the Government has accepted an increasing
share of the financial burden by paying grants-in-aid to mission schools,
and the salaries of all qualified teachers. To help meet the immediate
problem of rising costs, the Government has reduced the former eight-year
1/   There are four Farmer Training Centers (FTC) which can accommodate in
total 140 adult farmers and 120 young farmers. A fifth Ceater is bein-,
established, and it is planned to establish one FTC in each of the nine
regions of the country, after the coordination prob'.ems depicted at
para. 3.05 have been resolved.  In addition, the existing FTCs are
under-utilized for lack of trained personnel.
2/   As explained in Appendix 1, paras. 27-31, there are three government
agencies operating in this field.



-6-
primary course to seven years. It is also considering a proposal for a
'urther reduction of the course to six years and is controlling the growth
of secondary education.  However, even if the past rate of secondary earoll-
ment expansion (25% p.a., para 3.02) were reduced to 12.5% p.a., the present
enrollment of 12,500 would grow to about 33,000 by 1985. The costs, both
capital and recurrent, would severely strain financial resources and the
domestic labor market would be unable to absorb the additional school leavers:
Annex 5 shows that this expansion would require spending on education some
40% of total Government recurrent budget by 1985. In addition, capital cost
for new secondary school places would be some US$25 million equivalent over
the next ten years for classroom building only.  These costs would prevent
any development of technical, vocational and commercial education and impede
the establishment of an effective rural education scheme after solution of
the issues summarized at para. 3.05. Finally, if this expansion were peritted,
in the early eighties, secondary schools would graduate over 5,000 p.a. wilie
estimated requirements for middle level manpower are for about 1000-2,000 p.a.
3.07      To assist policy formulation and planning, the Government has con-
ducted several studies of the various levels and types of education. The
Government education plan is based on these studies and gives priority to.
(a) the improvement and expansion of technical, commercial, agricultural,
vocational and teacher education; (b) the reorientation of the secondary
curriculum to include practical subjects, with increased emphasis on mathematics
and science, and the modernization of methods of instruction; and (c) the
phased development of a rural and adult education program in line with staff
availability and improved inter-ministerial cooperation. The quentitative
targets are summarized in the projections of Annex 5. In particular, these
projections show: (i) rapid expansion in enrollments in specialized institu-
tions for training of middle level manpower; (ii) continued growth of primary
school enrollments at the rate of 2.6% p.a.; (iii) strict control of increases
in enrollments in non-technical secondary schools with a rate of increase of
4.0% p.a.; and (iv) gradual implementation of a countrywide scheme of rural
and adult education.  With this strategy, public expenditure on educatioon
would be maintained at about 20% of the Government budget, universal primary
education would be reached by the end of the century and by 1985, some 14%
of t-he eligible youngsters would find places in secondary schools.
3.08      Investment Programs,  The Government investment program based on
this policy, strategy and plan is designed to meet the following priorities:
(a) continued support of the tri-national University of Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland to produce an adequate supply of high level manpower (para. 2.09);
(bi) improvement and expansion of institutions for agricultural, technical,
vocationa.   and teacher training to lessen the existing acute manpower short-
ages.  In the past, specialized, technical and commercial education at the
hiLher and pos -secondary levels have received too little attention (para.
3.02). With  improved facil.ities and increased enrollments, these levels and
types of education will receive about 10% of the recurrent budget allocation
for education compared with 3.5% in the early 1970s; (c) increased enrollment
in primary and secondary educationi to be met primarily by expanding existing
institutions to permit economies of scale.  This is particularly necessary at
the primary level where the existing 1 ,087 primary schools have an average



-7-
size of about 175 student places each. At the secondary level, the average
school size barely approaches 200 student places. At the primary level,
expansion of facilities would be carried out through self-help ox Government
grants-in-aid. At the secondary level, facilities would be expanded to
promote a more practical program in six of the 56 existing schools and, after
testing and evaluation, in the remaining schools. Planned growth of second-
ary schools would require only 600 additional school places p.a.; and (d)
the establishment of a nationwide rural and adult education scheme. Although
long-range planning and careful technical programming are required before
major investment (para. 3.05), immediate progress would be made by (i) increas-
ing the supply of agricultural eatension workers; (ii) expanding correspondence
courses and educational broadcasting for adults; (iii) using secondary school
facilities and staff for non-formal education programs; (iv) utilizing the
technical vocational and commercial education facilities for in-service train-
ing; and (v) reorienting the content of primary teacher training to prepare
future teachers for an expanded role in community development.
3.09      Some aspects of this investment program are already receiving
assistance from various bilateral and multilateral sources, In particular,
the expansion of UBLS is helped by the UK, US, Canada and Denmark for both
capital and recurrent expenditures. The UK, Denmark and bNDP are assisting
the construction, equipping, and staffing of a National Teachers College
(total capacity: 550 student places) which would permit the expansion of
primary and secondary teacher training programs at present carried out in
seven small mission colleges (total capacity: 300 student places). Under a
project assisted by the UK, the Lesotho Agricultural College is being expanded
from less than 100 student places to some 250 student places in line with the
demand for extension and research personnel. Emphasis is not only on quan-
titative expansion: e.g., the new teacher training program would prepare
future teachers to assume a broader role in community development by training
them in nutrition, home-economics, rural crafts and related subjects, and the
expanded Lesotho Agricultural College would give priority to training in
erosion control and to domestic science programs for women (para. 2.02).
3.10      The other aspects of this investment program would form part of
the IDA-assisted education project. The Government plans to evaluate the
progress and effectiveness of the proposed educational reforms on a continuing
basis. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that within one year of
the signing of the Credit Agreement, an education evaluation committee will
be created which would include members from the Ministry of Education, the
Central Planning and Development Office and other relevant agencies. The
evaluation committee will regularly assess the progress of the new programs as
to their relevance to Lesotho's needs, their efficiency in meeting manpower
requirements and the effectiveness of the new curricula and teaching mezho6s.
The committee will recommend changes and improvements in the courses and ;ro-
grams as required.  The Government'also confirmed that the draft operatcO:.al
procedure of the evaluation committee will be forwarded to the Association foor
comments within 18 months of signing the Credit Agreement.



IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist an investment program aimed at:
(a) expanding and improving vocational, technical, and commercial education;
(b) providing an extension college for continuing education of adults;
(c) introducing pre-vocational agricultural, commercial and other practical
subjects into the secondary school curricula together with non-formal training
programs for youths and adults; and (d) staff development and preparation
of future programs and projects. It would consist of:
(a) The Provision of Educational Facilities:
Buildings, furniture, and equipment for the following institutions:
Approximate Number of Student Places
Type of Institution                     Existing    Additio;ial        Total
1. Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI)
(grades 11-14)                        120         240            360
2. Lesotho Institute of Business and
Administration (LIBA) (grades 13-14) 70            130            200
3. Lesotho National Extension College
(LNEC)(part-time)  .               (4,000)     (4,000)        (4,000)
4.  Six Secondary Schools (grades 8-12)1,700          1,050          2,750
TOTAL                       1,890        1,420          3,310 /1
e!  The totals above do not include part-time and short-course students.
LNEC enrollments are estimatted at some 4,000 p.a. Part-time students
of LTI and LIBA would be 300 p.a. Youths and adults in non-formal courses
operated in the secondary schools would be 600 p.a.
(b) The Provision of Technical Assistance:
The cost of 25 specialists (79 man-years) and 48 fellowships
(80 man-years) for staff development, introduction of new
programs, preparation of a rural education scheme, and proj-
ect implemnentation.
Student capacities and staff requirements of the project schools are summarized
in Annex 6.
Project Iters
4.02      The Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI) is the only industrial,
vocational training institution in the country, and the proposed project



- 9 -
would assist in its renovation and expansion. The improvements would both
add to the range of instruction given and increase the existing capacity from
120 to 360 student places. The program would comprise: (a) a pre-craft
training course; 1/ (b) craft courses in carpentry, construction, electrical
installation, plumbing and sheet-metal work, motor vehicle and maintenance
mechanics work; (c) post-secondary technician courses in civil, mechanical
and electrical engineering; and (d) the training of pre-vocational teachers
for secondary schools. An important new feature would be the provision of
in-service training for persons already in employment. Programs and facili-
ties would be organized on a flexible basis to permit the addit:ion, or
elimination, of specialized courses in response to changing demand. Boarding
(176 places) and staff housing (22 units) are necessary due to the national
character of the LTI and the housing shortage in Maseru, the capital.
4.03      The Government has proposed that one of the older buildings on the
LTI campus which is not suited for use as a training facility be converted
into a unit to produce furniture needed for primary schools (para. 3.03).
Located on the LTI campus, thi3 unit would also be used as a transition unit
for some LTI graduates to expose them to actual production practices before
they take up employment.
4.04      The Government plans to appoint a Consultative Committee for LTI to
make recommendations on courses and to ensure that courses are related to
employers' needs.  The Committee ,ould be chaired by the Director of LTI and
would include members from govenmant agencies and private industry. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed these plans and gave assurances that
within one year after the signing of the Credit Agreement, the Consultative
Committee will be established and its members selected.   In addition, the
Government will consult with the Association on the qualifications of the
director of the LTI.
4.05      The importance of the LTI for education and economic development
is indicated by the fact that three bilateral agencies have expressed their
interest in participating in the development of this institution. They would
assist discrete elements of the LTI by providing buildings, furniture, and
equipment for specific sections of the Institute and technical assistance and
fellowships. A summary of the assistance which LTI would receive from bilateral
agencies and of its status is as follows:
(a) The Federal Republic of Germany has already agreed with
the Lesotho Government to provide and/or improve physical
facilities for courses in automotive and machine shop,
along with 21 man-years of technical assistance and six
man-years for overseas training of local instructors;
(b)  The ODA has agreed to provide buildings, equipment, and
technical assistance (nine man-years) for the technician
training program.
1/   A six-month course to prepare grade 10 leavers for entry into the craft
course at LTI.



- 10 -
(c) Tne Goldfield dining Corporation 1/ has agreed to establish
the plumbing and sheet-metal section of the Institute
together with six man-years of technical assistance and
two man-years of fellowships.
The IDA credit would assist financing of the remaining sections of the LTI.
4.06      Lesotho institute of Business and Administration (LIBA). This
item would aid the establishment of an 4.nstitute to train clerical, commercial
and administrative personnel for the civil service and for private business
(60% private sector, 40% public sector). The Civil Service Training Center,
(CSTC), housed in inadequate facilities and poorly equipped, is the only pre-
sent means of providing tnese ski.;s and is available only to civil servants.
The new institute (LIBA) would be located on the same campus as the LTI. Due
to the national character of LIBA and the housing shortage in Maseru, a provis-
ion for boarding (80 places) and staff housing (12 units) is necessary.
4.07      LIBA would provide facilities for about 200 full-time students in-
cluding the training of 20 commercial teachers for secondary schools. The
same facilities would be used for dart-time evening courses to upgrade commer-
cial and administrative personnel already in employment. The courses for the
private commercial sector would include secretarial and office subjects; book-
keeping; sales and marketing; and management. Courses for the civil servants
would include government procedures in clerical, office, and accounting prac-
tices; post office operations; and governmert administration. LIBA facil-
ities would also be used for the evening accDunting courses offered by the
UBLS extra-mural program (Appendix 1, para. 26).
4.08      The ODA has already agreed to provide physical facilities, equipment,
and technical assistance (18 man-years) for the LIBA section related to civil
service training, while the proposed IDA credit would assist in the financing
of the section providing for private sector training. The two sections would
make joint use of classrooms, offices and equipment. To this end adequate
organizational arrangements are required and the Government has confirmed that
the administrators of both sections will be responsible to one principal.
4.09      Lesotho National Extension College (LNEC).  This item would assist
the development and operation of a national adult education program. At
present, there are several uncoordinated adult education programs under
various agencies (para. 3.05). Only limited assistance can be contemplated
before programming a broader and well-conceived scheme (para. 3.08). Response
to the evening courses carried out in secondary schools and by UBLS has been
excellent; all classes have been over-subscribed and the dropout rate has
been low. Because of the high literacy rate, and the shortage of secondary
and post-secondary school places, there is a large dematid for these courses.
To meet this demand, the project would help establish the Lesotho National
1/   The Goldfield Mining Corporation is a South African mining company which
operates in the Republic a few miles from the Lesotho border.



- 11 -
Extension College (LNEC) by providing the headquarters of the LNEC, including
duplicating, collating and storage facilities, equipment for the production of
radio and tape recorded educational programs, and housing for six staff. The
headquarters of LNEC would be locatsd on the LTI campus in order to share
facilities and staff and achieve ec)nomies in operation.
4.10      The LNEC would make use of radio, correspondence, booklets, tape-
recordings and regular teachers in off-hours. Where applicable, group meet-
ings and secondary school workshops, laboratories and classrooms would be
used to supplement radio and correspondence instruction.  The six secondary
schools included in the project (para. 4.01) would serve as satellite centers
for the LNEC. Workshops, tools, equipment, and teachers at their disposal
would be also used as part of the LNEC activities. The program would include
in-service teacher training, basic rural training in agriculture, animal
husbandry, health, handicraft, farm equipment maintenance, marketing, and
cooperatives in the satellite centers, as well as supplemental academic courses
for preparation to JC and COSC 1/ examinations.
4.11      The LNEC is planned to reach 4,000-5,000 adults p.a. after a three-
year development period. This seems reasonable in view of the experience with
similar successful programs in Kenya, Mauritius, Ghana and Uganda, among
others. The Lesotho- program would be patterned on these earlier efforts.
Special courses would be provided at the six satellite centers on a regular
basis, evenings and Saturdays for adults and school leavers from the surround-
ing areas. It is anticipated that at least half of these courses would be
directed to women and focus on nutrition and basic rural skills (para. 2.02).
4.12      The Lesotho National Broadcasting Service already carries six hours
a week of educational broadcasting. Additional hours will be made available
for the LNEC courses. Three of the six satellite center/schools already have
two-way radio equipment in operation and it is proposed that addit;ional radio
equipment be provided to the satellite schools as part of the project.
4.13      The Government has recently concluded an agreement with the Inter-
national Extension College (IEC) of Cambridge, UK, to organize and develop
the LNEC. The IEC, which has had extensive experience in setting up similar
programs in many other African countries, will provide an administrator, a
correspondence course specialist and an educational broadcast specialist for
at least two years to launch the program.  The Government has agreed to supply
local staff and the required recurrent budget.
4.14      To prepare the broader non-formal education program. required to
improve productivity and the standard of living on the 1iand (paras. 2.10,
3.05), the project would provide the services of a rural education specialist
for three years.  The specialist would assist the Government in reviewing
1/   JC - Junior Certificate received after the tenth grade examination.
COSC - Cambridge Overseas School Certificate received after the
twelfth grade examinations.



1< -b
existing programs (A-pendix 15 paras. 26-31)   testing their effectiveness and
programming a coordinated approach of the variouz agencies to rural education
development including heaith'  nutrition and agri culture.   During negotiations
azreement was reach-ed with the Government that ay June 30, i977, a draft pro-
graim for the rural educaton scheme will be forwarded to the Association for
comments.  The Governnient has also confi°rec its intentilon to astablish aa
inter-ministerial Rural Developmenz Council.
4.15                       Genral Secondary EducazIOr. - Th1fe o,roject would -pro-
vide the buildings and equipment required to introduce practicaL sub-jects
into six selected secondary schools.  The quality of secondary education
needs to be inm-:roved an& the curriculum is to be -nade more relevant to Lesotho's
environment (para. 3.03).  Emphasis on science and mathematics teaching is now
being increased and agriculture, handicrafts and industrial arts would boe intro-
duced as regular subjects in the secondary school program.  Dlomestic science
courses would be available to girls.
4.16      Because of the lack of practicaL subject teachers, the Government
plans to iimit the n-w program initially to six secondary schools (about 10%
of all secondary sc1hools).  The six schools haae been carefully selected to
insure widespread geographical distribution and each would adopt the subjects
most relevant to the needs in the surrounding re-gion.  Five of them would be
located in rural areas and would provide additicnal thrust to the rural develop-
ment program since all are in, or adjacent to, major agriculturai1 development
project areas.  A.l  are 'ocated in comparatively well-populated regions to
reduce the need for boarding facilities:  three are in the north, one central
and two in the south,  In accordance with the Go-,earnment plan to control growth
in secondary schooi enrollment by expanding existing schools rather t.han
building additional schools, each school has been designated for further
expansion and tie project would provide for thze l<resent total enrollment of
1,700 to be increased to 2,750.
4.17      The proposed changes in the curriculum would provide an improved
and more useful educational basis for students who would not enter university
but would join the rural or urban employment mazt 9t, and also for those students
who are accepted for further studies at thae University.  Plans and syllabi
for the new practLcal subjects program aLre well advanced.  T'nirty-six additional
teachers of practical subjects will be recuired for the initial program, and
satisfactory arrangements for training these teachers have been made using
the LTI, LTBA, the National Teachers College, and the Swaziland Agricultural
College University Center (UBLS). The Goavernmen et has provided assurances
that, within one year arter the signing of Cred>i  Agreement, draft syllabi for
the secondary schools wivll be forwarded to the Association for comlents and
that the required teacners will be rec-ruited and in training.  Priority should
be given to .ne cons ruct'-`on of the required fac4 lies to insure the earliest
possible start oL the rural education program.
4.13      Staf` Develoo~ment.  Successful i *ple.ntation of the educaticn
strategy outlined at para. 3.08 and of Ine forimative evaluation system
summarized at paras. 3.10 arnd 4.04 requ-Ire strenglaening aad upgradirng of



- 13 -
the staffing of the Ministry of Education for which technical assistance is
needed. In particular, the following positions would be established in the
Ministry and staffed initially by expatriate specialists who would train
their counterparts with a view to being replaced by Basotho after three years
from the start of the technical assistance program: (a) a rural education
specialist would plan, organize, and develop the proposed new program of
rural education and, working with the Rural Development Council, devise the
administrative means of coordinating the efforts of the various Ministries
which are active in rural development efforts (paras. 3.05 and 4.14); (b) a
director of practical studies would develop the proposed new secondary school
program and make necessary adjustments as the program deve1ops;, and (c) the
director of the teaching service would organize and develop a new system
of teacher recruitment, records, and payment, made necessary by the recerit
decision of the Government to take over responsibility for the payment of
salaries of all qualified teachers (para. 3.06). The Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed to provide these specialists (a total of
9 man-years of services) and the fellowships (72 man-years of fellowships) to
train the teachers of practical subjects for the new secondary school program
(para. 4.17).
4.19      As indicated in paras. 4.05, 4.08, and 4.13, specialists' services
and fellowships for staff development at LTI, LIBA and LNEC would be provided
under bilateral programs that would finance, in parallel with the the Associa-
tion and the Lesotho Government, discrete elements of the project. As summar-
ized in Appendix 2, as many as 63 man-years of specialists' services are re-
quired for the comprehensive program for the improvement/establishment of these
institutions; this high number reflects the shortage of local high and middle
level manpower that has hindered Lesotho's development programs and limited its
absorptive capacity (paras. 2.04, 2.08 and 2.09).
4.20      Finally, seven man-years of technical assistance are required for
project implementation. In particular, because of the lack of local expertise,
the positions of a project director and procurement specialist would be filled
by expatriates who, in addition to overseeing the implementation of the pro-
ject, would train their counterparts, help establish an effective school build-
ing unit in the Ministry of Education and assist in standardizing and making
more economical educational facilities. This technical assistance would be
financed under the proposed IDA Credit.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      Cost Estimates.  Civil works cost estimates have been derived from
examples of recent school and housing projects in Lesotho and are based oa
the maximum use of the few local construction materials and locally available
skills. The average cost for new school construction is estimated at about
US$130 per square meter and housing costs at about US$143. Construction
costs are higher in Lesotho in comparison with other Eastern African countries
due to higher labor costs, transportation and soil difficu1lties. The con-
struction phase of the project is planned to encourage the use of self-hel1



- 14 -
schemes in the construction of secondary schools and should result in
economies. Standardized plans for the construction of repetitive units
and the use of local building materials will further reduce construction
costs. Schedules of accommodation have been prepared for all the project
institutions and allow for functional but economical standards. Estimated
utilization factors are economical on all project institutions. On the LTI
the projected usage factor exceeds 80%, based on a 40-hour week. The se-
condary school component has a projected usage factor exceeding 75%. These
factors allow a sufficient margin of flexibility in timetable scheduling.
Equipment cost estimates for LTI, LIBA, LNEC and secondary schools are based
on Unesco and IL0 basic lists of instructional equipment and are reasonable.
Detailed lists of instructional equipment will be prepared during the design
stage and reviewed by the Association before procurement. The estimated
costs of the various parts of the project and categories of expenditure are
given in Annex 7 and are summarized below:



- 15 -
Rand (Millions)            US$ (Millions)          % of
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total      Total
1. Civil Works, Furniture
and Equipment
a. LTI                    0.41   0.65      1.06      0.62   o.96      1.58        20
b. LIBA                   0.14   0.15      0.29      0.20   0.23      0,43         5
c. LNEC                   0.05   0.05      0.10      0.07   0.08      0.15         2
d. Secondary schools      0.43   0.56      0.99      o.66   o.84      1.50        18
Sub-total              1.03   l.1l      2.44      1.55   2.11      3.66
2. Technical Assistance
Specislis ;s and
Overseao
Fellowships           0.26   1.0       1,30      0.39   1.56      1.95       24
3. Professional Services    0.08   0.07       0.15      0.12   0.10      0.22         3
4. Pro.ject Unit Expenses
and Local
Fellowships             0.16   0.11      0.27      0.24   0.16      0.40         5
Total before
Contingencies           1.53   2.63      4.16      2.30   3.93      6.23        77
5. Contingencies
a. Unforeseen factors    0.11   0.12       0.23      0.16   0.18      0.34         4
b. Price increases        0.45   0.59      1.04      o.68   o.89      1.57        19
Sub-total              0.56   0.71      1.27      o.84   1.07      1.91
Total Project Cost                                   31 14 1    i0    8.14       100%
Total Project Cost
includes local
taxes of:               0.29    -        0.29     o044    -         0.44         5%



- 46 -
5. 02      CUaccas Duties and Taxes.  Lesotho forms part of a customs union
Wt t.  Otswana,  'l"e Republic of South Africa and Swaziland.  Items imported
:ro. countries outside the customs uni.on are not liable to import duty or
sa'es taxes if pDoCU ea officially by the Government.  Sales taxes of 10%
mav be levie2 an certaln miLanufactured items procured locally and within the
customs unionO. t17ts Provision wculd apply only so a small amount of furn4ture
and iii structa-na` e-u2prenft to be purchased under -he project; sales taxes
on these as te arees t- red at US$20 000 equivalent. As the Lesotho Govern-
ment does no   ;;ave a central procurement agency, it will be the responsibility
of t'ne Proes c      ocus rement Officer to ensure tnat dutiable items are pur-
chased ori        0 of the LesotLo Government.  Altogether direct and indirect
taxes on -ooas .d services to be procured under the project are estimated at
US$0.44 m     aica equiva_ent or about 1 4% of the estimated local currency
component of Ia.' 1Z4 mi'llion equivalent.
5.03       Io-n, i ng.ncv a-aowances provide 10% for unforeseen factors to the
cost estimatzes of si te developnient, construction, furniture and 5% to the
equipment cost estim.ates,  Based on past trends and expected inflationary
patterns, cos;cs are e.xpected to increase 18% p.a. for civil works, and 1Z/ p.a.
for furniture and equipment.  Total contingencies would be equivalent to about
31% of the basic cost of the project and 23% of the total project cost in-
cluding contingenCies.  Overall, contingency allowances are comparatively
low as contingencies hnave not been added to the large technical assistance,
fellowships, and p-roject administration components of the project (29% of
the total cost of the project inclusive of contingencies) because recruitment
of the specialists and placement of the fellows is already underway.
5.04      The estimated foreign exchange component has been calculated as
follows: (a) site development and constructiorn 45%; (b) furniture 80%; (c)
equip-ment 85%; kda) professional services 45%; (e) project administration 40%.
including contingencies the foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US$5.00 million or 61% of the total project cost of US$8.14 million.
5.05       Financial Plar.  The total project cost of US$8.14 million equivalent
would be financed by the following agencies:  The IDA, the Federal Republic
of Germany, the United Kingdom  (ODA), Canada (CIDA), the International
Extension College kIT C,, the Goldfield Mlining Corporation and the Kingdom of
Lesotho. The five bi'lateral donor agencies would finance discrete elements
of the project in parallel with the elements jointly financed by the Associa-
tion and the Kiangdon of Lesotho.  TMe financing plan is given in Annex 8 and
summarized by major co-mponents below:



- 17 -
-------US$ million----------------
Lesotho     IDA   Other Donor   Total
Govermient Credit    Agencies   Project
1. Civil Works
LTI                             0.14        0.57       0.22        0.93
LIBA                            0.03        0.15       0.17        0.35
LNEC                            0.03        0.10        -          0.13
Secondary Schools               0.21        0.85        -          1.06
Sub-total                0.41       1.67        0.39        2.47
2.  Technical Assistance             -           -          2.00       2.00
3.  Furniture                       0.04        0.14        0.02       0.20
4.  Equipment                        0.08       0.48        0.43       0.99
5. Professional Services            0.04        0.17        0.01       0.22
6.  Project Administration          0.07        0.28         -         0.35
7.  Contingencies                   0.39        1.26       0.26        1.91
Total                    1.03       4.00        3e11        8.14
5.06      From the estimated total project cost of US$8.14 million equivalent,
the five bilateral donors would finance an estimated total of US$3.11 million
equivalent, of which about US$2 million equivalent would be for technical
assistance and fellowships. Broken into separate donor contribution component
parts, these are as follows:
(a) The Federal Republic of Germany has concluded an agreement
with Lesotho to provide about US$1.37 million equivalent for
the provision of technical assistance, buildings and equip-
ment to expand and improve LTI facilities for the training
of motor vehicle mechanics/maintenance fitters.
(b) The ODA has agreed to finance the civil service training
section of LIBA (para 4.08) and the technician training
section of LTI (para 4.05). The cost of these facilities
including technical assistance and contingencies is
estimated at US$0.90 million equivalent.
(c) CIDA has agreed to provide technical assistance in the form
of specialists and fellowships (foreign and local) for the
preparation of the rural education scheme (para. 4.14), the
staff development of the Ministry of Education and training



- 18 -
of instructors of practical subjects (para. 4.18). The
estimated cost of this assistance is US$0.56 million
equivalent.
(d)  Tne IEC has agreed to provide specialists to assist the
LNEC (para 4.13). The cost of these specialists services
would be US$0.l4 million equivalent.
(e)  The Goldfield Mining Corporation has agreed to provide
buildings, furniture, equipment, specialists and fellowships
to assist LTI in the establishing of a course to train
plumbers and sheet-metal workers (para 4.05). The estimated
cost of this assistance will be US$0.14 million equiralent.
A summary of technical assistance costs by donors is given in Annex 9.
5.07      The additional recurrent expenditure generated by the project is
estimated at about R 200,000 p.a.  This would be equivalent to some 5% of
the project capital cost excluding technical assistance, a comparatively low
ratio of induced recurrent expenditure to capital spending on education be-
cause tne project gives priority to improvement of quality and methods of
instruction rather than to expansion of enrollment. In 1979/80, when the
project schools would be in full operation, the additional recurrent cost
would be equivalent to some 5% of the projected recurrent budget of the
Ministry of Education. The Government can meet this additional recurrent
cost and its share of the capital cost (US$1.03 million equivalent) without
curtailing expenditures for other high priority activities and without over-
burdening the educational budget.
Implementation
5.08      The project would be implemented over a period of four years after
the date of Credit effectiveness. An additional six months would be required
for the completion of payments and withdrawals from the Credit-Account.
5.09      Administration   A Project Unit with appropriate facilities and
staff is being established within the Ministry of Education for: (a) super-
vision of project implementation; (b) coordination with the Ministries and
other parties involved in the project; and (c) liaison with the Association.
The Unit would include, inter alia, on a full-time basis, a project director,
an accountant and a procurement specialist,-selected in consultation with
the Association.  The Project Director was ippointed before credit negotiations.
The Project Unit would be assisted by an architect/engineer from the Ministry
of Works to assist in coordination and liaison with the architectural con-
sultants.  ,Te establishment of the Project Unit would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit. Supplemental operational expenses, including
accommodations, salaries of the staff, furniture, a vehicle, equipment and
general expenses of the Unit would be financed under the Credit.



- 19 -
5.10      Professional Services (Architectural).  For the design and supervision
of the construction of project institutions, the services of consultants will
be required because the architectural section of the Ministry of Works is
severely under-staffed and will only be able to provide personnel on a part-
time basis (para. 5.09). Consultants would be required to make maximum use of
local construction skills and materials in the design of project institutions,
since cost estimates have been made on that basis. Consultants were selected
before credit negotiations. A condition of credit effectiveness would be the
appointment of the Consultants, employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association.
Procurement
5.11      IDA-financed Component.  The proposed credit of US$4.0 million
equivalent would finance the foreign exchange component (US$2.64 million) and
57% of local expenditures of the elements of the project assisted by the
Association (Annex 10).
5.12      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines
for procurement. It is unlikely that foreign firms, except those from the
Republic of South Africa, would be interested. It is anticipated that the
local construction industry could be overloaded and in order to prevent delays
in project implementation and excessive costs, project contracts would be
grouped, as approved by the Association, in order to encourage competitive
bidding. Award of contracts would be on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid
on individual institutions, or the lowest combination thereof. Civil works
firms would be pre-qualified in accordance with existing Ministry of Works
procedures whichi would be adjusted to conforni to IDA guidelines. Domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5%.
Sketch designs and draft tender documents would be reviewed by the Associ-
ation. Award of contracts for civil works would not requite prior review
by the Association unless they exceed US$150,000 equivalent.
5.13      Contracts for furniture and instructional equipment would be on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Association's guidelines for procurement, except that procurement of instr-uc-
tional equipment, books, and furniture costing less than US$20,000 up to an
aggregate total of US$100,000 would be on the basis of local competitive
bidding, using the Borrower's standard procurement procedures. Books could
be procured at the publisher's price, plus a handling commnission which would
be established by obtaining quotations from suitable suppliers.  Draft tender
documents, master lists of: furniture, instructional equipment and books,
including proposed grouping of these items for tendering, would be submitted
to the Association for review.  Items would be grouped to the extent prac-
ticable to encourage competition and bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the exist.i-.g rates of import
duties, whicliever is lower, over the c.i.f.  price of competing imports.
Award of contracts for instructional equipment anl furniture would not require
prior review by the Association unless they exceed US$20,000 equivalent up to
an aggregate total of US$100,000 equivalent.



- 20 
5. 4         --iraziced by bilateral Donors0  Procureme,lt of the goods
and services            <     ,ceC    ODA  the Federa, Re`puiLi c of Crmaryv  the IEC, the
Go1 dfiel1d MaO& wU in O ;o   and C DA wou.dA            - policies and practices
of the respective oaranizations anda can be expected to lead to reasonable
costs .
D s u r s em a-n
5 . t 5    Dis1-*,-ursa t '.Annex   ) would be on the basi s of:
(a)  100% of foreiign expenditures for dizreczly imported inst"ructional
acu±",na;t a.d rfurniture or 100% of ex-factory cost of locally
m.sns..a-r¢uset %rL;iture;
kb)  3O of Lota1 ex-,panditures for; civil t works, professional
arch  cctur. services; loc   expen-.ditures for transportation
se-r.wcs C3for furniture and equipmernt  and project administration.
*Dis'brs~maa   for project administraito-n would be made against
a ce      cate of expenditure, documentation for which would not
be        tad for review, but would be retained by the borrower
and woud be av2ilable for inspection by the Association in the
course of project supervision.
Procurement i.s  -xee.ed to be completed by Y-arch 31, 1977 and the project
by October 1,  978 with a. proposed Credit Closing Date of March 31, 1979.
5.16       RetrL,cti   Finaning.  Retroactive reimtbursement is recommended
for the services os eons altant architects for the preparation of sketch plans
for the project institutions, project unit accommodations (paras. 5.09 and
5.10) and for Projec.t Udit expenditures. This would speed up project
implementation by up to six months.  Retroactive reimbursement should cover
expenditures f:rom April 1, 1974. The amount of ex-oenditure before the date
of the Credit Aoreement is not expected to exceed US$275,000 of which
US$220,000 would be. eligible for reimbursement.
V-L  BEINEFITS AND TUSTIFICATLON
6.01       The propoaed project would help to Jtuplement selected lines of a
long-term education ceveLopm ent strategy aimed at: (a) improving the supply
from local instliutio=s of lmiddle level manpower in fields directly related
Lo econom-ic de velopme:.t   b' -Introducing practical subjects in the secondary
school cLrr`tcu-Uz  ( Cy        facilities and resou-rces at the disposal of the
education system to su?powt rural development. and assisting the formulation
of a we11-coor`irs:       d well-concel vad rural education program.
6.02      oRne pro-c;,- ls cortribution to  nn :L-I-roved tu-ply of; middl-e level
manpower arse-         zfle _a assistance which would 'be gIven to local training
institutiona -.n t:ie iaca^1_cal, vocational, and coamiercial fields.  The compre-
heisive program for the improvement of the LTI and the LIBA and for the



- 21 -
establishment of the LANEC would enable Lesotho to meet well-identified man-
power gaps that have frustrated the impleme2tation of development plans (para
2.09). As the institutional supply of tech;icians, skilled workers and
commercial/administrative personnel is expe:ted to fall shorv of needs, LTI
and LIBA would develop the evening and non-formal programs required to streng-
then "on-the-job" training. By providing retraining and upgrading courses at
both institutions for persons already employed and by helping develop the
LNEC, the project would extend the capability of the existing labor force to
contribute to economic growth through increased productivity.
6.03      The project would also help produce a general education system more
responsive to the country 's culture and needs.  Some elements of the system
are already receiving aid from bilateral and multi4ateral donors  para. 3,09).
Therefore the project would place emphasis essentially on he'ping the Govern-
ment reorient secondary education towards a more practical contoent. ^s1e
selected schools would provide a testing ground for the evaluation and promo-
tion of new curricula embodying practical subjects before Wider applications
to other secondary schools (para 3,10).
6.04      The project's contribution to the establishment of   na;Lonwide
rural education scheme is limited by the absence of a lon-range plan .paza?
4.14). Meanwhile, the expansion of the Lesotho Agricultural Coll`ege u-nder
bilateral assistance (para 3.09) will increase the output of extension and
research personnel in line with the country's absorptive capacity and provide
the personnel required for any future rural education scheme.  The project
would provide a starting point for a well-conceived program of non-formal
rural-skill education for adults and school leavers by providing educational
broadcasting for farmers and farmers' wives, and by making use of the com-
paratively high literacy rate of Lesotho through appropriate part-time and
correspondence courses.  The evaluation mechanism and the special±sts' ser-
vices provided under the project would help prepare a broader rural education
program for future investment in this vital area (para 4.14). Furthermore,
as 85% of the student places to be equipped in the project second-ary schools
would be in rural areas, the project would also contribute toward improving
rural educational opportunities and promoting social mobility.
6.05      In summary, the project would help remove critical manpower con-
straints, would assist educational development particularly at the second-
ary level and would make a contribution to rural development. Objectives
and expected benefits point to the suitability of the project as a part of
the overall Lesotho lending strategy which is directed to improving and
expanding the country's infrastructure, increasirLg agricultural productivi-y,
and extending the government's capability to prepare and administer deve-oLj-
ment projects and programs.



- 22 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.0i      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  the establishment of an education evaluation comxittee
in the Ministry o_ Education and a consultative cnumittee
for the LTI, and clarification of the organizational
arrangements for LIBA (paras. 3.10, 4.04 and 4.08);
(b)  the preparation of a rural education plan, draft curricula
for practical studies, and the training of instructors
(paras. 4.14 and 4.17); and
(c)  the selection of an accountant and a procurement
specialist for, and MOW support to, the Project Unit
(para. 5.09).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of the
Project Unit and the appointment of architectural consultants would be
conditions of credit effectiveness (paras. 5.09 and 5.10).
7.03      Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for:  (a) civil works up ta
US$22,000 equivalent; (b) the services of consultant architects to prepare
sketch plans for several project institutions; and (c) Project Unit ex-
penditures (para. 5.16).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$4.0 million equivalent to the
Kingdom of Lesotho for a term of 50 years including a ten-year grace period.



APPENDIX I
?age 1
LESOTHO EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education and Training System
Historical Background
1.        Formal education in Lesotho started shortly after the arrival of
the first missionaries of the French Evangelical Society in 1833. They were
followed by the Roman Catholic Missions in 1862 and the Anglican Church in
1876. Some 90% of the existing primary and secondary schools are operated
by these three missions. The efforts of the missions produced a comparatively
high literacy rate, estimated at ver 40% of the adult population, but the
teaching has remained overly literary and poorly suited to Lesotho's environ-
ment and need. Prior to 1966, when Lesotho achieved independence, the mission
schools were largely free of Government control; the position iS rapidly
changing with the award of Government grants-in-aid and payment of both pri-
mary and secondarv teachers' salaries. As a result of its participation in
the cost of operating the schools, the Government now has a more effective
academic and administrative control of curricula, teaching standards, and
examination procedures for all schools at primary and secondary levels.
Administration
2.        Administrative, financial and academic control of Lesotho's general
education system is vested in the Ministry of Education. The Ministry ad-
ministers the educational programs of primary schools, secondary schools,
teacher training colleges, the vocational institute and the Lesotho share of
the University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS). 1/
3.        In addition to these general educational institutions administered
by the Ministry of Education, education/training programs are operated by
other Ministries. These include: (a) the Lesotho Agricultural College, the
Farmer Training Centers, the Agricultural Extension service and the Nutritional
Training Programs administered by the Ministry of Agriculture; (b) the Civil
Service Training Center and the Ministry of Works and Communications training
programs under the Prime Minister's Office; (c) the Nursing Training Program
under the Ministry of Hlealth; and (d) the Youth Center under the Secretariat
to the Cabinet.
4.        Of the 4,400 teachers in the school system, most are employed by
the mission schools and do not, therefore, appear on the estab'lishment list
of the Ministry of Education (MOE) although most of their salaries are now
1/   See para 25 below for a description of UBLS.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
financed by the Government and channelled through the MOE under the heading
'Other Operating Cost." The total establishment of the Ministry is fewer
than 100 and is organized as in Chart 3 (World Bank Chart 8188).
5.        The existing Inspectorate Division operates at the primary school
level with a ratio in excess of 250 teachers per inspector. The Division
needs strengthenIng and it would be advisable for the Government to establish
a cadre of secondary school inspectors.  The National Teachers College, to be
developed with bilateral assistance, is expected to help meet this need.
6.        The Planning and Statistics Division has only three professional
staff members. If it is to be fully effective, the Division should have an
additional educational planner, and an educational economist.  Forei gn special-
ists in these areas together with fellowships for training are expected to be
provided by bilateral donors.
7.        The Research and Curriculum Development Division is operating
satisfactorily in science, mathematics and development studies, and has made
a beginning in improving curricula in domestic science and agriculture. With
the planned introduction of practical subjects in the secondary curriculum,
the Division needs assistance froi specialists in commercial training, rural
education, and pre-vocational training. These would be provided as a part of
the project.
8.        The Ministry of Education is responsible for the budget of the
University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland, but exercises virtually no
control over its courses or programs, although it is represented on its
Governing Council. Each country has its own branch campus (both Botswana
and Swaziland offer only the first two years of degree work), but the budgets
of all three units are administered by the Vice-Chancellor at the Roma Campus
in Lesotho. This tri-national sharing of the budget leads to differences of
opinion regarding expenditures and occasional difficulties regarding salary
scales and other matters. However, the sharing of costs has advantages since
at this stage of development none of the three countries could afford to
support a national university on its own.
Structure
9.        The school year runs from January to December.  Primary education
begins at the age of six and extends over seven years (grades 1-7). There



Page 3
are still large numbers of over-age students (34% above 12 year of age) in
the primary schools but enrollment of older students is gradually being phased
out as the,system expands toward universal primary education. Only one of the
1,087 primG.rv schools is directly controlled by the Government, and 15 otihers
by Committees with Government's representation. The secondary course of five
vears comprises three years in lower (grades 8-10) and two years in upper
secondary schools (grades 11-12).  Entrance to both levels is by cormpetitive
examination.  At the end of the lower secondary course (grade 10), a Janior
Certificate (JC) examination is offered. At the end of the upper seconcary
course (grade 12), the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (C3SC) exar--
nation is offered.  Both examinations are set and administer2d by a ]oca.
Examination Council, but are broadly patterned on British exau,s.
io.       Vocational courses follow lower secondary education and are    xc£
t.ree years duration (grades 11-13).  Technician training, a three year
post-secondary course, one year of which is on the Job,  1r-ee           -4- as
recently been introduced in provisional facilities at the  LTI   Poe
secondary education also includes the Lesotho Agricultural Co1^ege-
10-12) and post-secondary education includes the Advanced Teac ier Tratr-,-
College (grades 13-16) at UBLS.  University entry is by examinatio'  anL
selection by a Scholarship Committee.  Very few students (approximaza L^7
p.a.) go overseas for higher education.
General Education
~11       Primary education (grades 1-7) is conducted in Sesocho 'the l-ocal
language) from grade 1 to grade 4, but schools use English as language of
instruction in grades 5 to 7.  In 1973 total enrollment was 197,700 equ'va-
lent to 65% of the 6-12 age group. About 60% of the pupils are gir.ls s-ince
many of the boys work on farms or as herdsmen. All schools, w'hethner is
sion controlled or not, are subsidized by Government.  The sysrem ott auto-
matic promotion has recently been adopted, but dropout rates are high (over
20%) particularly after grade 3 when at the age of 10-11, boys leave schooi
to earn a livelihood on the land.
12.       Some schools are very small, but efforts are being made to ccnsoli-
date the smaller units. A teaching force of 4,000 gives a teacher-?upil
ratio of 1:45.  In view of existing financial constraints, this rat-lo is
reasonable. Over 40% of the teachers are regarded as unqualified by Govern-
ment standards and a major program of in-service training is underway to
improve teacher qualifications.  The planned National Teacher College `(para
22) will accelerate this process.  The position in March 1972 as zx  teacherkns'
qualifications in primary schools is presented in Table 1.



A.PPENDIX 1
Page 4
Table 1
Unqualified Teachers in Primary Schools
Males                 Females                  Total
267                   1,050                   1,317
Qualified Teachers in Primary Schools
1,162                 1,457                    2,619
Total Primary Teachers            3,936
In Maseru, the capital, the proportion of unqualified teachers to the total
number of teachers is about half the national average.
13.       The primary school curriculum includes Sesotho, social studies,
mathematics, general knowledge, science, and English. A new program for
training teachers in mathematics and science is operating under Unesco
guidance.
14.       General secondary education (grades 8-12) with a total enrollment
of 12,560 in 1973, accounted for 8% of the 13-18 age group. Eighty percent
were enrolled in lower-secondary and 20% in upper-secondary courses. Forty-
eight percent of those enrolled were boys.
15.       The teaching language is English.  There are 549 teachers, 112 of
whom are expatriates. There are 144 unqualified teachers and as in primary
education, a program is underway to improve teacher qualifications and skills.
Table 2 summarizes the position as to teachers' qualifications in March 1972.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
Table 2
Teachers in Secondary Schools by Qualification,
and Proprietor
Degree           A.T.C.              Total
PH +      Qualified    Unquali-    All
Proprietor          Science    Othcr    COSC /1    teachers         fied    Teachers
Evangelical Mission   7          17       22          46            20          66
Roman Catholic
Mission             17         47       51         115            79         194
Anglican Mission       2          8        10         20             3          23
Other missions         1          2         7         10            22          32
Government             3         15         3         21             3          24
Committee              6         10        19         35            17          52
Total            36         99      112         247           144         391
/1   A.T.C.    =  Advanced Teacher Certificate.
P.H.      =  Primary Higher Teacher Certificate.
C.O.S.C.  =  Cambridge Overseas School Certificate.
Note:    The above figures refer to teachers at the 40 "recognized" secondary
schools, i.e., teachers of "non-recognized" schools and evening
classes have been excluded.
Source: Ministry of Education, Statistics Unit.
16.       The curriculum is overly literary and a curriculum reform program
is to be introduced with emphasis upon agriculture, industrial arts, handi-
crafts and domestic science. In addition, major revisions of the science and
mathematics courses and related teacher training are in process. The planned
National Teachers College will add force and direction to these efforts.
17.       Vocational Secondary and Post-Secondary Education are offered in
eight secondarv schools and in the Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI). The
eight secondary schools offer industrial arts and domestic science courses
catering to 60 boys anid 220 girls.



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
The LT! offers three-year courses in carpentry, electricity, con-
struction, engineering and motor mechanics open to post-lower secondary stu-
dents.  The annual output is approximately 30.  There are 16 qualified in-
structors in the five subject areas. As indicated in para 11, post-secondary
training at the technician level has recently been introduced with a three-
year course, one year of which would be in supervised industrial experience.
t9.       The only training in business and administration now available is
offered by the Civil Service Training Center for government employees. These
courses are, for the most part, short courses in clerical, ski's.  I few
management courses have been given for government supervisors and administra-
tive officers.  It is planned to reorganize this type of training to include
a wider range of specialities and to make it available to private as well as
public employees.
20.       In addition to the courses described above, other specialized pre-
service and in-service courses are offered by certain Ministries. The Minis-
try of Health administers a four-year nursing training program whnch is ex-
pected to be considerably expanded as a part of a UBLS College, The Ministry
of Works and Communications offers in-service training in construction and
communications. The Government Printer operates a training program for
workers in the printing trades.
21.       Agricultural Secondary Education is offered by the Lesotho Agri-
cultural College (LAC) to post-lower secondary students. This is a two-year
course for a Certificate in Agriculture (men) and a Certificate in Rural
Domestic Economy (women). In 1972, there were 57 men and 28 women enrolled,
but LAC is being expanded to 250 student capacity with bilateral assistance
(para 3.09).  Each year 10 male g6.aduates are selected to go on for a third-
year Diploma course at the Swaziland Agricultural College University Center
(a branch of UBLS). It is planned that the technical content of the teacher
training program for teachers of agricultural and domestic science subjects
for secondary schools will also be taught at the LAC.  Pedagogy will be
taught at the National Teacher College (para. 22).
22.       Primary and Secondary Teacher Training is provided by seven mission
colleges and by UBLS. The enrollment of the mission colleges is about 300
with an annual output of 150. Some of the mission colleges are too small
to be efficient and a rationalization program is under consideration. A
project supported by the UNDP, Denmark and the United Kingdom will build
and equip a National Teachers College to consolidate the teacher training
programs. The National Teachers College (planned capacity: 550 student
places) is scheduled for completion in 1975 and will adecuately meet Lesotho's
teacher needs if the existing Teacher Colleges continue to operate. The
lower-secondary school certificate is required for entry into the three-year
higher-primary Teacher Certificate Program.  A COSC (para. 9) plus two years
of training is required for the lower-secondary Teacher Certificate. A



APPENDIX i
Page 7
graduate or diploma course in education from UBLS is required for the Higher
Secondary Teacher Certificate: about 25 are now enrolled in the UBLS programs.
23.       Technical Teacher Training.  In the past, technical teachers have
either been expatriates or trained overseas. It is now planned that the tech-
nical content required for industrial arts and commercial subjects teachers
in the secondary schools will be provided by LTI and LIBA and the pedagogy
by the National Teacher Training College.
24.       University Education.  UBLS was founded in 1964) on the campus of
a former Roman Catholic University.  In 1972, there were 1;50 Lesothc studen:s
at the Lesotho campus of UBLS out of a total enrollment of 375.  Thie balanca
is made up of students from Botswana and Swaziland.  The UBLS facuity inc-iudes
75 members. Besides a Bachelor of Arts program, the Lesotho branch of the
University offers degrees in administration, economics, law, science and
education. Forty-five percent of the students are female. The Lesotho
campus is at Roma, 20 miles southeast of Maseru. The UBLS extramural programs
under the Department of Extramural Studies, has become active in adult educa-
tion, particularly in the field of accounting. The Faculty of Education
plays an increasingly important role in all three countries in currfcul un
reform and teacher training. Teacher certification and the Examination
Council are both under the direction of UBLS. The University has a strong
commitment to assist in the development of the three countries and is estab-
lishing close working relationships with both the public and the private
sectors. There are no immediate plans for the establishment of graduate
studies. As indicated at para. 8, recurrent expenses of UBLS are pro-rated
among the three countries and funds are channelled through the budgets of
the Miniistries of Education. Capital funds, and some staff salary funds, are
provided by bilateral donors, primarily Canada, Denmark, the United Kingd3m,
and the United States. A university planning team from Denmark is assisting
in the preparation of the second phase oP the development plan of UBLS.
25.       National CoLeg.es.  As the result of a recent pre-investnent s;cu-l
by the Overseas Liaison Committee of the American Council of Education, :e i
three countries (Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland) are giving serious con-
sideration to the establishment in each country of a new institution which
would be called the "National College." The function of thie College would
be to coordinate all of the institutions offering non-degree, post-secondary
education: teacher training, technician training, business training, para-
medical training, agricultural training and the first two years of Universizy
education. The benefits of this c.onsolidation would be: (a) sharing of
instructional services; (b) reduced staffing costs; (c) sharing of serv:cez
and facilities; (d) larger class sizes and better facility and sta,f utili-
zation; (d) improved educational quality; and (f) a more cohesive and res-
ponsive means of providing for middle level manpower needs.  T'he Cabinets oz
Lesotho and Swaziland have both approved the National College n pnei;e.
The proposed project would be in harmony with the National ColLege coacep,.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8
Non-Formal Education
26.       Adult Education has developed rapidly in the last few years but
in an uncoordinated fashion. A few evening courses are offered in some of
the secondary schools and by the UBLS Department of Extra-mural studies.
The estimated total enrollment in these evening classes is 500. The Govern-
ment has recognized the importance of expanding and diversifying this program
and last year entered into an agreement with the International Extension
College (UK) to develop and expand the adult education program. Work on this
project has proceeded rapidly and the new program will be launc1:ed in 1974
using temporary quarters. Staff and facility limitations will restrict the
initial efforts to academic courses for preparation to JC and COSC. Once
fully developed, the main thrust of the program will be vocationally oriented,
directed toward the needs of the rural population and the re-training of
those now in urban employment.
27.       In Lesotho, as well as in other developing countries, the area of
agricultural extension service and non-formal training for rural development
presents a complex picture of several separate initiatives by many agencies
and of lack of adequate coordination. The principal offerings are summarized
in Table 3 below:
Table 3
Non-Formal Education for- Rural Development
in Lesotho
Target
Typ  of Course         Institution           Agency       Population
1. Agricultural      Farmer Training      Ministry of   Farmers and wives
Training          Centers              Agriculture
2. Extension         Field Staff          Ministry of   Farmers
Service                                Agriculture
3. Development of   Cooperative           Ministry of   Farmers
Cooperatives      Centers              Agriculture
4. Health            Health Clinics       Ministry of   Total
Education                              Health         Population
5. Nutrition         Nutrition            Ministry of   Rural population
Training          Centers              Agriculture
6. Community         Centers              Secretary to  Rural population
Development                            Cabinet
7. Youth Training   Youth Centers         Secretary to  Youths
Cabinet



APPENDIX ^i
Page 9
As can be noted, there is a wide variety of offerings and under various
agencies which makes coordination difficult. This list does not include
rural education provided as a part of integrated agricultural development
projects such as the IDA-assisted Thaba Bosiu project.
28.       Farmer Training Centers (FTC) courses were attended by 1,300 adults
and 120 youths in 1972. Four centers are in operation and a fifth is planned
for 1975. The major obstacle to further expansion is lack of qualified teach-
ing staff. The projected expansion of the Lesotho Agricultural College should
provide che staff required and permit further expansion. Most of the courses
are short (one week) although the course for young farmers runs for nine months.
Women make up 75%O of the attendance which accounts for the heavy emphasis on
home econom4cs courses (Table 4). The Government plans to incorporate the
FTCs into its future rural education program.
Table 4
Summary of Courses at the Four FTCs
(1971)
No. of            Attendance
Subject                   Courses       Men          Women            Total
1.  Home Economics           11           4            367             371
2.  Cooperatives              6         52            106              158
3.  Summer Crops              4          55            39               94
4.  Poultry                   4         16             124             140
5.  Veg. Production           3         20            114              134
6.  Farmers Associations    3           20             44               64
7.  Credit Unions             3         23              59              82
8.  Winter Crops              2          10             34              44
9. Youth Leaders              2         21              79             100
10. Farm Machinery            1           6              -               6
11. Women Association         1           -             38              38
12. Teachers Seminar          1         24             16               40
Total              41         251          1L920           1X271
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.
29.       Extension Services, Cooperatives, Health and Nutrition training
efforts are concentrated in the rural areas. There are only 51 extension
offices and it is planned to expand this number to 150 by 1980. There are
48 health centers, 18 cooperative centers and 20 nutrition centers. These
centers are widely scattered and do not share common facilities in the rural
areas. This presents difficulties in any effort to effect coordination and
increases the cost of all of these programs.



X ?2kDAL I
Page i 0
30.       Rural "outh Training is carried out by two agencies:  the Ministry
of Agriculture arid the Cabinet Office.  There are 120 youths of both sexes
enrolled in nine-month courses at the Farmer Training Cenr.ers and 90 at the
Lesotho Youth Training Center in a 10-month course operated by the Cabinet
Office. The efforts in this area are small in comparison, with the number of
school Lea>vers p .a. A coordinated program, expDanded to make part-time use
of secondary schools, is required. Tne Cooperat ve Program is designed to
implemient a national system of farmer cooperatives. There are 20 coo.erative
education officers and t'hey make use of Farmer Training Cenrters and schools
for their training activities.
31.       Non-formal Academic Training is provided on a  imilted scale by some
secondary schools and by the UBLS Department of Extra-mural Studies.  The
secondary school courses are given in the evening and provide instruction
toward J.C, and C.O.S.C. certificates, The UBLS courses are in economics
and accounting. Total enrollment is about 500.
Financing of Education
32,       General.  Education is financed in part by the Government and in
part the missionary societies. The Government's total recurrent expenditure
in 1972/73 amounted to R 12.8 milliorn, of which R 2.7 miJllion was expended
by the Ministry of Education, and about R 200,000 for educational activities
under other Ministries. Therefore, education accounted for some 22% of
Govermnent recurrent expenditure.  Estimates of education expenditures from
other sources are highly unreliable and total amounts are artificially
increased by salaries and allowances of foreign teachers and specia7lists
provided under bilateral aid schemes.  An estimate workec out by the 13ESCO/
ILO policy planning mission tentatively puts "private expenditures" on-, educa-
tion at as much as R 2.1 million in 1972/73. However, known incorae and
expenditures on education by missionary societies in 1971 are reported as
considerably below this figure. Official data on foreign aid to education
are presented in Table 5 below:
Table 5
External Aid to Education by Level of Education
(1968/69 - 1971/72)
Level                1968/69    1969/70    1970/71       1971/72     Total
'-------          (000 Rand)----------------------
Primary               164.4       89.8       208.9         76,8      539.9
Secondarv              95.3      117.3       271.7        126.4      610.7
Teacher Traininig      30.8         1.4       19.9         35.0       87.1
[U.B.I .. S. /1  z     o20.0      20.0       189.1        5'0.0      749.1
Total          310.5       228.5       689.6       758.2    1,986.8
/1   For all three countries participating in the University.
Source: Ministry of Education.



A2?EKDIX I
Page I 1
Excluding the share of Botswana and Swaziland in UBLS total financing, non-
government expenditure on education in 1972 can be estimated at a total of
R 1 million, or half the UNESCO/ILO tentative estimate. In brief, including
foreign assistance, private and public expenditures on education in 1972
can be assessed at about R 3.7 million or about 6.5% of GNP. Without foreign
assistance, an item inflated by remunerations and services to expatriate
teachers and specialists, education is estimated to absorb 4.8% of GNP, a
ratio in line with many developing countries.
33.       The distribution of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expendi-
ture in 1972/73 is given in the following Table 6 which shows the high propor-
tion of expenditure absorbed by the item "Other Operating Costs." This is
explained by the fact that the Government's grants to the missions and to
teachers' salaries are included in this item.
Table 6
Ministry of Education - Recurrent Expenditures, 1972/73
Travel    Office &      Other    Special
Personal     and       Administ-  Operating  Expendi-
Emoluments  Transport   ration        Costs       ture      Total
--------------------------('000 Rand)-------------------------
Amount            216.7       20.3        12.8        2,421.8      2.3    2,673.9
% of Total          8.1          .76        .48          90.6       .09     100%
34.       Fees at the primary level are presentlv charged by all schools.
The Government has standardized fees on an ascending scale from R 1.00 per
annum per child in grade 1 to R 3.50 per annum per child in grade 7, but
plans to abolish all primary school fees from April 1974, when it will assume
direct responsibility for the payment of all primary and secondary school
teachers to be financed, in part, by a newly established "education-tax" of
R 2.50 p.a. per adult able-bodied male. It is estimated that the 1974 revenue
from this tax will amount to R 740,000, as compared to the present fee income
of some R 3009000.
35.       Secondary school fees vary from school to school; for day students
they range from R 34.0 to R 105.5 annually and for boarders, from R 58.0 to
128.0 per annum. The average fee per day student is R 61.4; for boarders it
is R 101.5 per annum.
36.       The comparatively high level of fees have kept unit-recurrent costs
to the Government at a comparatively low level; e.g., the cost to the Govern-
ment per pupil year in primary school is about R 8 p.a. and in secondary
school some R 35 p.a.






APPENDIX 2
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        To assist in staff development andl implementation of the project,
79 man-years of specialist services and 80 man-years of fellowships are
required.
2.        The distribution of specialists and fellowships by field and financing
agency would be as follows:
Number of     Specialists   Fellowship   Financing
SpAcialists     man-years    man-years      Agancy
Lerotholi Technical Institute
Plumbing instructors              2               6            2       Goldfield
Mining Corp.
Automotive instructors            3              11            3       Federal
Reptblic A f
Germma;y
Maintenance mechanics             3              10            3       Federal
instructors                                                           Republic of
Germany
Civil engineering tech-           1               3            0       ODA
nician instructor
Electrical engineering            1               3            0       ODA
technician instructor
Mechanical engineering            1               3            0       ODA
technician instructor
Lesotho Institute of Business
and Administration
Clerical instructors              2              6             0       ODA
Commercial subjects               2               6            0       ODA
instructors
Management instructors            2               6            0       ODA



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Lesotho National
Extension College
Administrator                      1               3            0        IEC
Educational broadcasting           1               3             0       IEC
specialist
Correspondence course              1               3            0        IEC
materials specialist
Secondary School Practical
Subject Program (Local Instructors)
Woodworking instructors            6               0            12       Canada
Metal-working instructors          6               0           12        Canada
Agriculture instructors            6               0            12       Canada
Handicraft instructors             6               0           12        Canada
Domestic Science instructors       6               0           12        Canada
Weaving/needlecraft                6               0            12       Canada
instructors
tinistry of Education Staff
Rural education specialist         1               3            0        Canada
Practical studies director         1               3            0        Canada
Director of the                   1               3             0        Canada
Teaching Service
Project Implementation Unit
Project Director                   1               4            0        IDA /1
Procurement Officer                1               3             0       IDA /1
/_   Included in project administration cost estimate.



00                                                                                     I
-  .4  .4  3  10  -   .4     0
a  o.  -          10  .4
40
01010    .4
LffiliL ----  --                     --                      -s
I a                                                                                                      040      0
l0.4011000  0    '.4  .  .4   -.   .4  .               _     .4   .4    .4    .4   .4   .4   .4   .4  .40.4    .4
0o1-0  0.41         I         4     .4   .4   .4    '        .4  -         .4   .4
V 40  0 00                                                                                             34
O 00 0                                                                  _____________              0   04
V  4 .4 0                                                                                              00300
0041 0'-
04000.44.4         .4 4 00 .4    .4.4.44.4  '.4 .4  .4.4.4.4.40.4'1'.4  .4 .4
040.41"   0044      4     0                          "                                          -l
0.400                     .4                    $4  
___  __   _____                                        
00                     4                   .4 '
.4...'' 4 "
410                           .4'                                          .4          -j
43000"' 01  .4 .4 .4.... . . 0.
004401.0 01...... . "--                                                            4              4001.440-0.4
0000.40-.-4 .4 '                                                . -.4  "'
41                             .4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4'0.4.4.4.4.40.
<44440.001
44                   .    41             4       10
.4  .4  .    .4  .4  .4  .4  .4  .4  .4
010  04--                        .4   .4                 01   0.       .4   .4                      .4
01 004  .4 .4 .4  .4  '0 .4 .4 .4...4 .4                                          .4
.4  0                     01    01    01             01      01            01                    .44
0           '    4  '   .4    "'   '0                                 '   '   .4              40
.4 .4................4.4
0 4.....10 4 4 4 .4.                                     .            01 .4 .4 .4 .4    .4
0.0      .4            .4          4             .4    .4       .0            .4
0 .4 33
0   4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 .4 4 .4.- ' 4 ' 4 .4                                                      4.40 0
.
3-3-413
0          -  0           0       -.4     .4
0       01  0      0           0  0           1       0  0     .4
0  .4    .4  .4      01     0  0  'I  -0  0  0  .4  0    0  .4    01                     .4.4
4  0          01            .4    .4  4  .4  0  .4  0  0    0  0        0
0 0   0 0 0 0 01 000040  0.0 '0 0 0 4
000010000 0 0 0 0 0 000000 4
0.4'0l00                    .4 0 oo 434133   040103
4444144100440.4433 4o1g4.444                                                       .4
.4.4..4.4.4.4.4.4.4-0.4
.400   0 01  .40.4.4               3                             400
0.400  00.400.4.4   0  '0
".440000                            0   0.4.4 .4 00    '00  000.4  0000
01 0.4'-0.000                      00               0   0.40 .4.4
00.40  0000000    04                    00000.40000000
0-0100400  .40  00                                        000.4.4000
.00000410'00                              0'        04-000000.4.4-00
00.00"  .400             0.4.40   000   0-00100  >2.40   000.4
0'000' 0000.40.40.000    0                                .40--Ok .4000  0.404
I        .4.4.400    -   0                                    .4   0   0.4    -
$4 o$t4"                                           001   0 01.4.4
.400  -40.4-' 000.4  00     001000                  0--
"'$4'
.40.400,0 00.4o000   o       0  0.4                             00  0.4.00
-.040  0.4                  0400   .4               0.4   040100  000000
00000  110-                                                     0-0.4  0
413.3 - 3            .4..4                      0.4 .4 001        01.4.4
0 4>230                                        .401  0000
040.40400000                    .400-000                 001   0401000000.400
00'.4.'1001'000                                    0.4   004010.4000.4.4






L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Middle Level Manpower
Stock, Reguirements and S_pply, 1973-195
Supply from
Education/training
Stock     Addi-  Replacement of  Attri-                   Institutions
1973     tional   Expatriates      tion     Total           1 973 - 85
Technician                                 270       550         80           80        710           400
Craft                                    1,100     2,300        160          330     2,790            900
Agriculture (certificate level)            440       560         25          130        715            650
Business and administration              1,650     1,300        500          500     2,300          1,600
Teachers                                 3,300     1,600        200        1,100      2,900         2,500
Total                                    6,760     6,310        965        2,140      9,415         6,050
Source:  Prepared by Bank staff on the basis of ODA manpower survey aPnd ILO survey of major establish-
ment. Rates of growth in employment by occupational category are based on IBRD "Report on
the Econoniy of Lesotho", 1973. Attrition rates assUiDe an average working life of 30 years.
It is to be noted that.the categories in which shortages are expected to become more acute
are those of technicians and industrial skilled workerb; as institutional supply is expected
to meet about half of the total projected need of these categories, on-the-job training,
strengthened by non-formal and evening courses, would have to take up the slack.
a2






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
The General Education System, 1972
Primary Schools:
Number of schools                  .......    ...............   1,087
Total Enrollment  .. Males 72,787, Females 107,617    Total .. l8o,404
As a percentage of the 6-12 years age group          ..................  65%
Enrollment by Grade:
Grade                      1        2       3        4       5        6       7
Enrollment               44,467  33,848  29,953  22,953  21,207  16,073  12,422
Drop-out Rate             18.2    5.5      20.6    8.3      23.3    28.5   14.2
Number passing Grade 7 Examination = About 7,000
Primary Teachers:
Total number                    .                   3,936
Number without teaching Certificates .........   1,317
Teacher turnover         ................    20% p.a. (approx.)
Student/teacher ratio ...................            1:44.8
Salary range (1973) (annual)       n.................   M. = US$603.00
Max. = US$1,602.00
Secondary Schools:
Number of schools  .... ...........  56
Total Enrollment  ....      ...........   12,575
As a percentage of the 13-18 age group .         8%
Enrollment by Grade
Grade                        1      2 1       3  |4 |  5     Total    Male   Female
1972                       3,974 3,089 1,668  603   435   10,489   4,909   5,580
1973                       4,373 3,578 3,209  847   568   12,575 1 5,976   6,599
Drop-out Rate (1972)        _
% failing examinations      7.7   13.9  58.7  8.7  15.0
Number Receiving Certificates: Junior Certificate Level: 1,295
C.0.S.0. Level           s    390



ANNEX 3
page 2 of 2 pages
Secondary Schools (Cont'd)
Total Number of teachers                            549.......................    9
Number of expatriate teachers  s....   112
Number of uncertified teachers .... 239
Teacher Salary Range (Annual):
Minimum                   Maximum
1972              R 520 (US$780)             R 2,592 (US$3,888)
1973              R 852 (US$1,278)           R 4,440 (us$6,660)
(degree)          R 1,858 (US$2,787)         R 4,440 (US$6,660)
Teacher/Student Ratio:    1:22.7
Weekly School Hours:
Primary      .......                          30 hours
Secondary                       ....... .     35 hours
Vocational                                    40 hours
Weekly Teaching (contact) Hours:
Primary                              .......*............e.so.es  26 hours
Secondary                                     28 hours
Vocational  ............                      35 hours
Length of School Year:
Primary  ...............*.**..*.*   38 weeks
Secondary                                     36 weeks
Vocational                                    40 weeks
Number of Science laboratories available (Secondary) = 42
Num br of pre-vocational shops available (Secondary)  =   4
Number of Home Science laboratories (Secondary)        =   4
Number of Commercial Training facilities (Secondary)  =   4
Source: Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of data by the
Ministry of Education.



L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Education
Recurrent Expenditures and Enrollments
(Enrollments in thousand)
1970/71                             1972773
Actual                              Estimate
Type                         Rl)1000       %      Enrollments      RxlOOO        %      Enrollments
Primary education                      1,234.0    59.3        177.00         1,223.0    45.6       190.00
Secondary education                      268.b    12.9          9.70          397.6    14.9          12.50
Technical education                       72.4      3,5         0.10            76.9      2.9         0.12
Teacher training                          90.1      4.3         0.50           102.0      3.8         0.56
University                               30o08     14.7         0.18           641.0    24.O          0.20
Non-formal education                      39.9      1.9         0.50            98.1      3.7         0.50
Administration                            71.0      3.4          -             135.1      5.1          _
TOTAL                               2,080.6   100.0                       2,673.7   100.0
% Government expenditure                 i6.9%                                 21.9%
Source: Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Education.
S0



I



L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Plan
Enrollment Projections and Expenditures
127M-1975                   1979-1980                      1984-1985
Expansion of the System on  Expansion of the System on   Expansion of the System on
the basis of- _             the basis of:                  the basis of:
Past         Present          Past         Present          Past         Present
Trends        Targets        Trends         lgets          Trends         Targets
Enrollment:
Primary                        195,000        195,000        226,700        226,700        256,500        256,500
Secondary                       1)4,500        13,500         23,000         16,500         33,000         19,500
Technical                           180           260             180           560             180           560
Teacher Training                    712           672          1,158            938           1,490           946
University                          210           210            463            310             713           410
Non-formal                          500         2,000             500         6,ooo             500         8,000
Recurrent Expenditure (Rand):
Primary                      2,582,600      1,504,300       4,159,300     1,927,300      5,504,100      2,407,600
Secondary                      860,000        388,500      1,385,000        527,600       1,980,000       684,500
Technical                      126,000        182,000        154,400        432,800         188,500       477,800
Teacher Training               104,900         99,400         189,000       153,100         268,500       170,500
University                      718X000       525,000      1,156,300        668,500       1,78,300        762,700
Non-formal                       42$100       204,000          67,300       225,200         109,000       248,700
Administration                   76,700       128,500         141,900       141,900         200,800       156,600
'TOTAL                  4L510300       3   700           3          )710                 ,2008 1oo
As a percentage of total
Goveryment recurrent            30.o^ 08                      2:8 L2-.      21.             40.2%         I9L.%
expenditures                                                   _.        _ __
Source.  Bank staff estimates on ta  basis of data by Ministry of Ed)cation, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of
Finanee and Utiesoo/iL0 eucation pAl.Acy planning mission report.



L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Capacity and Staff of Project Schools
Student Places         Boarding Places         Teaching Staff            Staff Houses
Added                   Added                   Added                   Added
School              Exist-   by             Exist-   by             Exist-   by             Exist-   by
ing__ Project Total      n    Project Total   ing       oec  Total ig          Project Total
Lerotholi Technical
Institute                      120      240     360    94       176    270      16       16      32     19       22      41
Lesotho Institute of
Business Administration         70      130     200      0       80     80       6        2      15     -0    12         12
Lesotho National Extension
College (part-time)              0   (4,000) (0000)    0          0       0      0        6       6L2    0        6       6
Secondary Schools
1. Butha Buthe               299      169     468   113         0    113      11       11      22     11        1      12
2. Holy Name                 278      190     468   256         0    256      14        8      22     14        1      15
3. Eagle's Peak              290      178     468   223         0    223      15        7      22     15        1      16
4. St. Stephen's             231      201     432   124         0    124      11       11      22     11         1     12
5. Sacred Heart              273      195     468    66         0       0     17        6      23     13         1     14
6. Lesotho                   321      147  |468   215           0    215      14        9      23     12         1     13
/   Non-teaching staff.
Source:  World Bank Group staff on the basis of project  preparation data supplied by the Ministry of Education.



L-ESITHO
028(2TIO0N PRO-ET
S, f,2   -1  t-Re2d  -r2-e. ..92
C'000 022d0
C0-  fO B,,020ld-               T-I         ~              ,8  -O,e.          Cn, 2   7a202,r-92,                                C2,92,  2,fni2-                T-RI
________________________________H                                                                   0292,--2 T-d-,                        C",, ,0         ill       Sil. .-         -d-822                               C-,   2   4,-d-,,                                2,1   ,0       70-2,2022
2,22,20  Ore,,         N~~~~,       (92)~   V2. 2   S,.,S2, aO                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                                                                               0,-I  -f  ,. Pf- -
001,130  0)      .9.,               R     .,    C222 -    &             -             o,8i822-                Revel         4,0        -          1     -          0S   t         ,,-).        &2-2                               297- in022,.                   O,fSslnn           A20,4,-222292                         '3
0.226,0    ..(Cr2ft  T2,0,0i9g        (9                  120        250         439.9        47 3        296.0       143.0      044.8         487.2          42.0         029.2        09.          9.6        9.4           382.4       303.4                   2.2          305.6          873.2                                 509.7
2.  49222ll2  T.. j(T119i,i0,-0,                  0                    -         'I0           03.2                    2 9.0          -       54.2          83.2           8.I3.0                   3.5           -         4.3           7.0          85.2                   0.0           20.2          0,                                     90.0
3.  4,,,12,, Onet. 02 8284282, Adel,.  28)          ~72         80         100.2          -          46.0           -       54.2         000.2           10.0        010.8        4.2           -         4.3            92.3         6.0          -          .0           8.4          222.7               5.2              080.0
T.,,C,,,22,. 2292,eO,,e8   2,12      (9`                   -         020         100.6          -         56.4                   54.2         1192.6          12.9        122.5         8.0                    4.3           22.4         25.5                   I 92.         292.5         081.4
T-6 ,22                                                   70        200         210.1                   I 00.4                  1038.4       210.9            23.5        233.3       12.3                    8 .6          30.9          32.9                   2.0           34.9         289.1                                 2920.0                             '022 
3.        h.,26  0222222  n--i-la                 (N6                  -      4.020            75.9                    213.6                  5 4.2         23.9            8.2         84.0        2.1                     4,3            2.4         00.          -           .0          11.2          102.2                                  99.0
Sab T.'0'2                                                          4,020         7_5.- 8                   22.6                   54.2          75.8            8.7        -84.0          .0                    4.3            6.2,        12.2          -          .0   --      1.I 2        200.                                   900                                0'     
2 ,4,2361,h-1.
6.  B2,I,b,,2h, HO.S.                                                 299        482          102.7        3.2        122.9                   10.3        133.2,           13.6        147.0       10.4           .          .0          10.2          39.4         ..2                     292.4         292.0
2.  2222,  -2,2 H.0.                             007                  279        442          130.0         -         129.5                   10.5        10.0.            02.0        132.0        8.0                .      8.          92.9         99.4         -           .2          90.3         179.5
9.   Jeol-  72,6 H.S.                             (2                  220        262           88.0       10.4         92.8                   10.3          99.3           10.1        109.'4       9.M                      .9            9.0         07.3                     .2          37.9          152.2
6.  22. Sope          .2.                         (0)                 201        2,3'         212.9        2.6        107.0           .       10.5         107.5           10.0        228.0        8.0                      .8            8.9         39.7          -.2                    39.9          227.3
00.   --,2.22 ee-2 n.                              (2 73                          466           20.39         .4        64.0           .       10.5          74.5            6.0         00.5         7.3          .           .4           92.2        32.2                     .2          32.4          122.0
01.   H,2,,2      s.S .                            02                   020       402           23.          3.8        20.4           -       18.5         080.             8.         1209.4        9.8          .                        0.2     1__7.3 I                             ___ 3,            0527.3
0,6  2,,,1                                2 2~~~~~~~~~~,092  0,772   622.5       20.0       522.3                    63.0        640.6            81.3        708.9       50.0                     4.92         57.4        224.86                   1.0          005.8         090.1                                  36.0
-2,1 A -                                                 I2   8222 733f.         1.432.2       70.4        034.2       043.8      424.6      1 .502.6          140.2      1,640.8        29.9         2.8       31.4          10.          121.1          -         7.          663.3        2.439. 2                                993.2
(,2    Lp2,l2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,245.0
202  F1311-2,2.1  52ri,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.2
7,)  ,11, ,62 9   (1 -,1)                 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.36.0
226 3,2,0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 337.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,3.
3  82,2,1242222  9,22  211                                                                                                                                                                                                                   142.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 
2  2222222  4212 2-22,,,,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  233,3            203.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.  33L - -
H92 j  -2222  T-12 fle1 22',644.8                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.9                                               9233-4.1                                          1,570.3
2a20l,.0,,,,Oee                                                                                                                        3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.3  56.9                                           207.6                             85.7
P-2(82   2222                                                                                                                                                                     2,564.1                                             187,0                                              621.0                            3..             1.570,3
000021:  '.0,Id  -k2 SIL,f






L  E  S  0  T  H  0                                                                                                                                   ANNEX 8
EDUCATION PROJECT
Financing Plan
Rand '000                                  Rand 'OS0                                Rand '000                                        Rand '000
IDA/Lesotho Government                     Goldfield OCrPoration                            ODA                                 Federal Republic of Germany
Constr.                                  Constr.                                   Constr.                                      Constr.
Site     Furni-  Equip-   Sub            Site     Furni-  Equip-    Sub            Site       Purni-   Equip-    Sob            Site       Purni-   Equip-    Sub                               Total         Total
Develop. tore    ...ent                           Total                            Developt To tu        ment       Total       Develop.  tore        maent      Total       IEC      CIDA    ('000 Rand)  ('000 US$)
A. Technical and Vocational
1.  Lerotholi TI (Craft Training School)                415.7   35.9   109.3        560.9        18.1      2.1   13.5         34.1          -          -           -          -         95.4        -       182.8      278.2        _         _        873.2
2.  Lerotholi TI (Technician Traindig)                   59.6     4.3       1.0      64.9          -         -       -           -        31.8        3.5       85.0      120.3           -         -           -         --                           185.2
B. Business and Commercial
3.  LIBA (Civil Service Training)                          -       -         -         -           -         -       -           -       110.8        8.5        8.4      127.7           -         -           -         -         -         -        127.7
4.  LIBA (Private Sector Training)                      122.5   12.4       26.5     161.4          -         -       -           -           -         -           -          -            -        -           -          -        -         -        161.4
C. Extension College
5.  LSEC                                                 84.0     6.4      11.2     101.6          -         _       _           _          _          _           _         _            _         _           _         _         _         _        101.6
D. Secondary Schools
Project Itoms  6-11                                     706.9   57.4   225.8        990.1          -         -       -           -           -         -           -          -            -        -           -          -        -         _        990.1
Solb-total A - D                                1,388.7  116.4   373.8  1,878.9            18.1       2.5   13.5         34.1      142.6       12.0        93.4     248.0         95.4        -        182.8     278.2        -         -      2,439.2        3,658.8
E. Technical Assistance
a.   Specialists                                                                                                              40.0                                        270.0                                        525.0      90.0   320.0       1,245.0        1,867.5
b.  Fellov1 hips (Foreign)                                                                                                      2.7                                           -                                         32.0        -      21.3         56.0            84.0
c.  Fello-ships (Locl)                                                                                                           -                                            -                                            -        -      36.0         36.0            54.0
F.  Profe-sional Services                                                                140.0                                      2.0                                          5.1                                           _         _        -         147.1          ZZ0.7
0.  Project Unit Expnoses                                                                233.3                                                                                                                                 -         -        -         233.3          350.0
11.  Total before Contingencies                                                        2,252.2                                     78.8                                        523.1                                        835.2     90.0   377.3       4,156.6         6,235.0
I.  Contingencies/price incroaaes                           917.2-52.4    130.8  1,100.4               6.6      0.8    3.6         11.0       49.1        3.7        24.8       77.6         32.0       -         48.5       80.5        -        -      1,269.5         1,904.3
TOTAL                                                                       3,352.6                                      89.8                                       600.7                                        915.7      90.0   377.3       5,426.1        8,139.3
7 of Total Project                                                                  61.7/1                                     1.6%                                       11.1%                                        16.9%      1.7%     7.0%        100%            100%
/I  TIncludes contingencies end price escalation no  prafessional fees of R 84,000.
/72  Inclndes cntingencies and price escalation on professional Ifce  of R 500.
/3 Includes c-otingen-ies ond price escalation on profess-ioal feei of R 1,200.
Sour-c: Wo-1d BSek staff.






L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Project Unit - Financing Plan
(US$ 000's & Rand OOO's)
Total Cost
Specialists       Fellowships       Project Unit             (tOOO)           %  of
Services       Foreig    Local    Expenses             US$     REnd          Total
us$                                           350.0          350.0
IDA/ Lesotho Governrent  R                                            233.3                       233.3      14.85
ODA                      UqS$     45eO             -         -           -            405.02700               1719
R      270.0            -                                              2
Goldfields Corporation US$          6o.0          4.0        -           -             64.0                    2.71
R       140.0         2.7                                               4  i2.7
German Fed. Republic                                                                                         35.47514.  --83.
R      525.0         32.0        --557.0
Canada                   uS$      480.0          32.0      514.0         -            556.0                  23.00
R      320.0         21.3      36.0           -                        377.3
I.E.C.                   us$       135.0                                 -            135.0                    5.73
R       90.0            -        -            -                         90.0
Total             iUS$    1,867.5          84.0      54.0        350.0         2,355.5                   100%
R    1,245.0          56.0     36.0        233.3                     1,570.3
Source: World Bank staff.






ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of IDAI/Leotho Government Financed Component
The project component jointly financed by the Association and
the Kingdom of Lesotho is estimated to cost US$5.03 million as follows:
Project Item
No.                          Project Item
Lerotholi Technical Institute
Craft Training Section
New Buildings: Drawing office, two carpentry
workshops, two electrical work-
shops, compressor/generator
room, science prep. room.
Dormitory facilities for 70
males, 80 females and ablutions
for 350 students, dining/multi-
purpose room. Staff dining,
kitchen/teaching kitchen.
Thirteen staff housing units.
Renovation:     Four classrooms, general
science laboratory, trowel
trades building, furniture
production unit, conversion
of classroom to library.
Estimated cost $     623.5oo
Furniture:                    Estimated cost $       53,850
Equipment:                    Estimated cost $      164,ooo
2          Lerotholi Technical Institute
Technician Training Section
New Buildings: Six staff housing units,
furniture and equipment
Estimated cost $       97,350



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
Project Item
No.                     Project Item
4           Lesotho Institute of Bhsiness
Administration
New Baildings:  Commercial rooms, micro-office,
secretarial room, five class-
rooms, ablution, five staff
rooms, six staff housing units
Estimated cost $      183.750
Furniture:                     Estimated cost $       18,600
Equipment:                    Estimated cost $        39,750
5           Lesotho National Extension College
New Buildings: Five offices, duplicating facilities,
broadcast preparation rooms, conference
room, six staff houses
Estimated cost $      126,000
Furniture:                     Estimated cost $        9,600
Equipment:                     Estimated cost $       16,800
Secondary Schools:
6 to 11           Batha-Bathe, Holy Names, Eagles Peak,
St. Stephens, Sacred Heart, Lesotho
High School
Baildings, furniture and equipment
for pre-vocational, agricultural,
handicrafts and domestic science
training in the above schools. One
senior staff house per institution
Buildings:                    Estimated cost $ lo1g06 ,3l
Furniture:                     Estimated cost $       86,100
Equipment:                    Estimated cost $       338,700



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
Project Item
No.                   Project Item
Professional Fees
Architectural services
. Estimated cost        $   210,000
Project Unit Expenditures    Estimated cost        $  349,950
Contingencies
Allowances for
unforeseen events and
price increases during
the implementation
period                             $ 1,650.600
Total                $5.03 million
Source: World Bank staff.






ANNEX 1 1
L E S O T H o
EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter Li        Disbursements           Disbursements             Balance
1                  0.03                    0.03                    3.97
2                  0.03                    0.06                    3.94
3                  0.06                    0.12                    3.88
4                  o.o6                    0.18                    3.82
5                  0.08                    0.26                    3.74
6                  0.08                    0.34                    3.66
7                  0.08                    0.42                    3.58
8                  0.30                    0.72                    3.28
9                  0.34                    1.06                    2.94
10                  0.44                    1.50                    2.50
1.                  0.48                    1.98                    2.02
12                  0.45                    2.43                    1.57
13                  0.40                    2.83                    1.17
14                  0.38                    3.21                    0.79
15                  0.30                    3.51                    0.49
16                  0.25                    3.76                    0.24
17                  0.15                    3.91                    0.09
18                  0.09                    4.00                     -
Li From credit effective date.
Source: World Bank staff.






ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2 pages
L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:              A credit of US$4.o million equivalent.  The proposed
credit would finance 49% of the total cost of the
education project.
Terms and            The credit would be for 50 years including a ten-year
Conditions:          grace period on standard terms.
Project             (a)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)    the improvement and expansion of the
existing technical institute;
(ii)   the establishment of the Lesotho
Institute for Business and Admini-
stration;
(iii) the headquarters of the Lesotho
National Extension College;
(iv)   facilities for a practical studies
program in six secondary schools.
(b) Technical assistance and fellowships for staff
development.
(c) Professional services and operational support
for the Project Unit.
Estimated Project                                                US$ millions
Costs:
1.  Practical studies programs in
six secondary schools                     1.50
2.  Lerotholi Technical Institute               1.58
3. Lesotho Institute of Business and
Administration                            0.43
4. Lesotho National Extension College           0.15
5. Technical assistance                         2.00
6.  Architectual and Engineering fees           0.22
7.  Project Administration                      0.35
8.  Contingencies                               1.91
Total Project Cost                     8.14



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
Categories of Expenditure:
US$ millions
1.  Civil works                            2.47
20  Furniture                              0.20
3.  Equipment                               0.99
4. Professional services                   0.22
5. Technical assistance                     2.35
6. Contingencies                           1.91
Total Project Cost       8.1-4
Financing:
IDA                                        4.00
Government                                 1.03
Other bilateral donor agencies             3.11
Total                    8.14
Procurement Arrangements:
Civil works, furniture and equipment would be procured
in accordance with IDA guidelines.
International competitive bidding by pre-qualified
contractors for construction contracts; domestic civil
works contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7-1/2%.
The Borrower's standard procurement procedures will be
used for contracts costing less than US$20,000, up to an
aggregate of US$100,000, for equipment and furniture
In the case of other contracts for equipment and
furniture,procurement will be international competitive
bidding. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% or the existing rates of
import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing imports.



LESOTHO
EDUCATION   PYRAMID
1972
61   22
UNIVERSITY                                                                        47   3
YEARS             2                                                               83   43
1                                                               38   28
5                                                             250    209
4               ~               BOYS                          323    307                                  GIRLS
SECONDARY         3                                                            837        878
FORMS              __
2                                                      2,078                2,432
1_                                                     2,063   =2,391
VI]I,                                                                                          ,0
VI                                            5,581
PRIMARY
GRADESIV853130
III                      11,954                                                           17,            480
I1 -18,883r                                                                                                                                23,65846
20,000         15,000         10,000          5,000            0            5,000          10,000         15,000          20,000          25,000
World Bank-8190






LESOTHO
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION- 1973
Age       6          7          8           9         10         11         12          13         14         15          16          17         18         19          20         21
Grade    1           2          3           4          5          6          7           8          9          10         11          12         13         14          15         16
Nursing
Teac1er Oraining
HX )~~~~~~~~~~~2
Primary  School                                                               Junior High School                Senior High School     University
Agriculture
{@                                         >~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Vocational-Technical    Technician
0 Selection Poi'nt {> 
1 Option for Public Health Nurse Training                                                                                                                         -       l
2 Option for University Degree in Education
3 Option for Agriculture Certificate
4 Option for Agriculture Diploma or Degree
5 Option for Technician Training                                                                                       Commercia
g Phasing Out - 1973-75
World Bank 8189






LESOTHO
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION - 1973
Minister
Permanent
Secretary
Technical and                                      University
Specialized                                        (UBLS)
Education
Principal
Education
Officer
Tranin                                             Education 
|Research and                    Administrative |nsectrat                                             Planning   |                  Unesco Affairs|
Development                        Division                         Division                         Division                          Division
_  Curriculum                _  Budgets, Revenue                 All School                       Long Range                        Unesco National
Development                     Expense                          Inspectors                       Planning                          Commission
Secondary                       Teacher                                                            Statistics
Education                       Service                                                           Analysis
Practical                       Personnel                                                         Donor
Subjects                        Functions                                                         Relations
World Bank 8188
0






L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation  Schedule-
Year                   First           Second             Third           Fourth             Fifth
Quarter            1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Civil Works
1.  Secondary Schools (Phase I)                              ... ... _..rT. :    +++  ++
2.  L.T.I./LIBA-II/LNEC                    ... ,.  T TT               :.      : ::: +++ +++
3.  Secondary Schools (Phase II)                          .. ...    -      T--   TTT.T::::::::: ::::+++4+++d
Furniture
1.  Secondary Schools (Phase I)                                                                           x
2.  L.T.I./LIBA-II/LNEC                                .,* X:7=KXXXXXXX
3.  Secondary Schools (Phase II)                                              .- XXXX  XR
4-p
Equipment
1.  Secondary Schools (Phase I)                .
2.  L.T.I./LIBA-II/LNEC                    _  .. .. .._XX(Di2D(                                                   8
3.  Secondary Schools (Phase II)                                .-.-Hxxxxxx m
4,3
Technical Assistance                                                                                      )       r
0
1. Specialists                            ==3
2. Fellowships (foreign)                                             =
3. Fellowships (local)
Project Unit                        =  _  5=       =5===   C==    == ==
Legend: .Sketch plans and approval                      ---- Working drawings                 TTTT  Tender and award
:::   Construction                        +..+   Guarantee                        .-.-  Preparation and award
x=xx   Delivery                                      Implementation period
L From Credit Effective Date






Ai  i
0   0~~~~; 
Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
z                                                                         Oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
LA
uve~~~~~~~ot
-n   0~~~~
0n                                       i
m    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m7
~~~~~~~~~~                                                              0   01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






L E S O T H O
EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY TO MAP
(Types of Institutions)
SYmbol & No.                    Project Item                          Location
A. Technical/Vocational Education
1      Lerotholi Technical Institute - Craft
Training Section                                   Maseru
2      Lerotholi Technical Institute - Technician
and Technical Teacher Training Section             Maseru
B.  Business/Commercial Education
3      Lesotho Institute of Business Administration I
*                           (LIRA I) (Civil Service Training)                  Maseru
Lesotho Institute of Business Administration II
(LIBA II) (Private Sector Training)                Maseru
C. Extension Education
*  5   Lesotho National Extension College (LNEC)            Maseru
D. Diversified Secondary Schools
6      Buthabuthe High School                               Buthabuthe
7      Holy Names High School                               St. Monica
A                 8      Eagles Peak High School                               Qachas Nek
9      St. Stephens High School                             Mohales Hoek
10      Sacred Heart High School                             Leribe
11      Lesotho High School                                  Maseru



