CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 497 LSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 25, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 497 LSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 25, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1974, between the KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.01(a)
of this Agreement;
(b)   "UBLS" means the University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland
or any successor thereto;
(c)   "LTI " means the Lerotholi Technical Institute of the Borrower or any
successor thereto; and
(d)   " LIBA" means the Lesotho Institute of Business and Administration
that is to be established by the Borrower or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, oil the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1979, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1984, and ending May 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Project Director of the Project Unit is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or


﻿5
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall promptly establish the Project Unit
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and appoint a Project Director, a Project
Accountant and a Procurement Officer whose qualifications and experience shall
be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and thereafter, during
the execution of the Project, maintain and operate such Project Unit with the
responsibilities, powers and staff, set forth in the said Schedule which shall not
be amended or terminated without the prior consent of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Project Unit with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and educational practices; shai provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this purpose; and
in particular shall cause its Ministry of Works promptly to assist the Project Unit
in the coordination of and liaison with the architectural and engineering consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, whenever such assistance is requested
by the Project Unit.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Project Unit in the design and the
supervision of the construction of the civil works included in the Project, the Project
Unit shall employ architectural and engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil works included in the Project, the
Project Unit shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make, or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to furnish to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Project Unit to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish, within twelve months of the date
of this Agreement and thereafter maintain in existence, an Education Evaluation
Committee which will include staff from its Ministry of Education, its Central
Planning and Development Office and other relevant agencies, to evaluate the
progress and effectiveness of the Borrowers' program of educational reforms on
a continuing basis and to recommend changes or improvements in such programs
and the Borrower will cause the said Education Evaluation Committee to furnish
its draft operational procedures to the Association for its comments, within eighteen
months of the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish, within twelve months of the date
of this Agreement and thereafter maintain in existence, a Consultative Committee
for the LTI, under the chairmanship of the Director of the LTI, that is responsible
for making recommendations on the courses to be given by the LTI, to ensure
that they are related to employer's needs and will consult the Association regarding
(i) the qualifications, experience and selection of any future candidate for the
position of Director of the LTI; and (ii) the qualifications, experience and selection
of the other members of the said Consultative Committee.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Project Unit.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Project Unit
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as is necessary to ensure
that the public service training center and the business and commercial training
center of the LIBA are each responsible to the principal officer of the LIBA.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes (i) to furnish to the Association,
by June 30, 1977, or such other date as may be agreed with the Association,
a draft program for rural education and to take into account the Association's
comments on such draft program before it is made final; and (ii) to establish,
within six months of the date of this Agreement, an Interministerial Rural
Development Council and notify the Association of its membership, powers and
responsibilities.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes that within twelve months of the
date of this Agreement, or such other date as the Association may agree (i) it
will furnish to the Association draft curricula for its proposed secondary school
practical studies program and will take into account the Associations' comments
on such draft curricula before they are made final; and (ii) that it will have recruited
the teachers required to carry out the said program of secondary school practical
studies and will be training them for this purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the


﻿8
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Project Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Bdrrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the Project
Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE ViII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Project Unit shall have been       established  and  the initial
appointments to fill the positions of Project Director and Project Accountant
specified in Sub-section 3.01(a) of this Agreement shall have been made; and


﻿10
(b)  The architectural consultants specified in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement shall have been appointed.
Section 8.02. The date October 24, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01, 3.07
and 3.08 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru
Lesotho
Cable address:
FINMIN
MASERU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ E. T. Manare
Authorized Reprfsen tatile
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categolies of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Civil Works                   1,670,000           80% of total
expenditures
2.   Furniture                       140,000
(a)   Directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)   Locally manu-                               100% of local
factured (ex-                               expenditures
factory cost)
3.   Equipment                       450,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
4.   Consultants                     170,000           80% of total
Services                                          expenditures
5.   Project Operation,              310,000           80% of total
Maintenance and                                   expenditures
Local Transporta-
tion
6.   Contingencies                  1,260,000
TOTAL        4,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such cucrency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to   the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories 1, 4 and 5 on account of
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1974 in amounts not exceeding the equivalent
of $17,600, $114,400 and $88,000 respectively; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿14
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories 1,
4 and 5 shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project includes (A) the design, construction, extension, furnishing and
equipping of educational and training institutions in the Kingdom of Lesotho and
(B) the provision of technical assistance and consultants services. The purposes
of the Project are to assist the Borrower's plans to expand and improve vocational,
technical and commercial education; to establish an extension college for the
continuing education of youths and adults; to introduce practical subjects and
non-formal educational programs for youths and adults in secondary schools; staff
development and program planning within the Borrower's Ministry of Education,
and, to provide technical assistance required for the implementation of the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Educational and Training Facilities, Furniture and Equipment
Construction of new facilities for, extensions to, and/or provision of
equipment for, training institutions, and the carrying out of education and
training programs, as follows:
(1)   Vocational and Technical Education
The expansion and improvement of the Lerotholi Technical
Institute to provide equipment, furniture and facilities required to
educate and train students at the craft and technician levels in various
specialities, these facilities to include student hostels, staff housing and
the required communal services.
(2)   Commercial Education and Training
Construction of, and equipment and furniture for, an institute
of business and administrative training including provision for staff
housing and communal facilities.
(3)   Continuing Education
Construction of, and equipment, furniture and staff housing for
the establishment of the National Extension College administration and
service facilities, which will become the headquarters for the Lesotho
national adult education program.


﻿16
(4)   Secondary Schools
Additional buildings, furniture and equipment for the provision
of pre-vocational, agricultural, handicrafts and domestic science training
in six selected secondary schools (Butha Buthe, Holy Names, Eagles
Peak, St. Stephens, Sacred Heart and Lesotho High School). One staff
house will be provided for each of these secondary schools.
The planned capabilities and the approximate areas of the
physical facilities listed above shall be as set forth in Annex A to
this Schedule, subject to modification by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part B.     Technical Assistance and Consultants Services
The provision of seven man-years of technical assistance for the Project
Unit together with a contribution towards its operational expenses and
consultants services.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 1, 1978.


﻿17
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Educational Institutions
Estimated  Estimated    Additional      Approximate Area of
Additional   Total    Boarding   Staff  New Construction (m2)
Institutions          Places     Places    Places   Houses Renovate   New      Total
Vocational/Technical
Education
Lerotholi Technical
Institute                 240        360       176      19    1,756     4,432    6,188
Commercial Education
Lesotho Institute
of Business and
Administration            130        200        80       6       0      1,250    1,250
Continuing Education
Lesotho National
Extension College       4,000       4,000        0       6       0        840      840
Six Secondary Schools
1.  Butha Buthe             169        468         0       1      60      1,307    1,367
2.  Holy Names              190        468         0       1       0      1,214    1,214
3. Eagles Peak              178        468         0       1     435        784    1,219
4.  St. Stephens            201        432         0       1      150     1,080     1,230
5. Sacred Heart             195        468         0       1     220        660      880
6. Lesotho High School      147        468         0       1     175      1,050     1,225
Total m2 Secondary Schools                7,135
Total n2 provided                       15,403


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Preferences for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, the Project
Unit may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors, as determined
by the Project Unit, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Director of the Project
Unit shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. Applicants applying for preference shall
be asked to provide such information, including details of ownership, as the Project
Unit shall require to determine whether according to the Borrower's established
classification a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference.
A list of prequalified bidders identifying those eligible for preference, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification or eligibility for preference, shall be furnished by
the Project Unit to the Association for its comments and the Project Unit shall
make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request before the applicants are invited to bid.
(b)   Before bids are invited the Project Unit shall furnish to the Association
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. The bidding
documents shall, inter alia, specify that a bidder may submit bids in respect of
individual educational institutions included in the invitation to bid or a group of
them, together with related facilities or any combination thereof, the bids therefor
to be opened simultaneously and the Project Unit to have the option of awarding
one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or separate contracts
in respect of several such institutions and facilities. The bidding documents shall
also clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Project Unit,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:


﻿19
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been evaluated, the Project Unit shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and the Project Unit and state the reasons for such
determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
B.    Contracts for Furniture and Equipment
1.    With respect to any contract for furniture and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $20,000 or more.
(a)   Before inviting bids, the Director of the Project Unit shall send to
the Association for its approval, the lists of all items of furniture and equipment
required for the Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total
price. Items shall be indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the
respective educational institution and the spaces for which they are required. Insofar
as practicable, contracts for such items shall be for not less than the equivalent
of $75,000. Amendments to such lists which may be made from time to time
shall also be submitted to the Association for approval.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Project Unit shall furnish      to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such


﻿20
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   Procurement shall be limited to those items of furniture and equipment
which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph B(a) above
and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same indexes, codes
and numbers as in such lists.
(d)   The Project Unit shall send to the Association, after bids have been
evaluated, a summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Association's approval
before awarding a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than
the lowest bidder, the Project Unit shall send to the Association a brief justification
of the proposed award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and the Project Unit and
state the reasons for such determination.
2.    With respect to any contract for furniture or equipment estinmted to cost
less than the equivalent of $20,000, the Project Unit may procure such goods
under such contracts on a competitive basis in accordance with the normal
procurement procedures of the Borrower, provided that the aggregate cost of the
goods to be procured in accordance with this procedure shall not exceed the
equivalent of $100,000.
3.    Contracts for books shall be procured at the publishers price plus a handling
commission which would be established by obtaining quotations from suitable
suppliers.
C.    Procurement of   Goods; Supplemental Rules on      Bid E&aluation    and
Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Maseru) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar
taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Project Unit of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Kingdom of Lesotho may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿0                                  21
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(I) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Lesotho if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Project Unit and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the Kingdom of
Lesotho equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Kingdom of Lesotho.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and othfer import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes oil goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all1 group C bids shall be furtier compared witll tile
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, all aIlount equal to (i) the amounit of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or, if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of the c.i.f. price of such goods (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award: if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall
be selected.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project
and shall have, inter alia, the following functions, powers and responsibilities:
(a)   the coordination of the work of the various Ministries of the Borrower
and the other agencies concerned with the development of the
institutions included in the Project;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the consultants
and contractors referred to in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of this
Agreement;
(c)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture, equipment and books
required for the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment and books
including the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids
and consulting with the Association regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work and acceptance of the
consultants' certification of completion work;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation      of regular reports to the
Association; and
(h)   the coordination of arrangements for the technical assistance provided
for in Part B of the Project.
2.    The Project Unit shall consist of:
(a)   a full-time Project Director, who is to be the Unit's legal representative
and have overall responsibility for the direction and coordination of
its work;
(b)   a full-time Project Accountant;


﻿*                                                   23
(c)   a full-time Procurement Officer; and
(d)   Such administrative, secretarial and other staff as may be required for
the carrying out of Project Unit's responsibilities.


