Document of
The World Batik
FOR OFFICIAL USE JNLY
Report No. 7153
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES: SECOND MANILA WAV¶ER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1615-PH)
March 4, 1988
Infrastructure Division
Country Department 2
Asia Region
This document has a restictel dilbuto  and may be used by is  only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(See Country Exchange Rates, Basic Data Sheet)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 liter (1)                   =  0.26 gallons
1 liter per capita
per day (lcd)               =  0.26 US gallons
per capita per day
1 megaliter per day (Mld)    n  0.26 million US gallons per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONs AND ACRONYMS
ADB        =  Asian Development Bank
RR         =  Rate of Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets
GOP        s Republic of the Philippines
HRDO       =  Hmlan Resources Development Office
IPRI       3  Integrated Program for Revenue Improvement
IRn           Internal Rate of Return
LWUA       = Local Water Utilities Administration
MKA        =  Metropolitan Manila Area
MWSS       3  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NRW        -  Non Revenue Water



FOR OMCMIL Use ONLY
TIE WORLD SANK
Washngton. DC 2043
USA
Ofe fc  Omtectnituwai
Mtarchi 4, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines - Second
Manila Water Supply Project (Loan 1615-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Philippines - Second Manila Water Supply Project
(Loan 1615-PH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricial duties. Is contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



FO OWFICUL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJBCT (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLERTIO REPOBT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ................................. 
BASIC DATA SHEET          ...............    ii
HICNLIGHTS ......... ... *00000 ................. @0.00................  *    iv
Io  INTRODUCTION. *.....***.**..*.**.*.*.........**O**e.*e.0**       1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATIOU...................        2
-III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS.........................        5
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPENT ................       10
V.  OPERATINC PERFORMANCEt..........................*.........    12
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECr ........................................       17
VII.  BANK ROLE9...... .......                                   *    19
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION....* ...........................           20
IX.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSON$ EEARNED ..........................      21
ANNEXES
1.   Project Description ...**          ...........................    24
2.   Comparison Between Estimate (of Appraisal) Actual (for
currently estimated) Construction Periods        .............    26
3.   Project Costs - Appraisal Estimate Versus Actual ........    28
4.   Compliance with Loan Covenants          ..........................    29
5.   Organization Chart (Effective September 1985) ............    30
6.   Schedule of Water Rates by Service Type (Peso)        ..........   31
7.   Summary of Unpaid Accounts by User Category (as of June
30, 1986 ..........................................    32
8a.  Income Statement (P million)          ............................    33
8b.  Balance Sheet (P million) *...........................    34
9.   Internal Rate of Return *................................    35
10.  MWSS Comments on PCR ..................................    36
11.  NEDA's Comments on PCR           ...........................*    44
This document has a restrieted distributin and ay be ued by rciomnts onb in the performance
of their official dutius. Its contents may not othrwise be diacd wout wld WaBonk authoration.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND KANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This project completion report (PCR) presents the results of a
review of the Second Manila Water Supply Project for which Loan 1615-PH of
US$88.0 million was made in July 1978 to the Republic of the Philippines
(GOP). US$85.0 million and US$2.5 million of the loan proceeds were to be on-
lent to the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Services (MWSS) and Local
Water Utilities Administration, respectively. The balance of US$0.5 million
was to be used by GOP to prepare a rural water supply project. The loan was
fully disbursed by August 1986, about two and half years later than originally
scheduled.
The report was prepared by the Urban and Water Supply Division of
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. It is based on: (a) a review of
loan and project documents in Bank files, and a report prepared by MWSS on
completion of the project; and (b) discussions with relevant Bank staff and,
.in the field, with GOP and MWSS officials. The valuable assistance pr'vided
by COP and MWSS in preparing this report is gratefully acknowledged.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following normal procedures, OED ser.t copies of the draft report
to the Government, Executing Agency and the Co-financier for commeits.
Comments received fromq MWISS and NEDA have been reproduced as Annexes 10
and 11 to the report.



- ii -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1615-PH)
.PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Appraisal          Actual or
Estimated         Current Est.
Total Project Cost (Peso million)               2,938.7            4,588.67
Overrun Z                                           -                  56
Loan (USs million)                                   88               88.00
Disbursed                                           -                88.0
Date of Physical Completion                    6/83 /a                12/86
Time Overrun 9%)                                                       60
Internal Rate of Return                             12%         Not applicable /a
Financial Performance                                           Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                                       Satisfactory
Cumulative Disbursement (MS$ million)
Dec. 31    1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
(a)  Estimated                  7.1  31.9  67.4  82.1  86.8  88.0  88.0  88.   88.0
(b)  Actual                      -      -    2.7   4.4  14.6  41.1  58.3  76.1  88.0
(c)  B/A (X)                     0      0     4      5    17    56    66    86    100
/a  IRR for the entire investment program is 6Z (see para. 8.5).
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Estimated             Actual
First Mention in Files                                               77
Negotiations                                                         May 1978
Board Approval                                                       July 25, 1978
Loan Agreement                                                       July 26, 1978
Effectiveness                                 Oct. 24, 1978          Dec. 21, 1985
Closing                                       Dec. 31, 1983          Dec. 31, 1978
Borrower                    Government of the Philippines
Executing Agencies          Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage
System
Local Water Utilities Association
Follow-on Project           Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month/    No. of    Man        Date of
Year      Persons   Days       Report
Preparation/Preappraisal             9/77         3       15        8/77
Appraisal                           11/77         3       16        7/78
Post-Appraisal                       5/78         3       10        6/78
Sub-total                                              41
Supervision I                       10/78         2       12       12/78
Supervision 11                       7/79         2       12        9/70
Supervision III                     6/80          2       12        7/80
Supervision IV                       2/81         2       14        4/81
Supervision V                        7/81         2       10        9/81
Supervision VI                       6/82         1        7        9/82
Supervision VII                      9/83         2       12       10/83
Supervision VIII                     9/84         2       14       11/84
Sub-total /a                                           93 /b
EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal (1977)   -                US$1 = P 7.4
Intervening years 1978-1986        US$1 = P 18 (est.)
Completion (1986)                  US$1 = 20
/a Appraisal mission for Loan 2676-PH.(April 1985)
also reviewed for the project under Loan 1615-PH.
/b Includes supervision of other projects in the sector.



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
i.        The project was cofinanced by ADB.  Its main components were source
development works (financed by ADB) and extension of the distribution system
(financed by the Bank). The objectives were to improve access to safe water
supplies for the population of Metropolitan Manila Arca (MMA), with particular
emphasis on providing this basic need to lower income groups, and to assist
the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Services (MWSS) into becoming an
efficient and financially viable public utility.
ii.       Implementation of the project took some four years longer than the
original schedule. The ADB component was delayed by over two years. Because
of this delay and also because MWSS and its consultants underestimated the
complexities of implementation, the start-up of the distribution component was
delayed by about two years. The implementation was further delayed during the
period (1983-85) of severe economic/financial crisis in the country and the
unprecedented increase in costs of materials and labor. The implementing
agency had to take over many contracts from contractors who had financial
difficulties or even went bankrupt. These contracts were subsequently split
into smaller sizes and re-awarded. Several of the contracts were carried over
into a later project (Loan 2676-PH).
iii.      Water sales through 1986 have been substantially lower than those
projected largely due to delays in the implementation of the distribution
works, and to a large increase in the unaccounted-for-water (also referred to
as non-revenue-water (NRW)). This increased from 47% in 1978 to 65% in 1986,
in contrast to the appraisal expectation of a gradual decrease to 26% by
1986. The actual volume sold in 1986 was less than half of that projected at
appraisal (and only 23Z higher than that sold in 1978). Sales to, as well as
the number of, industrial customers in 1986 were lower than those in 1978, and
substantially lower than those projected, reflecting the economic recession in
1983-86, illegal consumption and high tariffs.
iv.       MWSS was reorganized in 1985.  Over the project period it has
developed into a competent entity, and this is reflected in the quality of its
operation and maintenance of major facilities, and in the preparation of
accounts. The agency, however, has not been so successful in the operation
and maintenance of its relatively old distribution system, and in controlling
the system particularly at the customer end. In recent years, there have been
several top management changes which have adversely affected staff morale,
particularly at the senior level. Overall, however, the agency is well
managed and has competent professional staff, and has made remarkable progress
with regard to training of techanical and lower level staff.



v.        The financial performance of MWSS was lower than the appraisal
expectations. However after taking into account the increase in the level of
NRW and the delays in project implementation, the performance was satisfac-
tory. This was due mainly to the increase in tariffs; the tariff in 1986
being about 1OOZ higher than the corresponding appraisal estimate. MWSS met
in 1985 and in 1986, the rate of return covenant which was revised under Loan
2676-PH.
vi.       The Bank responded to the country's economic/financial crises with a
Special Action Program (SAP); the disbursement percentage on civil works was
increased and a Special Account established in order to reduce further delays
to project implementation arising from shortage of counterpart funds. The
project achieved the objective of contributing towards improvements in health
and improving the piped water service to the population of MMA, though the
actual results were short of the targets. It contributed to the institutional
development of MWSS, and enhanced the concept, within the Government and the
MWSS, of the need for financial viability of the entity. Significant measures
including investment in rehabilitation of the distribution system and a
special program are presently under way to reduce the high level of NRW. The
appraisal internal rate of return (IRR) of 12% was, on hindsight,
unrealistic. The IRR for the entire investment program, based on somewhat
conservative assumptions, is now estimated at 6%.



PHILIPPTNES
SECOND MANILA WATER SU.PPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INIRODUCTION
1.1       The Philippines is well endowed with natural fresh water
resources. However, in the past, public investment in water supply and
sanitation was very low, with the result that infrastructure for water supply,
sewerage and drainage was inadequate throughout the country. Health
statistics showed that the incidence of diseases related to unsatisfactory
water quality and inadequate excreta disposal methods was high and prevalent
nationwide.
1.2       It was estimated that in 1977 only about 17 million (38X) of the
country's population of about 44 million were served by public water supply
systems. Of the number served, 3.2 million were in the Metropolitan Manila
Area (MMA) (53% of the population of 5.2 million), 3.7 million were in other
urban areas and 10.1 million were in rural areas. Miny systems were old, had
high leakage rates and operated only a few hours a day. Recognizing the above
problems and other shortcomings in the sector, the Government of the
Philippines (GOP) assigned high priority to the development of the water
sector in its Five-Year Development Plan for 1978-82.
1.3       Responsibility for water supply and sewerage in the MMA is vested
with the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MiSS), established in
1971. The Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), established in 1973,
is responsible to provide technical assistance and loans to locally-controlled
water districts (WDs) in the provincial cities. Rural waterworks and sanita-
tion are overseen by the Rural Waterworks Development Corporation.
1.4       The GOP has established financing and cost recovery policies in the
sector. Investments of the MKA and other cities and towns are financed
through foreign loans, GOP loans and equity contributions, and self-generated
funds. COP also provides the WDs with grants for system development. Regard-
ing cost recovery, tariffs in MMA are expected to provide a rate of return of
around 8% on the utility's revalued water assets in operation and a positive
rate of return on sewerage assets, while tariffs of WDs are expected to
generate adequate revenues to meet operation and maintenance costs and cover
debt service (or depreciation), whichever is greater.
1.5       Loan 1615-PH is the third of seven Bank operations in the sector.
The first was in 1964 with a loan of US$20.2 million for the Manila Water
Supply Project (Loan 386-PH) to expand and improve the water supply system
serving the MMA.  (It was envisaged as an interim operation which would lead
to a larger Bank involvement in source development and distribution system
expansion for the city). The project was completed after long delays, and key
loan covenants dealing with operational and financial performance were not
met. -The second operation was in 1977 with a loan of US$23 million for the
Provincial Cities Water Supply Project (Loan 1415-PH), which was completed
with some delays. According to the Project Performance Audit Report
(No.6422), the project's major-physical objectives were achieved, but expected
goals for institutional development and financial performance were
unrealistic.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
Origin
2.1       In 1974, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) provided MWSS with a loan
of US$51.3 million to finance the preparation and part of the foreign exchange
cost of a project for source development and construction of treatment and
distribution works. Development under the project was expected to result in
full utilization of the yield of Angat River resources. MWSS had undertaken
to obtain financing for the remaining foreign exchange cost of the project by
1976. During the detailed design phase of the project, it was concluded that
the volume of the supply sources and the cost of their development had been
underestimated, as had been the demand and the length of the pipelines to
distribute the available water. The project was therefore revised to fully
utilize the available yield.
2.2       MWSS accepted the revised project and in April 1977 Government
requested Bank participation and further assistance from ADB for the enlarged
water supply project which consisted of source development (i.e., headworks)
and transmission and distribution works. The project was prepared by MWSS
with the assistance of consultants financed under the ADB loan. The project
formed part of the water development program to improve the piped water
service within HMA.
Preparation and Appraisal
2.3       A Bank preparation/preappraisal mission visited Manila in July-
August 1977. The major findings of the mission were: (a) virtually no
investment in the MMA water supply system had been made during the last 10
years; (b) tariffs, which were last increased in May 1974, were totally
inadequate; (c) assets had been last revalued in 1971;'(d) limits imposed by
the MWSS charter regarding its authoriLzed capital and foreign borrowings were
inadequate, considering the magnitude of the proposed project; and (e) the
organization and management of MWSS needed strengthening.
2.4       During project appraisal in November 1977, it was realized that MWSS
was embarking on a major expansion program requiring unprecedented efforts to
reduce currently high levels of unaccounted-for water, and to provide new
water connecticns in order to fully utilize the large additional capacity
which would come on stream in 1982. It was concluded that MWSS would need to
hire consultants to provide :xpert advice and guidance.
2.5       Negotiations between the Borrower and the Bank took place during
May 1-5, 1978. During negotiations, it was decided to make implementation of
agreed tariff increases a condition of Board presentation of the loan. The
loan amount was increased by US$3 million (from US$85 million to US$88 mil-



-3-
lion) to assist MWSS in replacing leaking connections.!1 A Bank proposal to
create a new position of Deputy General Manager to strengthen MWSS management
was dropped, but a technical assistance package to strengthen MUSS institu-
tionally and enhance its implementation capability was included in the
project. Appropriate loan covenants aimed at ensuring institutional, finan-
cial and operational improvements and the successful implementation of the
project were agreed (para. 3.13). The execution of a loan agreement between
ADB and MWSS for US$49 million was a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Objectives and Description
2.6       The main objectives of the project were:  (a) to improve access to
safe water supplies to the population of MKA, with particular emphasis on
meeting the basic needs of the lower-income population; and (b) to assist MWSS
in becoming an efficient and financially viable public utility. The project
was expected to increase the number of persons served with piped water from
about 3 million in 1977 to about 7 million by 1986.
2.7       The project had three parts:
Part A:   Source development, including the construction of a dam,
aqueduct, treatment plant, reservoirs, pumping stations,
transmission lines and miscellaneous rehabilitation works; and
the provision of technical assistance for the institutional
development of MWSS and consultant services for project design
and implementation;
Part B:   Construction of distribution networks, deep wells, pumps,
storage reservoirs, a training school, and branch offices; the
acquisition and installation of meters; and the provision of
technical assistance for the establishment of 21 offices for
system operations and maintenance as well as a training program
for MWSS staff; and
Part C:   The provision of technical assistance for the preparation of
feasibility studies and detailed designs for water supply
projects in provincial cities, and the preparation of a rural
water supply project.
Part A of the project was to be financed by ADB (hereafter called the ADB
project), while Parts B and C were to be financed by the Bank (hereafter
called the Bank project). A detailed project description is given in Annex 1.
2.8       The entire project was estimated to cost about 1 2,940 million
(US$397 million equivalent). Construction and installation of all components
were expected to be completed by December 1981, except the installation of
1/   The US$3 million was subsequently included in the amount allocated for
acquisition of meters; MWSS was to carry out replacement of leaking
connections as part of its ongoing activities.



-4-
meters and service connections which was expected to continue through December
1983. The project was to be officialy completed by June 1983. The loan was
to be fully disbursed and closed by December 1983. The Office for Special
Projects (OSP) - a special unit of MWSS Construction Department - assisted by
consultants vas responsible for project implementation.



.5-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
Effectiveness
3.1       A Bank loan (1615-PH) for US$88 million to the Government of the
Philippines was approved by the Board on July 25, 1978. US$85 million of loan
proceeds were to be on-lent to MWSS on the same terms as those of the Bank
loan, with MWSS bearing the foreign exchange risk. The Loan and Project
Agreements were signed on July 26, 1978. The loan became effective on
December 21, 1978, about two months later than envisaged.
Physical Progress
3.2       The project was implemented generally as designed with somewhat
minor revisions (including changes in construction methods) and significant
rescheduling. Estimated and actual (or currently estimated) construction
schedules for the major project components are given in Annex 2.
3.3       Part A.  Start-up of construction of the ADB project components was
delayed by several months to over a year. The 4DB project was essentially
completed over two years later than scheduled." The primary cause of these
delays was Government's cumbersome procedures for the award of large con-
tracts. The treatment plant capacity was increased by some 1,500 Mld (to
about 2,850 Mld) by September 1982, and at about the same time, the total
supply of raw water (about 2,700 Mld) was available from the dam.,
3.4       Part B.  Start-up of Part B of the project i.e. preparation of
detailed design and tender documents was delayed by over two years.  MWSS was
reluctant to start work on Part B until some progress was made on construction
of Part A. Furthermore, MWSS and the consultants also underestimated the time
required to implement a complex and large distribution component in the
conditions prevailing in MMA. During implementation, all components suffered
additional delays due to the following:
(a) the Bank project was packaged in a large number of small contracts
to encourage participation of local contractors, and thereby promote
the development of the local contracting industry. Several of the
local contractors had difficulties with the contracts, some for
financial reasons (attributed to underbidding), others because of
their lack of technical capabilities (perhaps a reflection of
inadequate pre-assessment of their capabilities), and in the case
of one major contractor, overextension in his contracting
activities in the Middle East.
1/   Minor on-going works were expected to be completed by late 1986.
2/   This component was officially completed only in April 1984.



-6-
(b) a shortage of counterpart funds arose due to the country's seriously
deteriorating financial situation from 1983;
(c) the price escalation formula for contracts, which was determined by
Government, became inadequate following the sharp increases in
inflation and in the costs of labor and materials. As a result,
many contractors had to give up contracts, and in some cases went
bankrupt. (These contracts were subsequently split into yet smaller
sizes and re-awarded - see para. 3.6).
3.5       Other factors of relatively less significance which contributed to
delays were: (a) cumbersome bureaucratic requirements (sometimes politically
motivated) for obtaining permits to excavate roads; (b) tight money situation,
unprecedented level of inflation and devaluation of the peso; and (c) unsatis-
factory quality of materials and equipment produced by overextended local
manufacturers and suppliers, and mounting traffic problems which.were compoun-
ded by concurrent construction of other infrastructure projects.
Measures Taken
3.6       MWSS assisted contractors with financial difficulties by making
advance payments and supplying major materials such as pipes and valves. It
also assisted the contractors to obtain excavation permits. However, there
was also a lack of firmness on the part of MWSS in dealing with and resolving
problems in contract-execution and supervision.  Eventually, MWSS strengthened
its own supervision teams and took over or terminated many contracts. The
latter contracts were subsequently subdivided into smaller packages and re-
awarded to qualified contractors under simplified bidding procedures agreed
with the Bank (para.3.7)
3.7       Faced with a severe economic/financial crisis affecting the entire
country, the Bank proposed in 1983 a Special Action Program (SAP) in order to
avoid further delays to projects under implementation arising from the
shortage of local funds, which in turn would have increased project costs and
delayed expected benefits. Under SAP for this project, the loan disbursements
for civil works were increased from the original 40% to 65%, a Special Account
was opened with an advance of US$8 million and abbreviated bidding procedures
were approved for contracts which were taken over by MWSS and re-awarded.
3.8       Mainly because of shortage of funds and partly because of delays in
their implementation, uncomoleted portions of Part B components were carried
over in a follow-up project (Loan 2676-PH). A few components are still under
implementation, while in the case of others, the retention money would be
financed under Ln. 2676-PH. According to the most recent estimate, about 94%
of the Bank project had been completed by June 1986 (see Annex 2).
3.9       Part C of the project, technical assistance financed by the Bank,
provided the services of consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of
feasibility studies and detailed designs for 28 WDs, and to assist the
Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (MPWTC) in the
preparation of a rural water supply project. All studies were completed
satisfactorily and led to the Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project



-7-
(Ln. 1710/Cr. 920-PH, approved in May 1979) and the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (Ln. 2206-PH, approved in October 1982).
Costs and Financing
3.10      The total project cost (including the actual or currently estimated
cost of those components being carried out under Loan 2676-PH) is P 4,588
million which is 57% higher than the appraisal estimate of P 2,938.7 mil-
lion. The total cost of Parts A and B of the project is estimated at over
P 4,570 million, an increase of nearly 60% over the appraisal estimate of
about P 2,916 million.
3.11      The cost of the ADB project in peso increased by about 25 X over the
appraisal estimate, mainly due to delays in its implementation. The cost of
Part B of the project is currently estimated at P 2,798 million, an increase
of nearly 90% over the appraisal estimate. The large cost increase was mainly
due to the delayed start-up of implementation which carried the project into a
period of unprecedented inflation which resulted in steep increases in the
cost of labor and materials, and as a result in some contract failures. The
project cost in US dollars was not significantly higher than the appraisal
estimates because of several devaluations of the peso, from US$1 = P 7.4 in
1978 to around US$1 = P 20 in 1986.  Changes to the construction methods and
higher than expected costs of obtaining right-of-way and of restoring roads
also contributed to the increase in project costs. A comparison of the esti-
mated and actual (or currently estimated) project costs is given in Annex 3.
3.12      The ADB loan was expected to be fully disbursed by December 1986.
By increasing the disbursement percentage on civil works from 40X to 65%
(para. 3.7) the proceeds from the. Bank loan have been fully utilized. The
unfinished works from the project valued at about US$ 30 million were carried
over into the follow-up project (Ln. 2676-PH).
Compliance with Covenants
3.13      Annex 4 summarizes compliance with the major Loan Agreement
covenants. Compliance was generally satisfactory, although somewhat later
than stipulated and, in a few cases, not completely as specified. The
financial covenant requiring an 8% rate of return by 1982 was modified under
Ln. 1814-PH and again under Ln. 2676-PH (8% to be achieved by 1988). A large
portion of uncollectible accounts is still in the process of being written
off.
Loan Disbursement
3.14      Because of project implementation delays, actual disbursements
lagged far behind appraisal estimates (details in Basic Data Sheet).
Reflecting the lack of physical progress on the Bank project, no disbursement
took place through 1979, although nearly 40% of the loan was expected to be
disbursed by that time.  Only 47% of the loan was disbursed by December 1983,
the original closing date. The loan was fully disbursed by August 1986.



-8-
Procurement
3.15      All contracts for equipment supply and for construction were open to
ICB. The equipment suppliers were mainly from overseas. The two distribution
mains civil works contracts were won by a joint venture of a foreign and a
major domestic contractor. Overseas contractors showed little interest in the
rest of the construction contracts, which were of relatively small value. For
contracts taken over by MWSS due to contractor failures (paras. 3.4 - 3.6),
the Bank approved simplified re-bidding and re-award procedures (permissible
under Presidential Decree 1594, governing procurement in the Philippines).
Only one award was disapproved by the Bank under the simplified procedures;
MWSS made an award to a cont-actor who was not one of the bidders and in fact
had been the original contractor from whom MIWSS had taken over the original
larger contract.
Reporting
3.16      MWSS regularly provided reports on the progress of the project, and
on annual accounts. The reports were of good quality, were provided on time,
and allowed close monitoring of project implementation.
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.17      The engineering consultants, a consortium of two foreign and one
local firms, were employed to carry out detailed desi g7 and construction
supervision of the project through December 31, 1982.'  Thereafter, their
contract was renewed/extended but their role was progressively reduced from
direct supervision to advisory responsibilities (except for supervision of Ipo
Dam construction).  While .d and MWSS were generally satisfied with the
consultants' performance,  the latter were partly responsible for delays to
the Bank component by underestimating the complexities associated with its
implementation; this led to delays in the preparation of the detailed design
and tender documents for the component (para. 3.4). Furthermore, the
consultants appeared reluctant to make firm recommendations, and generally
adopted routine rather than innovative techniques and approaches.
3.18      The management consultants (a joint venture of foreign and local
firms), hired under ADB project, provided expert advice on MWSS operations
between July 1980 and August 1982. MWSS accepted almost all of their
recommendations, e.g., for preventive maintenance, an assessment of equipment,
an improved organizational structure, and programs for metering and for
2/   The consultants were paid out of ADB loan amount to carry out detailed
design for the entire project. For construction supervision the
consultants were paid out of ADB and Bank loan amounts for the respective
parts of the project.
3/   MWSS has some reservations on the consultants performance regarding
detailed design of the distribution component.



-9-
reducing unaccounted-for water. The consultants did not, however, fully
address the principal thrust of their terms of reference, i.e., a review of
MWSS staffing in relation to its work load and functions. In addition, some
of the recommendations on reorganization were made without accompanying
justification. After a further review, MWSS introduced a reorganization in
1985, mainly based on the above recommendations.
3.19      All but two civil works contracts in the Bank project were awarded
to local contractors (those two were awarded to a joint venture of a local and
a foreign contractor). The performance of several local contractors was
disappointing, mainly due to: (a) financial and technical shortcomings; (b) an
inadequate price escalation formula imposed by Government and thus beyond
their control; and (c) for one major contractor, overextended manpower and
financial resources, due to contractual activities in the Middle East.
3.20      Procurement from foreign suppliers became very difficult during
1983-85 when the peso was devalued substantially and Covernment imposed severe
restrictions on the opening of letters of credit. The performance of local
manufacturers and suppliers, who were overextended, was on occasions less than
satisfactory both in terms of quality and timeliness.



- 10 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
MUSS
4.1       On the recommendation of consultants engaged under the project, and
a Bank review of the recommendations, the organization structure of MWSS was
modified in September 1985. The new organizational structure (Annex 5)
appears reasonable for a large public utility. The main features of the
reorganization were: (a) creation of the position of Senior Deputy
Administrator; (b) an increase in the number of Deputy Administrators from
four to six; (c) creation of six Sectoral (area) Offices which were provided
with the capability to install service connections, repair leaks and provide
other customer services; and (d) separation of construction and engineering
activities.
4.2       Over the years MWSS has developed into a competent entity.  This is
reflected in the quality of its operation and maintenance of major facilities
for the production and treatment of water and in the preparation of accounts.
MUSS has not been so successful, however, in operating and maintaining the
relatively old distribution system during a period of rapid system expansion,
and in controlling the system particularly at the customer end.  MWSS staff,
especially at professional and senior/middle-management levels are qualified
and competent, although their performance is to some extent diminished by
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures endemic in the country.
4.3       During the project period, MWSS developed and institutionalized
capacities for (a) development planning and implementation through project
offices; (b) investment planning and programming through the computerized
CORPLAN model; (c) management information systems; and (d) staff training. In
recent years, however, there have been several changes in the administration
and in the style of management, including three changes in the six months
following the change in Government in February 1986.  These changes have
resulted in an apparent lack of trust between the administration and some of
the professional staff, and created an aura of uncertainty and indecisiveness
in the direction of MUSS. Such factors have-adversely affected staff morale,
particularly at the senior level, thereby diminishing the efficiency and
esprit de corps within the organization.
4.4       While there are obviously areas within the institution requiring
improvement in efficiency and effectiveness, MWSS management has correctly
given top priority to reducing unaccounted-for water and thus maximizing
benefits and improving reveues (see paras. 5.3-5.8).
4.5       Although MWSS is a competent utility compared to many such utilities
in developing countries, it is relatively overstaffed. In 1986 it had a
permanent staff of around 7,100 which corresponds to about 14.5 employees per
1,000 connections. [A realistic comparison between the numbers of staff in
1978 and 1986 cannot be made because in 1978 MWSS had a large number of casual
labor who were subsequently absorbed into the entityl. Improvements in
productivity are expected, however, as a result of a recently initiated
program to expand the number of new connections and through retraining and
redeployment of staff.



- 11 -
Training
4.6       Prior to the project, MWSS had not developed a systematic capability
for providing in-house training nor for determining staff training-needs.
Nevertheless, the senior management was fully cognizant of the benefits of and
were keen to establish and institutionalize training facilities and
programs. A major aim of the project was therefore to establish and
institutionalize training facilities and programs. The project provided
assistance to (a) create a separate training division by June 1979 with its
head reporting directly to KWSS's Chief Executive; (b) construct and equip a
training school; and (c) develop training programs which would include
classroom and on-the-job training, as well as overseas training for the
trainers.
4.7       MWSS has made remarkable progress in training technical and other
non-managerial staff since 1979. It has established a Human Resources
Development Office (HRDO) - the equivalent of a training division - and has
built an excellent training facility with accommodations for 60 trainees.
HRDO has progressively improved and now provides excellent training programs
which are based, among other things, on identification of training needs by
consultative panels representing major functional areas. It currently has 22
full-time trainers, and in 1984, 1985 and 1986 it conducted 96, 71, and 108
courses attended by 1,699, 1,199 and 1,564 participants, respectively, the
average duration of each course being around 40 hours. According to a report
of the Bank's Training Division, HRDO probably provides the miost comprehensive
training service of any Bank-assisted metropolitan water authority in any
region. For its senior level staff, MWSS has provided overseas training on an
ad hoc basis.



- 12 -
V. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
System Operation
5.1       As mentioned above (para. 4.2), MWSS's major facilities, e.g.,
source works, treatment plants and pumping stations, are well maintained and
competently operated. However, its operation and maintenance of distribution
facilities has been neglected and needs serious attention, partly because the
system in some areas of the city is old and needs repair and partly because
the system developed in an uncontrolled fashion. In addition, there is a lack
of accurate records on the location, size and other details of pipes and
valves. The system has suffered from inadequate maintenance, and some
elements have even fallen into disuse. Since the reorganization in 1985,
MWSS's Sectoral Offices have been engaged in preparing detailed records of the
tertiary systems and house connections within their areas, which would assist
in systematic maintenance. The Operations Department should now be able to
concentrate on operation and maintenance of the primary and secondary systems.
A Distribution Network Computer Model for system design and operation has been
prepared but is not yet fully operational.
Customer Services
5.2       As part of its reorganization (para.4.1), MWSS established six
Sectoral Offices and some 20 Branch Offices. 't is now in the process of
decentralizing most customer services, including billing, collection, leak
repair, etc. This would improve collections, and the efficiency and
effectiveness of MWSS at the customer level.
Unaccounted-for Water or Non Revenue Water (NRW)
5.3       In a fully metered system unaccounted-for or non-revenue water (NRW)
represents the difference between the water produced and the amount of water
billed for during a specified period, and is presented as a percentage of
water produced. This difference reflects leaks in the system, illegal con-
sumption, legal but unbilled consumption (e.g., to extinguish fires or water
gardens), under-reading of production and consumer meters, and meter-reading
and billing errors.
5.4       MWSS has a history of high NRW. In the late 1970s, however, NRW had
reduced from around 552 in the early 1970s to around 47% in 1978. The project
appraisal report projected a progressive improvement of NRW to 28% by 1985.
This expectation was not unrealistic, because the project provided for the
replacement of consumer meters and, more importantly, for the large expansion
of the distribution system. (By the time the project was fully implemented
almost half of the entire system would have been new).
5.5       In actuality, the situation became progressively worse.  NRW
increased to around 60% in 1985 and to 65% in 1986, largely because of the
following:



- 13 -
(a)  a greater than expected increase in leakage, mainly in the
deteriorated, older parts of the distribution system which could not
handle higher pressures introduced under the project (also the water
was now supplied on a more continous basis);
(b) an increase in illegal connections, a large proportion of which
comes from industrial/commercial consumers and more affluent
households (recent surveys reveal that many such customers have one
legal connection and one or more illegal connections);
(c) tampering with meters, faulty zustomer and production meters, errors
in meter reading and deficiencies in billing;
(d) influence peddling whereby some influential illegal (and delinquent)
consumers avoided disconnection or legal action. (Making an illegal
connection, often on a pressurized water pipeline, is a skilled
process; it is therefore likely that individuals able to carry out
such skilled tasks without being easily detected by the authorities
or by the public at large may well have working experience in a
water utility); and
(e) absence of an adequate deterrent in the form of stiff penalties
applied promptly and effectively for illegal consumption and
delinquency, reflecting a weakness in the legal and administrative
system.
5.6       MWSS has tried several measures to reduce NRW, but they have not
been particularly effective. MWSS offered monetary rewards (50% of the amount
collected) to informers on illegal consumers, but without significant
success. On two occasions MWSS offered amnesty to illegal consumers to
legalize their connections, but the response to the amnesties was less than
satisfactory, and at the end of the amnesty period, MWSS did not take vigorous
actions (technical and legal) to flush out illegal consumers. On the few
occasions when legal action was taken on illegal or delinquent corsumers, much
time and effort was needed to obtain judgement because of the bureaucratic
nature of the legal process in the country, and MWSS was able to recover only
the value of the estimated water consumed illegally, or the actual amount
owed.
5.7       More effective measures are now under way to reduce NRW.  A
rehabilitation project financed by ADB was launched in October 1983 (Loan 645-
PHI for US$39.3 million) to rehabilitate 56 distribution system zones (out of
a total of 120) with the highest recorded NRW. The obiective is to reduce NRW
in these zones to 25Z-30% by 1988. Although the project had a slow start, the
few zones already rehabilitated show substantial improvement, with NRW
declining from about 65% to around 302. The project is now expected to be
completed in 1989.
5.8       In addition, MWSS instituted in 1986 an Integrated Program for
Revenue Improvement (IPRI). This well designed, comprehensive program
comprises 48 tasks, some of which also cover areas such as operational
efficiency. The program's original goals were to reduce NRW to 52% in 1986,
45% in 1987, and to 30% in 1990.  These targets are under review.



- 14 -
5.9       While substantial reduction in leakage can be expected from the
above program/projects, it may take a longer time to achieve improvements in
areas such as illegal consumption, meter tampering, delays in paying bills,
etc. which are influenced by socio-economic and political factors. (According
to some sources, in recent years the general public has shown less concern to
pay for, or to pay on time for, goods and services provided by government-
owned institutions and agencies.) Therefore, even with vigorous efforts by
MWSS to identify and take legal action against illegal consumers, a substan-
tial overall reduction in NRW could well take some time to accomplish - longer
than that targetted in IPRI. Because of the prevailing political instability
tn 1986 and the changes in MWSS top management, progress in the implementation
of IPRI tasks he, been slow. Recent projections by MWSS estimate a reduction
of NRW to 502 by 1990.
Operating Results
5.10      Largely because of delays in implementation of the Bank project,
operational results of the system have fallen far short of expectations. The
following table presents a comparison of estimated and actual key indicators.



- 15 -
1978      1985       1986
Total Connections ('000)
Estimated                                 269         659       682
Actual                                    265         454       500
Act/Est. (Z)                             -          69        73
Industrial Connections ('000)
Estimated                                   2         9.2      10.2
Actual                                      2         1.5       1.0
Act/Est. (Z)                             -          15        10
Water Sales (cu m million)
Estimated                                 248         666       696
Actual                                    252         302       311
Act/Est. (Z)                             -         45         45
Water Produced (cu m million)
Estimated                                 472         925       928
Actual                                    468         790       905
- Act/Est. (Z)                             -          85         98
Unaccounted-for water (Z)
Estimated                                  48          28        25
Actual                                     46          62        65
Population Served (million)
Estimated                                 3.1         6.6       6.9
Actual (current estimate)                 3.1        n.a.       5.3(June 1986)
Industrial Water Sales (cu m million)
Estimated                                  20         113       119
Actual                                     20        14.6      14.5
Act/Est. (Z)                             -          13        12



- 16 -
5.11      Since late 19C2 the additional production capacity provided under
the ADB project has been available for consumption. However, construction of
the distribution mains was substantially delayed and the number of additional
connections provided under the project has been far below appraisal esti-
mates. ConsequentLy, the volume of water sold in 1985 was only about 45% of
the appraisal estimate, and the actual volume sold in 1986 was only 23%
greater than that sold in 1978. A contributory factor, albeit small, to
decreased water sales is the increase irn NRW, which grew from about 48% in
1978 to around 65% in 1986 (in contrast to the appraisal expectation of 28%).
The volume of water produced in 1985 was about 85% of the appraisal projection
and in 1986 production approached full system capacity. (However, in late
1986 MWSS revised its operating strategy by reducing operating pressures; this
has resulted in a reduction in NRW to about 58% and a reduction in production
by about 15%).
5.12      Water sales have increased, mainly from residential consumers.  The
increase from commercial consumers has been negligible; sales voiume to
industrial consumers decreased from about 20 million cu m in 1978 to about
14.5 million cu m in 1986. The latter represented only about 5% of MWSS total
sales volume, and is estimated to be less than 30Z of total water usage by
industry. During the same period, the number of industrial connections
decreased from around 2,000 to just over 1,000.  The economic recession and
business failures in 1984-86, and other factors such as tariff levels,
increase in illegal consumption, etc. have contributed to the decline in water
sales to industry.
5.13      Because the system is producing at near full capacity, there is
piessure on MWSS to start implementing another project (Water Supply III).
However, a thorough analysis of water demand, reductions in NRW, financial
resources generation, and lead times necessary would be made in 1987/88 before
a decision is made on a new supply source project.



- 17 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.1       A major project objective was to ensure MWSS's financial viabil-
ity. In support of this objective, MWSS was required to earn specific rates
of return (RRs) on its revalued net fixed assets in operation, and to be able
to finance from internally generated funds a reasonable proportion of its
capital expenditure.
Financial Results
6.2       The financial performance of MWSS during 1978-85 was lower than
projected at appraisal, but has, nevertheless, been satisfactory, sonsidering
that delays in project implementation have adversely affected sales volume,
and NRW has increased substantially durirg the above period. Annual
profitability, i.e., total annual net income, has increased from P 54 million
in 1978 to P 346 million in 1985 (compared to P 23 million and P 500 million,
respectively, projected at appraisal). This satisfactory performance has been
due mainly to tariff increases. Average tariff increases were higher than
those projected (para. 6.4) and in 1985 reached P 3.1/cu m, compared to the
appraisal forecast of P 1.8/cu m (Annex 8).
6.3       In the expectation that the project (including the large number of
additional service connections) would be essentially completed by mid-1983,
the loan covenant required MWSS to achieve specific annual RRs, on its
revalued net fixed assets in operation, progressively increasing to not less
than 8% in 1982 and thereafter. This target was slightly modified under Loan
1814-PH and, because of project implementation delays, was deferred to 1988
under Loan 2676-PH. Actual RRs have been lower than those originally required
under the loan covenant, reaching just over 4% in 1983 and 1984. In 1985 the
RR wits 8%, and provisional figures indicate that it would be about 9% in 1986.
Tariffs
6.4       As agreed during negotiations, an avetage tariff increase of about
60% was introduced in October 1978. Tariffs were increased in subsequent
years and, in response to high inflation in the country'and to meet the
increase in MIWSS debt service charges (arising from devaluation of the peso),
Government approved a number of tariff increases in 1985-86. The MWSS tariff
schedule effective in April 1986 is given in Annex 6. A questionable feature
of the tariff structure (that was also present in the earlier structures) is
the large number of tariff blocks for domestic consumers. Also questionable
are the relatively low tariffs for large domestic consumers who are probably
subsidized by industrial and commercial users who pay higher rates. These
issues are addressed under Loan 2676-PH which require MWSS to carry out annual
reviews of the level and structure of its tariffs and other charges. The
first such comprehensive review was due in 1987.
Accounts Receivable
6.5       Under the Loan Agreement MWSS was required:  (a) to write off and
remove from its books all customer receivables which it considered
uncollectible; and (b) beginning in 1980, to restrict receivables at the end
of the year to below four months billings.



- 18 -
6.6       For various (bureaucratic) reasons, action to write off the
uncollectibles has been delayed and they are still carried on MWSS's books
(Annex 7). Uncollectibles or doubtful accounts receivable represented more
than half of total accounts receivable in 1983 and 1984, and nearly half in
1985. MWSS has, however, been able to limit its current receivables (or
collectibles) to below four months billings.
6.7       Until recently, receivables from government agencies represented a
high proportion of total receivables, even though water sales to government
agencies comprise only a small proportion of MWSS total sales. Under Loan
2676-PH, it was agreed that Government would take action to ensure that
amounts owed to MWSS would be settled by government agencies and local
governments in accordance with a satisfactory action plan, and that Government
would take all necessary actions to write off uncollectible accounts
receivable.
Billing and Collection
6.8       New procedures for  _t._r reading, billing and collection prepared by
management consultants under the project have been implemented. Meter reading
is carried out monthly, and billing, which is computerized, is done at
Headquarters. For smaller, mainly residential consumers, the bills are hand-
delivered by collection agents, who also collect payments. For this, they
receive a commission. At present there is a lag of some two to three weeks
between meter reading and bill preparation due to the inadequate capacity of
the computer system. Funding to increase this capacity is included under Loan
2676-PH. Until this is introduced, MWSS is implementing an interim upgrade in
system capacity to reduce the backlog of bills to be prepared and to improve
the speed and accuracy of billing. Improvements are also expected in meter
reading, collections and customer services as a result of the recently
implemented organizational decentralization.
6.9       In 1985, collection efficiency (total amount collected in the year
against total amount billed that year) was around 87%, which is reasonable
considering the 60% increase in revenues between FY84 and FY85.



- 19 -
VII. BANK ROLE
7.1       The Bank responded adequately to the country's severe financial/
economic crisis which started in 1983 and which would have delayed the
implementation of on-going projects. Under the Special Action Program (SAP),
the percentage of disbursement on civil works contracts was increased and a
Special Account was established.  The Bank also permitted, as a special case,
simplified bidding procedtires for the re-award of those contracts terminated
by MWSS and split into smaller packages. A considerable amount of Bank staff
time was justifiably spent in closely monitoring these simplified procedures
to prevent abuse.
7.2       Prolonged dialogue between the Bank and Government resulted in an
increase in maximum allowable price escalation payments, from 12% p.a. to 30%
p.a. in 1985. The effects of this change on project implementation, however,
were at best marginal due to, among other factors, the tardiness in making due
payment to the contractors.
7.3       The Bank assisted MWSS in the creation of a very successful training
division (HRDO) and provided support and guidance in its institutional
development and financial performance.
7.4       Project supervision missions and Bank inputs were adequate; it seems
unlikely that more frequent missions would have helped reduce delays. Bank
supervision staff also maintained regular informal contacts with their ADB
counterparts and the consultants to overcome delays in the preparation of
detailed design and tender documents for the distribution component.
Nevertheless, priority continued to be given to construction of the source
development (para. 3.4).
7.5       Bank staff maintained a close dialogue with MWSS senior management
on the need to improve operational efficiency and to reduce NWR, and supported
the implementation of the reorganization in 1985 and IPRI in 1986. Bank staff
also provided full support to the establishment of a Corporate Planning Group
(CORPLAN) under the Administrator's Office and to the introduction of methodi-
cal and computerized long range projections. The evolution of the corporate
planning function has now resulted in a valuable tool being available to
senior management and the Government to plan for the future and to monitor
and evaluate performance.



- 20 -
VIII. PRdJECT JUSTIFICATION
8.1       The *.roject contributed to improvements in the standard of personal
hygiene and health of Manila's population by improving service to existing
customers and extending service to new customers, including those in the lower
income. The actual number of customers served was, however, smaller than that
envisaged at the time of appraisal.
8.2       Project construction created about 300,000 man-months of
employment. The project also diminished the depletion of groundwater sources
through overpumpage.
8.3       Source development, including the construction of a dam, was the
least-cost alternative to provide the additional water supply capacity needed
to meet the envisaged growth in demand. Because implementation of the
distribution component took longer than estimated, in hindsight, MWSS would
have benefitted financially if expansion of treatment plant capacity had been
carried out in two phases.
8.4       At appraisal, the internal rate of return (IRR) on the project was
estimated at 12%. An assumption made at the time, which had a significant
effect on the IRR calculation, was that NRW would gradually decline from 47%
in 1976 to 26% in 1986. During project implementation, however, it became
clear that relatively large additional investments in system rehabilitation
and in implementation of IPRI tasks would be necessary to reduce NRW. It is
also now quite clear that, even with the additional investments, the reduction
in NRW would be achieved at a much slower rate than envisioned at appraisal.
Therefore, the benefits from the above investments would take that much longer
to be realized, and in contrast to appraisal expectations which attributed all
additional benefits to the appraised project, these benefits would now have to
be attributed to the entire investment program.
8.5       It would therefore not be useful and might even be somewhat meaning-
less to attempt to apportion project benefits to individual investments,
solely to determine (for the purpose of comparison with the corresponding
appraisal estimate) the IRR for each investment. The recalculated IRR on the
entire investment, using somewhat conservative assumptions, is about 6%
(Annex 9).
8.6       The project has justified itself additionally in that it has:
(a) enhanced the concept, within the Government and MWSS, of the need for
financial viabililty of the utility; and (b) contributed to the development of
a well-managed and structured public utility. MWSS now has a highly trained
and competent staff capable of meeting present and future challenges, and to
supply piped water economically and efficiently to MMA -- one of the world's
major metropolises.



- 21 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
9.1       The project achieved its physical objective of improving service to
existing customers and extending service to new customers, including the
poorer sections of the community who live in blighted areas of MMA. The
actual results were, however, short of the targets.
9.2       The project enhanced the concept, within Government and MWSS,  of
the need for satisfactory financial performance of the entity. Even though
there were changes in top MWSS management, the institution has retained its
competent higher and middle management and professional staff, and is now a
more competent entity than in 1978. MWSS operation and maintenance of the
major production facilities and its financial activities are considered
good. Only in areas related to distribution, particularly in the pursuit of
illegal consumers and the replacement of older distribution lines, has its
performance been inadequate.
9.3       Partly because the complexities associated with implementation of
the distribution component were underestimated, the preparation of detailed
design and tender documents was delayed by about two years. This delay, in
turn, resulted in extending construction activities into the period of steep
inflation which started in 1983. Had the Bank project started on appraisal
schedule, it is probable that its implementation would have been completed
before the 1983 crisis. Again, had the price escalation formula for contracts
been increased earlier and the contractors paid in a timely manner, the
project would have been completed earlier and for a lower final cost. In the
event, not only did the project's construction cost and implementation period
substantially exceed appraisal estimates, but part of the water production
facilities constructed with ADB financing were underutilized for about three
years, resulting in an economic loss to the country and a financial loss to
MWSS.
9.4       MWSS efforts to achieve financial targets, e.g., the rate of return
on revalued assets, has thus far been accomplished mainly by increasing
tariffs, while the level of NRW has steadily increased, and thereby imposed a
progressively heavier burden on the paying consumers. Furthermore, there
seems to be a growing perception among consumers that MWSS's attempts to iden-
tify illegal consumers and to take legal actions against illegal or delinquent
consumers are not vigorous enough. The above factors, particularly the
successive tariff increases, may have led a significant number of previously
paying consumers to become illegal consumers or delinquent customers.
9.5       Changes to the present legal and administrative systems should be
considered because a considerable time and effort is currently needed to
obtain judgement against illegal consumers and deliquent customers and also
because the existing penalties appear inadequate to serve effectively as a
deterrent to those activities.  Administrative changes are also needed to
streamline the existing cumbersome bureaucratic procedures to obtain permits
for street excavation.



-22 -
9.6       MWSS also needs to determine why its water sales to industrial
consumers are so low, and to take appropriate measures to increase them
substantially.
9.7       MWSS should likewise make its customers aware of the progressive
increase in the cost of supplying water, and therefore the need to avoid
wastage of water. This might be done by improving its customer relationships
with the objective that customers (as well as employees) -would be observant
and alert, and promptly report water leakages and theft to MWSS.
9.8       MWSS has developed excellent training progams for technical and
lower level staff. For its senior level staff, for which MWSS has provided
training overseas on an ad hoc basis, MWSS should now consider providing
training on a more formal basis within or outside the institution.
9.9       MWSS senior management is fully aware of the need to reduce the
level of NRW, and is making efforts in that direction. The degree of progress
made on reducing the level of NRW within the next year or two would partly
determine the amount of time MWSS has to plan and to construct additional
water production capacity (the present capacity being almost fully utilized)
which would be needed to meet future demand. More importantly, the degree of
progress made could well be the yardstick used by financial institutions to
determine their participation in future projects.
9.10      The concentration of MWSS investment on source development (to
maximum available yield) and associated distribution system expansion was not
matched by parallel investments in rehabilitating the older parts of the
system and modernizing system control facilities. These needs were identified
and addressed only in 1983/84, some five years after the start of the project.
Lessons Learned
9.11      Contract Packages.  The packaging of the Bank project into a large
number of relatively small contracts was intended to obtain participation of
local contractors, and thereby contribute toward development of the local
contracting industry. However, partly because of inadequate assessment of
technical and financial capabilities of the contractors prior to contract
award and subsequently because of the country's political and economic crisis,
some contractors failed to perform or went bankrupt. This indicates the risk
of construction delays when a project is split into an unduly large number of
contracts, and procedures for pre-qualifying contractors are not fully adhered
to.
9.12      Consultant Accountability.  Because the costs of preparation of
detailed design and tender documents for the entire project were financed from
the proceeds of the ADB loan, Bank supervision missions were unable to
directly supervise and control the consultants on those activities. As a
result, implementation of the Bank project was substantially delayed. A
problem of this nature, in which Bank staff have no direct control over the
activities of consultants financed by another entity, could arise in other
projects cofinanced by the Bank. One solution, though not always practical,
would be for each donor agency to finance the cost of consultants' services



- 23 -
for the components it has financed. An alternative solution would be for the
donor agencies to come to a clear understanding between themselves and the
consultants on the latter's role, responsibility and accountability to each
agency.
9.13      Training.  The positive approach taken by MWSS senior management
towards staff training, and the quality of training facilities and programs
for technicians and lower-level staff developed by the utility, could serve as
a model for utilities in other developing countries.
9.14      Overemphasis on Construction.  A specific project lesson is that a
major investment in additional production capacity must be accompanied by a
careful assessment of the capabilities of the existing distribution system to
absorb the new supply without undue stress. More general lessons are: (a) in
most utilities construction activities receive more attention from management
and attract better qualified staff than do operation, maintenance and
rehabilitation activities; and (b) investment in large discrete works ( e.g.,
dams, treatment plants, etc.) receives greater attention from management than
does concurrent investment in dispersed works (e.g., distribution lines).



- 24 -                     .     Annex I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION IPORT
Project Description
Part A    (ADB Financed)
(i)  source development to increase water production capacity
from about 1,400 million liters per day (mld) to about 3,000
mld including modifications to the existing Angat power
house and transmission tunnel, construction of a dam at Ipo,
aqueducts and treatment plant at La Mesa and upgrading of
the existing Balara treatment plant;
(ii)  construction of about 63 km of transmission pipelines;
(iii)  construction of five new service reservoirs and three new
pumping stations, rehabilitation of 11 existing pumping
stations, installation of about 20,000 new service
connections, 160 standpipes, 3,000 fire hydrants, 140,000
meters and replacement of 5,000 existing valves;
(iv) supply of operations and maintenance equipment and
construction of a water meter workshop;
(v)  technical assistance for institutional development and
preparation of a program to reduce unaccounted-for watt
and
(vi) consultant services for project implementation.
Part B   (Bank Financed)
(i) construction of about 150 km of primary networks and about
520 km of secondary networks, including river crossings,
pipe rehabilitation, tertiary network and service
connections;
(ii) construction of about 50 deepwells, including pumps and
storage reservoirs;
(iii) acquisition and installation of 520,000 domestic and 18,000
industrial/commercial water meters;
(iv) construction and provision of equipment, vehicles and tools
for eight operations and maintenance branch offices and
upgrading of 13 existing branch offices;
(v) construction and equipping of a water supply training
school; and
(vi) technical assistance for project implementation (180 man
months) and staff development (36 man months).



Annex 1
Page 2
- 25 -
Part C (Bank Financed)
(i)  detailed des4.gns for water supply projects in provincial
cities for which feasibility studies are being carried out
under Loan 1415-PH of May 13, 1977;
(ii)  feasibility studies for water supply projects in provincial
cities; and
(iii)  preparation of a rural water supply project.
.



ANNEX 2
-26 -                                    Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT 1I (LOAN 1615- PHL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison Between Estimate (of Appraisal)
Actual (for Currently Estimated) Construction Periods
Part A - ADB-Financed Components
Start Up             Completed
Estimated   Actual  Estimated  Actual
DO-I    F (P 192.14 million)   New Ipo Dam                  05/78    12/04/78   09/81   04/30/84
AQ-1    F (P 299.42 million)   Aqueduct #4                  03/78    08/20/78   03/81   12/31/81
LP-2                             La Mesa TP                 07/78    08/20/79   08/81   06/24/84
BP-1                             Balara TP                  02/78    03/16/78   08/79   10/24/85
RS-2                             iasig Pump Station         10/78    05/19/81   08/80   02/28/84
RS-3    F (P 115.50 million)   Bagbag Res.                  10/78    01/20/81   08/80   04/21/83
RS-5    F (P  92.98million)    Fort Bonifacio &             01/79    04/06/84             (Ongoing)
Noveleta PS
PG-2                             Water mains for DS         08/78    10/02/79   01/80   09/30/84
PG-3                             Water mains for DS         09/78    10/02/79   02/80   10/31/83
PG-4                             Fire hydrants                       07/26/79             12/01/80
PG-S    F (P 189.10 million)   Water mains for              09/78   .04/12/80   04/81   12/29/82
transmission
Part B - World Bank-Financed Component
Start Up            Completed
Estimated   Actual  Estimated  Actual
PG-6    J                        Water mains for            10/78    09/25/80   04/81   03/31/86
transmission
PC-7    J * o                         so                    10/78    02/08/82   04/81   05/31/86
PG-8                             Water mains for DS         11/78    11/04/80   04/80   03/29/85
PG-9                                                        11/78    10/23/80   04/80   09/30/84
PG-10     *o                                                01/79    02/20/81   06/80   12/31/86
PG-Il I                                                     02/79    01/26/81   07/80   12/31/84
PG-12     *o                                                02/79    03/11/81   07/80   (ongoing)



27                            ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
-. 27 -Page 2
Part B - World Bank-Financed Component (cont'd)
Start Up            Corpleted
Estimated   Actual  Estimated  Actual
PG-13     *                      Water mains for DS         02/79    04/27/1E   07/80   03/03/R4
PG-22                                                       05/79    06/19/82   10/80   09/31/86
PG-23     *                                                 05/79    06/10/81   10/80   01/25/85
PG-24                                                       05/79    05/11/81   10/80   05/31/84
PG-25                                                                06/24/81             04/30/84
PG-26                            Water mains for OA         08/79    08/04/81   01/81   03/15/85
PG-27                                                       08/79    06/24/81   01/81   09/13/85
PG-28                            Water mains for DS         08/79    08/06/81   01/81   01/15/86
PG-29     *                                                 11/79    08/06/81   04/81   08/16/85
PG-30     *                                                 05/79    09/30/82   02/81   12/15/86
PG-31                                                       05/79    03/29/82   02/81   07/30/85
PG-32     *                                                 11/69    02/22/82   04/81   09/30/86
PG-33     *                                                 11/79    05/05/82   04/81   08/31/86
PG-34     *                                                 05/79    08/06/81   02/81  (one pack-
age not
yet
started)
PG-35                                                       12/79    10/03/81   05/81   12/15/86
Legend:
*       Contracts which were taken over by MWSS and reawarded.
Components which were reduced in scope/size
Components which were carried over into the follow-up orojects (Loan 2676-PH).
Contracts awarded to foreign contractors.
Contracts awarded to joint venture of foreign and local contractors.
(P)     Total cost in f million.



286-                                      Annex 3
PHILIPPtNES
MAtILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT It (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs - Appraisal Estimate Versus Actual
(or CurrentlY Estimated Final) C;osts
(P million)
Estimated                       Actual
Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign    Local         Total
Part A - ADB-financed                       742.3    689.8  1,432.1    852.02    921.50  1,773.52
Part B - World Bank-Financed /a
Primary network, km (150 vs't74)          221.8    234.1    455.9    261.80    295.23    557.n3
Secondary network, km (520 vs 494)         36.3      85.7    122.0      89.52    173*78    263.80
Tertiary network. km (700 vs 742)          1n.3      25.2      35.5     52.95    102.79    155.74
River crossings                            11.1       5.5      16.6     26.31      29.67      55.98
Wells (50 vs 23/b)                          7.2      14.1      21.3      11.95     23.21      35.16
Service connections, '000 (251 vs 234)  74.0    175.0    249.0          70.57    181.47    252.04
Meters,  000 (638 vs 485)                  89.5      29.4    11R89      46.46    119.47    165.93
Vebicles                                    3.2        -        3.2       -         5.43       5.43
Branches offices and training school-   3.3           3.6      6.9        -        27.00      27.00
Operational equlpment                       3.8       3*4       7.2       -          -          -
Subtotal                               460.5    576.0  1,036.5    359.56    958.05  1,527.61
Training                                    4.1      36.0     40.1        -          -          -
Construction supervision                   13.4      40.0     53.4      42.74    145.08    187.82
Contingencies - Physical                   79.7    101.7    181.4    263.23    510.99    774.22
- Price                     71.0    102.0    173.0         -       318.00    318.00
Total Part 8                           628.7    855.7  1,484.4    865.53  1,932.12  2,797.65
Total Parts A and B                  1,371.0  1.545.5  2,916.5  1,717.55  2,853.62  4,571.17
Part C - Bank-Financed                       22.2        -       22.0      17.50/c              17.50
Total                                1,393.2  1,545.5  2,938.7  1,735.00  2,853.62  4,588.67
/a  Figures in parenthesis represent Estimated v/s Actual.
7W  These wells are ready or being readied for operation.  They do not include wells which
were abandoned after drilling.
/c  Converted from USS equtvalent.



- 29-
MUILA maTER SUPPLY II PNgJgC, 'LOAE 1ISh-PII1
PIOJECT CONPLITION UCPOa?
... _.........._......
Ceepliance mith Lean Cevolante
.._._..._.____.................
....___....._._.._..-...............___................_.__............._..___.._............ ........... _.,,_,..,,,,.._..........
:t3ea *f                                                           Croelapieic
eject                     grief decrastion                        status at                     Precet status
ree~nt
.. __...___._ ._..........._-._.__.............----. ............. -- v*w-*-*-....................... --... _-..._._...........................
07               aeuisitio of ef land and land rights.                2                RoSe Nol fated difculti'tl    i  *oell sittits anea
censtructioen a breath Offises beCause *f land
requirements.  For broaeb  fices. amll it n4s
to fent offie space rether than build o.e  444*ces.
01               insurance of ROSS eroo*rtv.                           I
02               it)  A44frd lenk aptortunaty to coe-                 2                * odor rs-ergsaaatiem Eqs carrIied Su  in 1901-
sent an revision of Oregtdlation                                lb.  Ihale the aoranisatieft structure appears to
structure,                                                      be reason*ble, the number ef perenenat Staff had
*ere than doubled between 1976-SO.
(al)  Staff elan of RUBS to be coe-                  I               Coeoleted.  Retent rearleasnones  love all
plated on revision of orenastaeon                             ePoser to General Manager/Adsialstrater te eobtai
structure.                                                     necessary Staff and classify thee at adequvte lovels.
(is)i loportunatv to coaeent an pro-                2
Dosed appoanteents to Senior
Canaeae.at positions.
Olv)  Establishment of internal auit                 I               PA  tnternal Control Davision has been estab-
division anod lhing doo of internal                            lished to audit $vetees and eraetdures.  Post
audit procedur5t.                                              audit of financial treasenctons to  artried out
by COA.
fvi   EStablishment of a Training                    I               Iuema Reoaurce.eOvelopeent Office now fully
Osvision.                                                      oserational. it conducting yearly stresm of
actsvaties, mith assistance of external trainers
for technical covrses.
.03               Pre*aatiton of a Drogps* by Jan. '?                  2                RMUS has "as developed a  ajar program (not yet
cad  aleaesntation of a oragree for                                  fully  oerationala  whinee  key objective is
reduction of unaccounted 4or mster.                                  to reduce unaccounted 4or mater.  A0S has
ifnanced a *vetee Rehabilitation Project
ta  1933 which covers aleast half e# MS  *evtee.
Thit projett has had a very slem start; slots&
losseu have progreccayely increased to about 435 in 1934.
.02               Audit of accounts and financial state-               I
seats.
.03               urto-off of unncllactible accounts and               2                Little Progrees  roe  write-off.  Nrsever.
bringing down accounts rece:vable to                                  sucluding  ueste-o4f, current arreers ar*
not acae  thai  four manthe  billing,                                generally lose  than 4 *enthsl   billing.
.04               Annual reviw anod aeplementatioe  of mater           I                Banerally satisacCtory sea hel   (4.051.
rates.
.05               Rate of Return eo net fined assete                   I                Conesdering delays ia project icplaeeotataon
""reeively increasing to not less                                    and an increasa (instead of decrease) in
then  2t an 1912 and thereafter,                                     unaccounted for water, the finnecial
results are satisfactory. RON targets uore
codified under Successive leask operations
Lns. ISIS and 2073t St ms Set for 1911.
5.04               *svaluation of fined assets.                         I                Carried out ever. fifth year oh baais of physical
inventary. For antsraedaate years, revalva-
tioe done an basis of estioated inflatien.
4.07              LEeg-tere debt limitations                            I



^~. It *ii
:PI
L.j Lj
- 00  -
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I ~~ ~iO



- 31 -
PHILIPPINES                 ANNEY6
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II (LOAN L61RHi )
PRO!ECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Water Pates by Service Tvpe (Peso)
------------------------------------------____--_
Tvpe Of Service/                       Effective
CONSUMFTION RANGE                      April 16. 1996
DOMESTIC USERS
Up to 15 m')                         16.85/CONN
16 to 20 .3                          28.15/CONN
21 to 25 m3                          41.75/CONN
26 to 30 m3                          60.15/CONN
31 to 50 m3                          2.47/m3
51 to 70.3                           3.04/13
7. to 1003                           3.74Jm3
-01 m3 and above                     4.65/J3
COMMERCIAL USERS
Upr to 25 .3                         117.70 CONN
26 to 1000 m3                          4.71!m3
1001 m; and above                      5.61/m3.
INDUSTRIAL USERS
Up to 25 .3                          154.15/CONN
26 to 1000 m3                          6.17/m3
1001 m3 and above                      7.240/m3
SEA TRANSPORT                           12. 46/m3
RAW WATER                                l. Q/m3
AVERAGE TARIFF                           4.13/m3



Annex 7
-32-
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT It (1615-PH)
.,______________________________________
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Unpaid Accounts by User Category
as of June 30, 1996
(P million)
COMMERCIAL                            TOTAL
fEAR              TOTAL              DOMESTIC           INDUSTRIAL         GOVERNMENT          BtLLED
1986 (June 06)    311.70 (1002)      178.65 (357)         51.52 (172)        91.61 (26%)        602
L985.             160.20 (1002)       71.40 (45%)         13.37 (82)         75.44 (47%)       943
1994               66.40 (1002)       26.05 (392)          7.60 (112)        32.75 (49%)        59S
1993               41.23 (1002)       12.90 (312)          5.48 (13%)        22.94 (55%)        509
iub-Ttal 1/      - ----------                                            _-_--_--_-
Sub-Total              ~        267.03  110.35            26.45             13.1.03
1962 and
Prior Years       120.4              52.89               21.60              45.91
OTAL             700.0              341.00               99.57              258.54
1/ 1983-1985.



Annex Sa
- 33 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INCOME STATEMENT (P million)
1982                1993            1994             1985            1996
Est.     Act.       Est.     Act.    Ect.    Act.       Est.      Act.     Prov.
later Sales
(M7 million)                519    =?0:       597 23             635      290      666        303       .12
Ave. Water Rato (P)          1.7?,  1.5        1.70      1.7       1.90   2.1         1.90    3.1       4.0
loeratina Revenues
Water Revenues            882.;    401    1008.0         452   1143.0    621       1198.9    1009      1513
Sewer Revenues             57.0      50      8-.5         56    123.3      69       157.5      105
Others                      15.8     11       17.5        15      18.4     15        19.7       19
(Doubt. A/C)              (47.6)   -18      (55.2)       (20)   (64.1)   (29)       (69.6)    (45)      -60
otal Oper. Revenues        907.5    445    1052.8         504   1220.6    678       1307.0    1008      1453
lperating Expenses
Personnel                 103.9      s0     123.5         79    146.6    1'Pi       174.-      122      212
Power                      33.3      49      37.6         67      42.6    116        47.8      166      155
Other                      99.6      72     101.9         76    112.3      99       125.4      120      160
Depreciation              171.6      60     219.9         99    239.5    109        260.9     129       201
Sub-total                 397.4    261      4e9.9        321    541.2    414        609.1     537       729
3perating Income            510.1    184      569.9        le    679.4    264       699.9      551       725
-Jon-Operatinq
(Income)                     -      (59)      -          (39)      -      (93)       -        (74)    -114
Expenditure                 1.9       2       1.2          2        -       I         -         -        -
Interest                     -                -                    -                 -                   93
Other.                    187.5       6     193.9          6    210.6      tO       199.6       9        -
Sub-total                                                  (31)             (82)                (65)      -31
'et Income                  320.7    235      3s4.8        214    469.9    346       500.3      616       756
vWe. Rate Base              5899     4751    7150         5105     8192    5963       8615      8662      8067
tate of Return X              8.6       4       9.0       4.2       8.3      4.5       e.1         9         9
/2/87



_ 34                                                  Annex Sb
PHILIPPINES
rILI UNA IR    Y nUIW It (UN 161548)
M U9E  (P etalhon)
t1i2               193                 194                19t5          1986
Est      kt        Est       kt        Est      kt        Cst       At (Pro,.)
bets
6ros reRd  uts                   7367      54"2      92        6504    IOO        8270    10M3       864    1116
las u b    . beee.             1025      11?      1327      1317      1672      164      2066      1.1       2116
ket fied sets                    6342      i315      7972     5187      6l1       6621       867     7103      9030
rk mn Prugress                   158       2443       300      303        0       4240    I1I0       S1l?      4342
Sqtletd                          7am 688            8272      8270      4210    10na      10267    l2220    13372
rWvent IGSW
tlsb                               84       168       121       534      1t8       372         4      711      U70
UAtW  lisaw   # .                           224                 2S7                331                408       635
lesm  Ohtfulkc                            135                155                 183 i22                      284
ltIet  1 .                        159        89       184      102       213       118      228       260       346
Other  es.                                                                                                       it
lnstates                            4        63        S1       9         s 53     112       64       IS        139
I.                                 38       M33        38       2     i   38         8        3a       20
Si-otal                           325       55M       394      473       437       680       424     1046      176
0*3w Assets
Pepimt 1 00                                 17t                286                10                 110       104
Othr                                1         2                  1                   2                  2
fisc.                                        26                  11                 12                 12        15
5ujl4se1                            1       202         0      Z46         0       154        0       124       119
Total   sets                     ?26        56      8666      45        9647    11695    1064       13440    IS16?
CenWt I Lmamltie
6rossOt                          2443"    le 2" 10            2326      2333      3913     24         M2I3    5872
Ins Car   hbtwrt                 56        26      13         55       140       47       142       320       349
htet t23 I? 1OSI8                                       2333   17 a1              386      2052      3463      SS4
Ososts                             6S         4       101        4       106         9      ItS        11        21
Sitatl                           2m        1062      24M3     2275      2301      3S       2167      3974      SS1S
vret  udmlmtles
kcea.ts 'sdle                      20       246        23      489        26       3M8       29       575       758
wtzgtacn                           56        26       137       Ss       140        4?      142       320       348
Oeteord Creits                               12                106                  10                  7
Other                              2         22        28       25        2         31       29        39       103
Sub-lotwl                         103       306       16      615       I"        5216     20m       441      1209
Ctntv                            1392      1369     1342      13        1391     2035      1342      2635      3000
leeliatie n  Sutle               2415    3i0n       2M62      33?       3120    "42        423       442S      3531
Swuls .                           S55       419     1340       918      184        ?755    2309       466     2082
Sisads                            330                 33                3M                   M0
Ssb-total                        5152     61ff      6044      6596      7150     ?2 72?    64         526     861i
lotal Entt  *       .            772m     7564      8666      9540     4645    11693    10641    134t4   1536?



Annex 9
- 35 -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT It (LOAN 161SPH'
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(Peso million)
Year  Capitol   jpe/Masn   Total    Saes,   Tariff   Sales    Other    Total            Net      O.?late  Net Benefits
Expend. t/ Expend.  E-pand.  Volume        (P)    Revenue Revenue  Revenue Benefats    Factor (Const. Prtces)
0f3 mill.)
1979       56           2        so         6      0.6       3.6       6.6       9.6    -46.4        6.S          -96.6
1979       96           2        Ss         6      0.9       5.4       6.0      11.4    -86.6        0.6         -144.3
19S6       146          3       149         6       1.6      6.0       6.0      12.6   -137.0        6.7         -195.7
1981      312           4       316         6       1.3      7.8       6.0      13.0   -302.2        0.8         -377.7
1982      455          17       472        Z2       1.5     33.0       6.0     39.0   -433.0         0.9         -461.1
1983      752          Z9       781        37       1.6     S9.2       7.0     66.2   -714.8         1.0         -714.8
1984      836          44       686        42       2.1     88.2       8.0     96.2   -793.6         1.4         -559.9
19SS      S86          73       961        94       3.i    167.4       9.0    176.4   -784.6         1.8         -43S.9
1986      513         166       619        63       4.1    298.3      10.0    268.3   -366.7         1.9         -184.6
1987     1340         141      1481        87       4.1    356.7      12.0    368.7  -1112.3         2.0         -556.2
1968    lS6          260      2015       126       4.4    554.4      13.6    967.4  -1447.6         2.1         -689.3
1989     1970         240      1816       1S7       4.6    753.6      17.0    770.6  -1639.4         2.2         -472.5
1996     -486         311       799       169       5.1    943.S      21.6    964.5    165.5         2.3           72.6
1991      326         363       683       212       5.3   1123.6    24.0   1147.6    464.6           2.4          193.6
1992      336         375       711       242       S.9   i463.6     30.0   1433.6    722.6          2.5          289.0
1993                  375       375       27Z       5.8   1577.6     30.0   1667.6   1232.6          2.9          493.0
1994                  375       375       302      S9.    1791.6     30.0   1761.6   1469.6          2.5          562.6
1995                  375       375       332      S.9   1925.6    30.6   1996.6   lSO9.6            2.5          632.2
1996                  375       375       362       5.8   2099.6     30.0   2129.6   1754.6          2.S          761.6
1997                  375       375       391       S.9   2262.0    30.0   2292.0   1917.0           2.5          766.8
1996                  375       375       390      5.8   2262.0    30.0   2292.0   1917.0            2.5          766.6
1999                  37S       375       396      5.8   2262.6    30.0   2292.6   1917.0            2.S          766.8
2060                  375       375       396       9.8   2262.6    30.0   2292.0   1917.0           2.5          766.8
2061                  375       375       390       6.6   2262.0    30.0   2292.0   1117.6           2.15         766.6
2002                  375       375       390       5.8   2262.0    36.0   2292.6   1917.0           2.5          766.6
2003                  375       375       390       S.8   2262.0    30.6   2292.0   1917.6           2.5          766.8
2004                  375       375       390       5.6   3262.6    30.0   2Z92.6   1917.0           2.5          766.8
2065                  375       375       396       S.8   2262.6    30.6   2292.0   1917.6           2.5          766.8
2z66                  375       375       390      5.6   2262.6    30.0   2292.0   1917.0            2.5          766.6
2667                  375       37S       390       5.8   2262.6    30.0   2292.0   1917.0           2.S          766.6
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (tRR) 6-
a/ Includes investment under Loans 1516-PH and 2676-PH, and ADB Loan for Rehabilitation
(Loan 654-PH), and other investment for extension or improvement of water distribution
system.



ANNEX 10
-36-                        Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II (LOAN 1615-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MWSS Comments on Project Completion Report
1.0 Highlights, para ii, p. IV
"Inplementation of the project took sane four years longer
than the original sc' dule."
a.  Under the loan, Part B(the IBRD) pipelaying conponent of the project
was scheduled for completion in 6 years (1978 to 1983)
However, the Loan becane effectilue only on Decenber 31, 1978; and
after conpleting plans and bid docunents, the first large dianeter
water main contract was opened for bids in October 1979.  The
first contract for pipelaying therefore actually started only in -
1980.  The bulk of the other contracts were bidded out in 1980 and
1981. The project becane substantially operational by end 1985
with some corrective and minor physical works spilling oxer into
1986, and disbursenents to settle claks of accounts payables
rurming into 1987. Slippage in project bnplenentation was
therefore only o'er one year, net.
2.0 Art III, para 3.3, p. 5
"The primary cause of these delays (on ADB proj&t canponent)
was gomrment' s cunbersone procedure for the award of large
contracts . . .
a. True, gourrment award procedure was quite cunbersane, e.g. uarious
lewls of approwal of higher authorities was at that time a require-
ment in the awards of large contracts. This delayed award by six
months on the awrage. But the real major cause or delays of the
ADB (and also IBM) contracts can be attributed to many of the con-
tractors themselves.
b. To illustrate: Themost critical of the ADB conponents of the
projects were the Ipo Dan, the 4th Aqueduct, the La Mesa Water
Treatnent Plant and one large dianeter water transiissionm4n
contract (PG-5). A Korean-French joint uenture contractor of the
.4th aqueduct and a Japanese contractor of the transmission main
firished their contracts only with a few months (6 and 4) slippage
each. But the sane Korean contractor for a dam this tine and a
large Filipino contractor for a 1500 mld water treatment plant
suffered serious delays of more than 2 years each.  MWSS went out
of its way to assist these two contractors at the technical and
adninistratiue leuels, but both suffered recurring cash flow
problens due to their own financial and management Inadequacies.
In fairness though to the dan builder, a force majeure flooding
his work site 'set back the dan project by not less than six months.



ANNEX 10
_37-                        Page 2 of 8
3.0  Art. III, para 3.4, p. 5
"Start up of Part B of the project, i.e., preparation of
detailed design and tender docunents were delayed by
over two years. MWSS was reluctant to start work on
Part B until sone progress was made on construction of
Part A. Furthexmore, MWSS and Consultants also under-
estinated the tine required to inplenent a conplex and
large distribution conponent in conditions prevailing in
MmA . . 
a. The two-year delay in two (Part A) projects cited in 1.b above which
happen to be along the critical path of the project also affected
the decisions and tine tables of sane of the downstrean conponents
(Part B) of the project which are also along the critical path.
Added to this was the unexpected interuention, at top levels, in
the design (of two major river crossings) and locational decisions
for two prinary water.main transnission conponents of Part B (PG-6
and PG-7). Those high lexel decisions alone were to delay the projpct
for one year, at least.
b. Except for three large dianeter (1,050 mn to 3,000 mm) water trans-
mission main contracts and area couerage (1,400 kilcneters) of
secondary and tertiary mains (2" to 20") there is nothing very
"coanplex" about the pipelaying conponent of Part B. Their contract
tines and es$tnates were reasonable under noinal conditions.
What its consultants (and MWSS) may hawe ouerestinated or may haye
been too optinistic about was the ability of the pipelaying-contrac-
tors to manage their respectixe contracts.
In the case of one of the large dianeter water main conponents, a
well-Cinanced and well4 anaged foreign (Japanese) contractor finished
his contract with only a few months slippage. But this cannot be
said of the joint uenture between a foreign (Japanese) and a large
Filipino contractor which won two of the three large dianeter water
.nain contracts. This joint 'enture suff.ered serious cash flow problens
at various tines during the project inplenentation and only recovered
towards the end, when gouernnent decided to extend all out assistance
to the joint venture in the interest of project conpletion.
Sinilar financial and managenent problens would hound the other pipe-'
laying contractors who:in spite of MWSS 15% cash advance for mobilizi-
tion would have not much operating capital: to make deposits for
forward supply contracts, to meet payroll requirenents and equipnent
leases; and had to resort to clandestine sub-contracting arrangenents.
Fornal reconnendations by project staff in 1983 to take ower delayed
contracts were set aside in fa wr of giving defaulting contractors
a "second chance". At that tine, this appeared to be a more appro-
priate option.



- 38 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 8
4.0 Art III, para 3.4, P- 5
"During inplenertation all canponents suffered additional delays
due to the rollowing:
The Bank project was packaged in a large nunber of snall con-
tracts to encourage participation of local contractors and
thereby prcoote the dexelopnent of the loca. industry.
SeYeral of the local contractors had difficulties with the
contracts, sane for financial reasons (attributed to under-
bidding), others because of their lack of technical capabili-
ties (perhaps a reflection of inadequate pre-assessment of
their capabilities) and in case of the major contractor, ouer-
extension of his contracting activities in the Middle East."
a. There appears to be nothing essentially wrong about si2e of th, pipe-
laying contracts. Scope of pipelaying contracts were fairly extensiue
aueraging 72 kns. and ranging frnm 44 to 104 kns. of secondary and
tertiarymains, ualued at a range of P2G M to P50 M ($1 to $3 M).
These 21 contracts cannot be considered "snall" as they would inuml%e
pipelaying in 1 out of 2 or 1 out of 3 streets in 5 cities and 23 muni-
cipalities. They are only "snall" in tenns of money lalue and in the
context that they did not attract foreign based contraetors.
Their biddings were also staggered: 2 in 1978, 2 In 1979, 5 in 1980,
16 in 1981 and 1 in 1982.
b; The pre-assessnent of contractors are not to be faulted for they were
based on guidelines set in existing go wrmeht procedures and contrac-
tor s docunented subuissions, both as to technical and financial
capabilities.
Much of the failure of contractors were due to:
1. low bids
2. inadequate working capital (contrary to submitted financial
statenents)
3. poor managenent
not easily discernible at pre-qualification stages.
c. On hindsight, it appears that one of the major flaws of go%errment
rules on the prequalification of contractors is the NFCC or "Net
Financil Contracting Capacity". NFCC is based on the contractor' s
NETWORTH TIMES 15.
Fran MWSS experience, it now appears that the multiplier-factor of
15 appears too large. Thus a contractor with only P1.3 M net worth
can qualify for a P20 million contract. Most often, howe-,er, a
contractor' s declared net worth is not reliable especially if it is
-not in terns of cash or liquid assets. -Inxeriably such contractor can
hardly meet e wn the monthly operating cash requirenents of a contract.



39                    ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 8
d. The bank is correct in assuning that "anall" contracts of between
P20 to P50 million had encouraged the participation and the dexelop-
ment of the local contracting industry.
If foreign contractors did not see it fit to participate in packages
of $1 to $3 M in MWSS pipelaying contracts, this policy had benefitted
the Philippines.
1. Sexeral local contractors are now proficient in the art of pipe-
laying and many professional FM  skilled personnel 'f the local
contractors are now in denand in the foreign labor ontracts,
thus earning foreign exchange for the country.
2. The supply and lay contracts created a local denand which
enabled the establishnent of many local firns which uentured
in the manufacture of:
a)  polybutylene and polyethylene tubings
b-D PVC plastic water pipes
c)  large dianeter steel pipes
d)  CI and brass fittings
e)  ialues and fire hydrants
f)  water meters
Had there been no winning local contractors, these entrepreneurs would
not haue been motilated to establish their factories locally as foreign
contractor could haue brought in their constructiorl materials, tax
free. A success story is that of a local manufacturer of large dianeter
pipes who won an international bid in the Malaysian market.
The establishment of these factories has contributed posittiely to the
national econany.
5.0  Art III, pam  3.5, p. 6
"Other factors of relatimely less sigiificance which contribi 3d
t.f the delays were: . . . and c) unsatisfactory quality of
mn. ,erials and equipnent produced by owr extended local manufac-
turers and suppliers . . .
Allowed to stand alone, the statenent may be taken out of context by
sane. But it is to be pointed out that M''SS is the first gouernnent
agency in the Philippines which introduced and institutionaliaed
in-house, day-to-day, plant-6ite quality control inspection for all
trie construction materials and equipment used by contractors in their
pipelaying contracts.
This procedure therefore had afforded %ery little opportdnity for
contractors to use unsatisfactory quality materials. Nor .lhould the
statenent be taken to mean that plant site inspection may haxe "caused"
delays. On the contrary, it was MWSS plant inspection, with its sticker
systen, that assured the incorporation of quality materials in MWSS
projects or the rejection of inferior,quality products.



ANNIX 10
-40-                        Page 5of 
This has become a boon to the local industry a, they haw becme
quality conscious. Other agencies are now fbllowlng, or should now
be following MM fxmple.
6.0  A* II:, para 3.14, p. 7
As explalrud In Item la of this paper, no disburment for 1979 shold
haw been expected, because the loan becene effectiw orny on December 21,
1978. 1979 ws deiOted to detailed deslgn, preparation of bid docmeenta
and biddlng. Construction therefore had to star  nnly In 1980 onwards.
7.0 Art III. para 3.20. p. 9
Local contractors could hawe resorted to lUnited knportations In the ewnt
scae local suppliersnantafacturers could not meet their orders. Unfortu-
nately, they did not autil of the oqxortunity, but *iited for local suppliers
to deliwr because the latter probably had lower prices.
8.0 Art V. Par 5.11,p. 16
Tbe programed nmmber of new servlce connections which ws assmmed under
the Project was based on projected land occupancy method (per unit area-
hectare) basis. The shortfall in the actual nLuber of new serulce correc-
tions under the project may be attributed to the fact that the projected
land occupancy may not haew fully materialized during the project inplenent-
ation period. Durirg the period, housing dewlopment suffered from lack
of, or due to tlght credit. Another possibility is that many of those wha
refused to connect to the systen may haw alternate sources of supply;
cannot afford to connect or preferred to buy fran vendors; or are already
Illicitly connected to the M?5S systen.
At any rate current MMSS efforts are now directed td accelerate new connec -
tions and to flush out illegl services. This should maxinie under
utilzed capacity, reduce non-.rewnue water and inprow MWSS incane.
9.0 Art IX, para 9.3, p. 21
"Partly because of canplexities associated with lmplenentation of
the distribution canponent were underestinated the preparation of
detailed design and terder docunents was delayed by about two
years. This delay, in turn, resulted in extending construction.
activities lnto the period of steep inflation which started in
1983. Had the Bank proJect started on appraisal schedule, it is
*probable that its inplenentation would hau. been conpleted before
the 1983 crisis. Again, had the price escalation fonmula for the
contracts been increased earlier and the contractors paid in a
*tlnely manner, the projects would haie been conpleted earlier and
for a lower final cost.. .
a. As already clarified in la and 2b earlier, the schedules set up for the
project were based on Ideal, normal conditions.
What may be adnitted as a probable m isjudgenent was that only modest
allowances were provlded for contlngencies both in tine aiidin cost.



ANNEX 10
- 41 -                          Page 6 of 8
Unfortunately, abnormal conditions did occur which no one expected
(e.g. Aquino assassination, oil price escalations, the series of
peso devaluations, steep inflation) and can be cited only now and
in hindsight.
b.  Furthernore, the pipelaying contracts were bidded in managbable sims
ouer tine, viz: 2 in 1978, 2 in 1979, 5 in 1980 and 1C in 1981, and
only 1 in 1982. The tining of the bid openings was based on the esti-
mated progress being achieved in the on-goirn source, treatnent works
and prinary transnission mains. This woula llow energization of the
distribution systen to be progressively done as additional wv.ters were
becaning partially available thru the cited upstrean works.
c. Echoing the PCR' s connents, in hindsight the contractors need not hale
been overtaken by the aduerse ewents because they had all the tine to
finish their contracts long before the 1983 crises (that nobody could
:hawe predicted). It is reiterated that there ls. nothing wry "conplex"
in the water main distribution contracts, that a well-managed and
financially equipped contractor could not have done under nornal condi-
tions.
d: Mention was also nade that projects could have conpleted earlier had
the price escalation fornula for the contracts "been increased earlier."
It nay be mentioned that there was nothing essentially theimatter with
the price escalation fornula. This was the wery legal uehicle which
would hawe provided the cushion for any abnomnal increases in the prices
of gouernment contracts. Any change in price indices is p operly reflected
in the fornula.  And govermnent lifted the ceiling of annual escalation
!             fran 12% to 30%. Moreover MWSS PG contracts need not hale been caught
by the years of steep inflation (late 1983, '1984 and 1985) had they
finished their respective contracts earlier.
e.  There was also a general statement which imply that contractors were not
paid in a "tinely manner". It has to be clarified that if this euer
happened, it may hawe referred to a particular one-year period starting
in March 1986 under very abnornal conditions which the Bank was privy to.
But in all the preceding periods, MWSS contractors were paid in regular,
monthly periods, all within the 60 day processing period as provided for
in MWSS contracts. As a matter of fact during those tines MWSS gained
a reputation for paying its contractors on tine and with wery little
hassle.  Furtheraore, when contractors started having cash flow problens
starting 1983, MWSS went out of its way to uoluntarily cut down processing
tine to only about 11 days average (5 to 18 days) to speed up progress
paynents.
Other financial acconnodations extended were advance paynent for nobili2a-
tion, paynent for materials delivered at site, upped percentages of
monthly progress paynents, alnost gratuitous grants of tine extensions
or grace periods so as to reliewe cortractors of having to pay liquidated
danages.



ANNEX 10
-42- _                     Page 7 of 8
10.0 Art IX, para 9.6, p. 22
"MWSS also needs to determine why its water sales to industrial
sales are so low, and to take appropriate steps to increase
then substantially."
a. The decrease in industrial (and euen canmercial) sales as conpared to
the dranatic increase in donestic sales is understandable in the sense
that the thrust of MWSP II was to reach as much of the unserued popula-
tion within the limits of MWSS available   pply and pressure. Thus in
a space of fixe years domestic services viriually doubled in nunber.
Econonic decline in the 1985's and uncertainties in 1986 may haue
resulted in folding up or stagnation of many in the industrial sector.
Sales in this sector will increase as a natural consequence of the
restoration of econonic stability in the country and uery little effort
need to be exerted as MWSS has already made and is making extensions in
the distribution systen into nost of MWSS service areas where there are
many potential industrial concessionaires.
11.0  General
The major setbacks suffered in the implenentation of Second Manila
Water Supply Project (MWSP II) were caused prinarily by circunstances
unforseeable at the tine of project planning. In retrospect the post protect
exeluation may have looked "better" had the project planners/appraisers not
been too modest by providing too snall allowances for unforseen contingent
exents that had, in fact, aduersely affected construction tine tables and
costs. The project estimates as to tine and costs were therefore optimisti-
cally based on "nonnal" conditions. But what happened in the country during
the implenentation period were not only wery abnornal but also rnearly catas-
trophic. These euents happened not too long ago no be quickly forgotten.
These must be borne in the minds of those rendering the post evaluation of
this project.
Notwithstanding all the abowe, MWSP II was an achieuenent MWSS could
well be proud of, In a space of less than eight years, MWSS has doubled
what took oxer eighty years for all its many predecessors to build. Today
the systen is serving 540,000 concessionaires with a capacity to serve
200,000 more, if systen's physical losses can be recouered ouer ttne.
Production capacity is 2,500 million liters per day, up fron 1350 .nld in
the early 1980's.  It has now 3,100 kns. of distribution lines where it had
only 1,600 kns. before. MWSS is now reaping financial benefits fran M1WSP II.
Not gixen much proninence was the fact that it was in this project
that MWSS introduced innovatixe/least cost designs, e.g.
a. a high dan at Ipo in lieu of a costlier, production disruptiwe
wide*ing of an existing tunnel;
b.  3.4 m prestressed corncrete, non-cylinder aqueducts;



ANNEX 10
- 43 -                      Page 8 of 8
c. a hydraulically operated inter-filter back,wash type of treatment.
plant with the least mechanical equipment and with a trlnedia
rapid sand "ilter;
d. large dianeter water mains in lieu of booster punping stations to
sawe on power; and
e. plant site quality control neasures and rejection of pipes that had.
not gone through or passed leakage and pressure tests.
f. MWSS also resorted to TUNNELING in the l. ing of larpe dianeter
water mnains in crossing major rivers and under major or heavily.
trafficked roads. This increased project'costs but was a benefit
to the national econony in terns of fuel and business losses that
result fron traffic-jan's because of open exca-,ations of utility
works.
Moreouer except for certain abnornal tines in 1986, lt may be uen-
tured that the uast najority 1/ of project personnel had perforaed exenplarily
well. They were a highly -notTlated group, fair and even concessionary in
acceding to reasonable clains of contractors, especially as it is perce6ied
to speed up project coupletion; but wery fiim against denands that haue no
c6ntractual or noral basis.  It is in the latter that project personnel have
been called to task and as a matter of fact, even blaned. But signlficarstly,
it is the fiimness of project personnel on these'kinds of issues that, by
and large, would gi.e the project managenent its reputation for professionalisn,
courage and integrity.  In the milieu that MWSP II was undertaken, MW5P II
would stand out.
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It may be adnitted that there were sone undesirables in the project but they
were either allowed to resign fron the project or otherwise shifted to less
sensitiw positions.



_ 44 -                      ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES                    Page 1 of 2
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II (LOAN 1615-PHL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEDA's Comments on Project Completion Report
Hereunder are our comments on the Project Completicn
Report:
1.  Except fcr some minor clarification we generallv
actree with the findings of the comoletion report.
2. Item 1.3 second sentence should read as "The Local
Water utilities Administration (LWUA), established
in 1973, is responsible in Providir1a tcechnical
assistance and loans to locally-controlled water
districts (WDs) in the provincial cities as well
as rural waterworks and sanitation outside of
Metro-Manila Area (MMA)". The thi.rd sentence
should now be- deleted. The chance i.s due to the
abolition of RWOC and the transfer of its function
to LWUA by virtue of Executive Order No. 124.
'.  With respect to item 9.3, it should be rentioned
that the MWSS manaqement had exerted every effort
t.o er;pedite the implementation of the project.
It will be recalled that during the difficult
period between 1983-1985 the MWSS rmanagement was
faced witi. severe financial. constiaints and not
even the national government was able tco offer
adequate financial suvport.
4.  The Problem concerning excessive NRW of MV7SS was
adequately highlighted in the report.  It should
also however be mentioned th.at the MWSS management,
inspite of financial constraints, has responded
to the problem through various programs and orojects
includinc the on-going Manila Water Supply Rehabili-
tation Project.
5.  Regardins, item 9.6, it may be mentioned that an
Ad Hoc Interagency Committee on Water Su;pply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Study has recommended r
that MWSS be allowed to charge commercial and
industrial groundwater abstractors in its franchise
areas to compensate for at least the economic losses
resulting from their pumping operations. This is
based on the observation that a substantial number
of corxrercial and industrial usere in MWSS franchise
areas are using groundwater for their cperation.



- 45 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
6. The suggestions in item 9.7 to generate water
conservation awareness am;ong consumers has long been
implemented by MWSS through pamphlets and the prirt
and broadcast media.
7. Related to item 9.9, MWSS management has already
undertaken preparatory activities in anticipation
of possible shortfall in water supply for Metro-
Manila# Besides the Manila Witter Supply Project
(MWSP III) it is now undertakir.g the feasibility
sttdy of the Angat Water cupply Optimization
Project which is envisioned to increase water sunply
utilization of the Angat Cam.



