Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-236 55pPi
REPORT AND RECOMKSNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
July 12 , 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Peso (P)
P 1.00                  -           US$ 0.135
US$1.00                  =          P 7.40
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm         millimeter                  =  0.04 inches
cm     =   centimeter                  =  0.39 inches
m     -   meter                       =  3.28 feet
km     -   kilometer                   =  0.62 miles
sq km     =   square kilometer            =  0.39 square miles
ha         hectare                     =  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres
cu m         cubic meter                 =  264 US gallons
cums         cubic meters per second    =  22.8 million US gallons
per day
1     =   liter                       =  0.26 gallons
lcd         liters per capita per day  =  0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
Mld     =   megaliters per day          =  0.26 million US gallons
per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     =   Asian Development Bank
CDM     =   Camp Dresser and McKee Internatonal Inc.
LWUA    =   Local Water Utilities Administration
MMA     =   Metropolitan Manila Area
MWSS    -   Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System.
NWSA    =   National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority
W.D     =   Water District
GOVERNMENT OF PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                    Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:               Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
and Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA)
Amount:                      $88 million equivalent
Terms:                       The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% p.a.
Relending Terms:             The Borrower would relend $85 million of the loan
to MWSS and about $2.5 million to LWUA on the
same terms as those of the Bank loan. The
Government would use the balance of $0.5 million
to finance the preparation of a rural water
supply project. MWSS and LWUA would each bear
the foreign exchange risk on the amounts of the
loan relent to them.
Project Description:         The proposed project will provide safe water for
an additional 4 million people in Metropolitan
Manila, as well as improve the service to some
3 million who are inadequately served at present.
It is estimated that, by 1987, some 3.3 million of
the 4.6 million urban poor would have reasonable
access to safe water as a result of the project.
An additional 10,000 jobs for 30 months would be
provided during project construction. The major
risk associated with this project relates to the
ability of MWSS to improve its capacity to construct
and operate a much larger water supply system.
This risk would be minimized by the substantial
provision in the project for technical assistance
and training and by the proposed reorganization
of MWSS with branch offices for operation and
maintenance. Close supervision of the project
will be required.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                 Foreign   Local   Total
------ $ million ------
Part A:  Source Development:                    100.3      93.2    193.5
Part B:  Distribution Pipelines:                 62.2      77.8    140.0
Training                              0.6       4.9       5.5
Construction                          1.8       5.4       7.2
Contingencies                        20.4      37.5     47.9
Subtotal-Part B                85.0    115.6    200.6
Part C:  Feasibility & Design Studies
for Water Supply Projects in
Provincial Cities                       2.5         -       2.5
Part D:  Preparation of a Rural Water
Supply Project                          0.5         -      0.5
Total                         188.3    208.8    397.1
Financing Plan:                                     MWSS and
Bank     ADB      Government       Total
Part A         -   100.3         93.2           193.5
B     85.0        -        115.6          200.6
C      2.5        -            -            2.5
D      0.5        -            -            0.5
Total      88.0   100.3        208.8          397.1
Estimated Disbursements:
----------- ($ million) ----------
Bank FY      1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Annual       14.6  38.7  24.9   7.3   1.9   0.6
Cumulative  14.6  53.3  78.2  85.5  87.4  88.0
Rate of Return:            12%.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 1978-PH dated July 7, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for an equivalent of $88 million for a
second Manila water supply project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum. The Government
would relend, on the same terms, $85 million of the proceeds of the loan to
the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) to finance the expansion
of the water supply distribution system in Manila and $2.5 million to the
Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) to finance feasibility studies and
detailed design of water supply systems in provincial cities. The Government
would use the balance of the proceeds of $500,000 to finance the preparation
of a rural water supply project. MWSS and LWUA would each bear the foreign
exchange risk on the amounts of the loan relent to them.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970, were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly;
exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal; and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand; agricultural
/1 This section of the report is the same as that of the Third Industrial
Investment Credit Project distributed under cover of SecM/78-103, which
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 18, 1978.



-2-
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a
result, the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunatelv, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development stiategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, strengthening the balance of
payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output, and exports
are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade
stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so,
and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Ag r i en 1 tu r a
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricultural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of



- 3 -
irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricultural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines has been virtually self-sufficient in rice, its main staple, for
the past three years.
8.        The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution and
*       capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76, in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown



- 4 -
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle-
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agri-
culture's terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline
in urban real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of
industrial employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the
average urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita
consumption increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance
for price increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live,
have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about
the same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.



- 5 -
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achip-ed in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing
necessary credit channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures
and the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977
government expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about
6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing



- 6 -
revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose investment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in
1975, the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP.  To
meet the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, the
Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to hold the
current account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the Plan period (1978-82).
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo, on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of May 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 54 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,717 4 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $86.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 12% and 5%, respectively by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments, as of May 31,1978, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation because substantial improvement in
basic infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past
neglect due to low levels of public expenditure and to provide the basis
for future growth of the productive sectors. In the industrial sector, the
Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and
private development finance institutions with increasing attention given to
meeting the needs of small and medium industries. In the social sectors,
the Bank Group has provided support for education programs designed to
improve the quality of primary and secondary education and to meet trained
manpower requirements in agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance
has been provided for water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum
living conditions and to develop low cost sites and services. Support has
also been provided to the Philippines population program through assistance
for the construction of multipurpose rural health units and for training of
family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
/1 This part is substantially the same as that of the Third Industrial
Investment Credit Project distributed under cover of Sec. M/78-103, which
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 18, 1978.



- 8 -
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and increasing the produc-
tivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the future program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including a first loan to support the streng-
thening of the national agricultural extension service and a first loan for
developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas, where there is substan-
tial rural poverty. Increased support will also be provided for integrated
rural development projects which will support the Government's objectives of
redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial assistance will also
continue to be given to industry with considerable attention given to expanding
the development of labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the
Metropolitan Manila area. The share of lending for social sector projects is
expected to continue to increase as a result of greater emphasis on construc-
tion of urban water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for
slum upgrading and low cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will
also continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and
for expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the
Bank Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power
infrastructure needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank lending for this will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part
of the power generation program.
27.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall level
of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain substantial
amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms to support its expanding
development program.   In view of this consideration, the per capita income
of the country and the generally good management of the economy, a limited
amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's overall
lending to the Philippines. The first IDA credit since 1974 has recently
been presented to the Executive Directors and a second one is scheduled for
FY79.
28.       This is the first loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for urban development, agricultural extension, small-
holder credit, irrigation and highway projects are expected to be ready for
presentation in the next several months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Background
29.       The Philippines is endowed with abundant water resources.  Not only
does the country have an average annual rainfall of about 300 cm, but it also
has nine major river basins, many lakes and streams, and extensive groundwater
resources sufficient to cover foreseeable needs in most areas of the country.
However, public investment in the water supply sector has traditionally been
very low, with the result that the infrastructure for water supply, sewerage,
and drainage is currently inadequate throughout the country.
Population Served and Service Levels
30.       It is estimated that only about 17 million people (38% of the
estimated 1977 population of about 44.5 million) are served by public water
supply systems. Of these, 3.2 million are in the Metropolitan Manila Area
(MMA), 3.7 million in other urban areas, and 10.1 million in rural areas. In
the MMA, 53% of the 5.8 million population has access to public water supply
and in other urban areas and in the rural communities about 53% and 32%,
respectively, obtain a relatively safe supply through piped systems, artesian
wells and springs. In Manila and also in other communities with piped water
systems, insufficient investments, growth in demand, advanced age of the
facilities and high leakage rates arising from inadequate maintenance have
reduced water main pressures. Many systems are operated to supply water for
only a few hours a day to avoid loss of water during the off-peak hours. The
remaining 27.5 million (or 62% of the population) manage with water which is
often of doubtful quality from sources such as open wells, handpumps, rain
water cisterns, lakes, rivers, and streams.
31.       Sewerage and drainage facilities are also in great need of improve-
ment. Most cities rely principally on individual septic tanks, pits and the
direct discharge of untreated wastes into nearby water courses. The most
recent National Health Plan (1975-85) cited poor environmental sanitation as
a major factor in the high incidence of communicable diseases in the country.
In Manila, typhoid, cholera and gastroenteritis are endemic; in 1972 morbidity
and mortality from these diseases were about 1,800 and 80, respectively, per
100,000 population.
Development of the Water Supply Sector
32.       The National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NWSA) was created
in 1955 to own and operate all of the water and sewer systems then existing
in the Philippines. Almost from its inception, however, NWSA was plagued by
severe managerial and financial problems. The organization suffered from
weak top management, a lack of staff discipline, financial weakness exacerbated
by low tariffs and inadequate financial planning, and recurring disputes with
contractors and suppliers which often resulted in time-consuming court
proceedings. In 1964, the Bank made a loan of $20.2 million (Loan 386-PH) to
NWSA to expand and improve the water supply system serving the Metropolitan
Manila Area. The problems noted above, however, seriously affected project
implementation. After the closing date for the loan was postponed twice, the



- 10 -
undisbursed balance of $0.6 million was cancelled in 1970. Most of the
project components were completed in 1972, although some works continued
until 1975.
33.       During the 1970s, the Government has taken a number of important
steps to improve the organization of the water supply sector. NWSA was
dissolved in 1971 and the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
was created under a new charter to be primarily responsible for water supply
and sewerage in the MMA./1 Since that time the management of water supply
operations in Metropolitan Manila has improved significantly. The financial
position of MWSS has also been improving steadily. In May 1974, water
tariffs were increased, MWSS' capital was restructured and its past loans
were converted into equity, all of which helped MWSS earn surpluses in FY75
and thereafter.
34.       The creation of MWSS had no effect on the water supply problems of
provincial cities, whose needs had traditionally been neglected by NWSA.
Consequently, the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), a semi autono-
mous government corporation, was established in September 1973 to (a) assist
in the formation and development of technically sound and financially viable
locally-controlled water districts (WDs); (b) provide loans to the WDs for
the improvement and expansion of water supply and waste water disposal systems;
(c) provide technical assistance and personnel training for the WDs; and (d)
establish and enforce standards of water quality and service. Currently,
LWUA helps cities with population of 30,000 and more. There are about 300
such communities in the Philippines of which 60 had formed WDs as of
December 31, 1977. To extend further the water supply benefits, the Government
is considering the formation of WDs in communities with populations exceeding
20,000. Since the establishment of LWUA, significantly greater attention has
been directed to the needs of the provincial cities and with the assistance
of international and bilateral aid agencies, water supply projects are under
execution in a number of WDs and feasibility studies are being made for
projects in other WDs.
35.       Responsibility for water supply in the urban centers, which are not
covered by MWSS and LWUA, as well as in the rural areas, rests with the local
authorities. Several government departments: the Bureau of Public Works,
the Environmental Sanitation Division of the Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Local Government and Community Development assist the local
governments, but coordination is lacking. A water supply and sewerage study
carried out in late 1976 at the Government's request by staff of the IBRD/WHO
Cooperative Program identified serious deficiencies in the provision of basic
water supply services to these communities mainly because of poor institutional
arrangements, lack of trained staff and inadequate operational and maintenance
practices. These deficiencies are being addressed by the Government with the
assistance of the Bank and other bilateral agencies.
/1 MWSS still provides support to 82 provincial water supply systems. However,
the Government has approved the transfer of these systems to local authori-
ties. The local authorities will be encouraged to form Water Districts to
become eligible for assistance from LWUA.



- 11 -
Investment Program
36.       To remedy the past neglect of this sector, the Government has
embarked upon an ambitious water supply program in the countLy. In Manila,
the proposed project to be financed partly by the Bank and ADB will about
double the water supply to 2,500 Mld and by 1987 provide safe drinking water,
at adequate pressures, to about 4 million additional residents, as well as
improve the present unsatisfactory service to about 3 million. A sewerage and
sanitation improvement project is also included in MWSS' construction program
for 1980-1983. Without these investments the water supply and sanitation
services in MMA would deteriorate further, and the danger to public health
would increase. MWSS' proposed investment in the 6 years 1978-83 would, in
nominal terms, be about 20 times its capital expenditures in the immediately
preceding 6 years. Consequently, MWSS' managerial and staff capabilities
would need to be greatly strengthened during the coming years to implement
this program and to improve its operational, financial and maintenance capa-
bilities. The proposed project is designed to address these needs. LWUA's
program for assisting WDs in provincial cities in the five years 1977-81 would
amount to about $140 million, an average of $28 million per annum compared
to $12 million in 1976. For the rural areas, the Five-Year Plan envisages
an investment of $155 million, an average of $31 million per annum compared
with about $2 million per annum in 1973-76. While this target is probably
ambitious, the Government is now considering steps to establish the organiz-
ational arrangements necessary to implement a much larger future rural water
supply program. To complement the water supply and sewerage program, the
Government has recently adopted large urban programs to expand basic services
in low-income urban areas in integrated packages of water supply, sewerage,
roads and other infrastructure. These programs will be carried out by the
National Housing Authority and municipal governments, and Bank assistance for
them is planned.
Bank Lending for Water Supply and Sewerage
37.       The Bank's strategy in the water supply and sewerage sector is to
support the Government's investment program for improving water supply,
sewerage and sanitation facilities and to provide technical assistance and
training for institution building and staff development. A loan of $23 mil-
lion (Loan 1415-PH) was made to the Government in 1977 for water supply
projects in six provincial cities. As indicated in Annex II, progress in
implementing this project is satisfactory. The proposed loan of $88 million
would help improve and expand the Manila water supply system, finance detailed
design and feasibility studies for water supply in provincial cities and
preparation of a rural water supply program. The Bank's future lending
program includes a loan for sewerage and sanitation in Manila and a loan for
construction of additional water supply systems in provincial cities and rural
areas. Bank-financed urban and rural development projects are also providing
water supply and sanitation systems for low-income groups. Other multilateral
and bilateral agencies such as ADB, USAID, and the Danish International
Development Agency are also assisting the Government in developing such systems.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
38.       The primary objective of the project is to improve the population of
Metropolitan Manila's access to safe water supplies by (a) developing fully the
present major source of supply at Angat river; (b) rehabilitating and extending
the water distribution system; and (c) assisting MWSS to become a more efficient
public utility. The proposed project was prepared by MWSS with the assistance
of engineering consultants, Camp, Dresser and McKee International Inc. of USA
(CDM), financed by a loan from ADB. It was appraised in November-December
1977. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978 with a Philippine
delegation led by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to
the United States. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Philippines - Manila
Water Supply Project II (No. 1978-PH dated July 7, 1978) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
39.       The principal features of the project are summarized below:
Part A
(a) Source development to almost double the water production capacity,
including modification to the existing Angat power house, the con-
struction of a dam, aqueduct, treatment plant and miscellaneous
rehabilitation works;
(b) construction of about 65 km of primary and secondary pipelines to
serve north Manila, including bulk water supply to Tondo and Dagat-
Dagatan;
(c) construction of new reservoirs and pumping stations at Bagbag,
Bonifacio and Kawit, including rehabilitation of existing pumping
stations and construction of meter maintenance facilities and
installation of meters; and
(d) technical assistance for institutional development and project
implementation.
Part B
(a) Construction of about 150 km of primary and 520 km of secondary
networks, including river crossings, pipe rehabilitation, tertiary
network and service connections;
(b) construction of about 50 deep wells, including pumps and storage
reservoirs;
(c) acquisition and installation of about 520,000 domestic and 18,000
industrial/commercial water meters;
(d) construction and provision of equipment, vehicles and tools for 8
operations and maintenance branch offices and upgrading of 13
existing branch offices;



- 13 -
(e)  construction and equipping of a water supply training school; and
(f)  technical assistance for project implementation and staff
'evelopment.
Part C
(a)  preparation of detailed designs for water supply projects in provin-
cial cities for which feasibility studies are being carried out under
Loan 1415-PH; and
(b)  feasibility studies for water supply projects in provincial cities.
Part D
Preparation of a rural water supply project.
Project Area and Served Population
40.       The capital, Manila, is the main port of entry and the industrial,
commercial and cultural center of the nation. It accounts for one-third of the
total urban population of the Philippines and one-third of the urban poor.
Manila's population has grown at 5% p.a. since 1960 and, as past investment in
public services has been low, many of the basic needs of the population are not
being met. The need for improved water supply and sewerage is particularly
acute.
41.       The population of MWSS' service area is about 5.8 million, of which
presently only about 2.0 million have access to piped water supply through
house connections. Another 1.1 million obtain water from public standpipes or
from neighbors, and 1.5 million from private sources. The remaining 1.2 mil-
lion have no identifiable source of water supply.
42.       On project completion in 1982, about 78% of MWSS' service area
population of 7.6 million will have access to public water supplies; 4.2 mil-
lion people will have direct house connections and 1.7 million will be served
by public standpipes or obtain water from neighbors; the remaining 1.7 million
(about 22%) will be dependent on private supplies. By 1987, when the project
facilities will be fully utilized, about 80% of the 9.2 million projected
population will be served by MWSS and the remainder living in the fringe areas
will be on private supplies.
43.       Standpipes are intended to be a temporary measure providing service
primarily to the unserved population and those living in the poorest areas
(blighted areas) of Metro Manila. Under the Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP),/1
415 such blighted areas have been identified, of which 380 are to be upgraded
and the remainder relocated. On the basis of one standpipe per hectare, about
850 additional standpipes will be constructed in the ZIP areas to serve the
residents of these areas until the ZIP program has been implemented.
/I This is an ongoing program of the National Housing Administration.



- 14 -
44.       Average domestic consumption of the directly served population of
Manila who have adequate pressures and a 24 hour supply is about 195 lcd.
However, because the service is intermittent and pressures are low in most
parts of Manila, domestic consumption is presently about 180 lcd. The consump-
tion rate of 195 lcd with slight variations is therefore used in calculating
the demand for 1982 through 1987 when the criteria of adequate pressure and
24 hours service would be achieved under the project. It is expected that
increases above this level will be discouraged by tariff increases proposed
in 1978-82.
45.       In 1977, unaccounted for water represented 48% of total production.
About 8% of production went unrecorded because of non-metering of consumption
or under registration by meters. Another 10% of production was used for munici-
pal purposes and for testing pipelines and flushing mains. The bulk of the
unaccounted for water, 30% of production, was lost in leaks and unauthorized
connections. MWSS has set for itself targets to reduce water losses due to
these causes to 25% and 20% in 1982 and 1985, respectively, and plans to
charge, wherever possible, for water used in watering of parks and roads.
MWSS would also control its own use and by 1984 reduce municipal and MWSS use
to 5% of production. It has been agreed that MWSS would prepare, by January 1,
1979, an implementation program, acceptable to the Bank, for reducing the
unaccounted for water, and implement the program thereafter (Section 3.03 of
the draft Project Agreement). Equipment and technical assistance for mainten-
ance and leak detection provided under Part A of the project would help
support this program.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The project is estimated to cost $397.1 million equivalent with a
foreign exchange component of $188.3 million (47%). ADB made a loan of
$51.3 million to MWSS in August 1974 and is currently considering a proposal
to make a further loan of about $49 million to finance the full foreign
exchange requirements of Part A of the project. The proposed Bank loan of
$88 million would be made to the Government; $85 million of the proceeds
would be relent on the same terms as the Bank loan to MWSS to finance the
estimated foreign exchange costs of Part B of the project, and $2.5 million to
LWUA for Part C of the project. MWSS and LWUA would each bear the foreign
exchange risk on the amounts of the loan relent to them. The Government would
implement Part D of the project with the balance of $0.5 million. The local
costs of P 1,545.5 million ($208.8 million) would be met by MWSS from its
internal cash generation and from funds to be provided by the Government. An
additional condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the execution of
the Loan Agreement between MWSS and ADB for Part A of the project (Section
6.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Most of the work in the project is below ground and all of the
work in Part B is in the.construction of pipelines of varying diameters in
or near built up areas. Though investigative trial holes have been made, the
possibility remains of unforeseen obstructions, corrosive soils and poor founda-
tion conditions; a physical contingency provision of 15% has, therefore, been



- 15 -
made in the cost estimates for civil works and equipment. This provision is
reasonable for work of this type. Provisions for price contingencies have been
made as follows: 8% for local expenditures in 1979-83; for foreign expendi-
tures, 8% in 1979-81, 7.5% in 1982 and 7.0% in 1983. The to-al provision of
$23.4 million for price contingencies in Part B amounts to 15% of the baseline
costs.
Project Implementation
48.       The implementing agency for the water supply project for Metro
Manila would be MWSS, a wholly Government-owned public utility corporation
created under the Republic Act 6234. Since its creation in 1971, MWSS has
been developing steadily and shows signs of becoming a reasonably good organi-
zation. A Chairman, three trustees and the General Manager, all appointed by
the President of the Republic of the Philippines, constitute the MWSS' Board.
The present General Manager is capable and experienced. However, to manage a
rapidly growing program he would need assistance and expert advice in organi-
zing and coordinating MWSS' four departments of engineering; finance and
administration; customer services; and operations. Internationally recruited
advisers and management consultants (financed under Part A of the project for
a total of 63 man-months) would assist the management in project implementation.
These consultants would also assist in reviewing and recommending changes in
the organization, improving metering, billing and financial planning; preparing
and implementing a planned preventive maintenance program; and establishing a
more effective program of leak detection and repair. An assurance was obtained
that the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on any major proposed
changes in MWSS's organizational structure (Section 3.02(i) of the draft Project
Agreement).
49.       MWSS' Office for Special Projects (OSP), which is in the engineering
department, would be responsible for carrying out the project construction.
CDM would assist in the preparation of detailed designs and bid documents,
evaluation of bids and supervision of construction. The Assistant General
Manager for engineering has the responsibility for the day-to-day liaison with
CDM and approval of technical proposals and all matters related to procurement.
His department has recently been strengthened by the creation and filling of
two posts of Project Managers, one for water supply and another for sewerage.
It has been agreed with MWSS that the filling of any future vacancy in the
key positions of the General Manager, the Assistant General Managers and the
Project Manager (water supply) would be made after the Bank has been given an
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the proposed
appointee (Section 3.02 (iii) of the draft Project Agreement). Part B of the
project provides for a total of 216 man-months of construction supervision and
training services at an average man-month cost, excluding transporation housing
and local costs, ranging from $5,600-$8,800.
50.       During the next five years, MWSS will need to increase its staff
from its present level of 2,800 to 4,000 to carry out the rapidly expanding
water supply and sewerage program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that MWSS would prepare, by September 1, 1979, a staffing plan which would be
reviewed annually and implemented in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.02
(ii) of the draft Project Agreement) and a special training division would



- 16 -
be created by not later than June 1, 1979 (Section 3.02 (v) of the draft
Project Agreement). Part B of the project also provides for the establishment
of a residential training school. MWSS' accounts are audited by the staff of
the Government's Commission on Audit. An adequately staffed internal audit
division would be established by MWSS and by June 1, 1979 it would lay down
detailed procedures for internal audit (Section 3.02 (iv) of the draft Project
Agreement).
51.       No major problems of land acquisition for the wells and pipelines are
anticipated and agreement has been reached with MWSS that land acquisition
would be carried out in accordance with an agreed implementation schedule
(Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Analysis
52.       NWSA, MWSS' predecessor suffered losses continuously until it was
dissolved in 1971. In the first three years, 1972-1974, MWSS also incurred
losses of an average of about P 11.0 million each year. However, the actions
taken by the Government in May 1974 (para 33) helped MWSS, turn the corner and
produce net surpluses of about P 48.0 million in both 1975 and 1976.
53.       MWSS' investment program for water supply and sewerage facilities
during the six years 1978-83 is of the order of $692 million equivalent and,
includes the proposed Manila Water Supply Project; Manila Sewerage Project;
first year's expenditure on the next stage water supply project; other minor
works; and interest during construction. Internal cash generation would meet
$216 million (31%); foreign borrowings $246 million (36%); Government equity
contribution $122 million (17%); Government loan $94 million (14%) and
consumers' contributions $14 million (2%) of the estimated capital expenditures.
54.       MWSS' current water rates, which have been in existence since
May 1974, are totally inadequate because its operating costs have almost
doubled since then. Domestic consumers pay between P 0.20 and P 0.60 per
cu m (10-30 US cents per 1,000 gallons) depending on the volume of water
consumption. Commercial and industrial consumption is charged at P 0.60
and P 0.80 per cu m respectively. The average revenue is P 0.50 per cu m.
Under the existing rates, MWSS would just break even in 1978 or show a small
loss.  MWSS has therefore decided that with effect from October 1, 1978  the water
tariffs will be raised to achieve an average of P 0.80 per cu m while slightly
reducing the existing low rate for poor families consuming 10 cu m per month.
In view of the poor and intermittent service to the consumers, a higher
increase is not warranted at this stage.



- 17 -
55.       MWSS' objective is to become a financially self-supporting utility,
generating adequate cash surpluses (after meeting operating costs and main-
tenance expenditures) to cover its debt service obligations, meet expenditures
on normal -xpansion of its activities and provide a substantial part of the
funds for its major capital investments. It has been agreed that, on comple-
tion of the project in 1982, MWSS would achieve a rate of return of at least 8%
on revalued net fixed assets in operation (Section 4.05 of the draft Project
Agreement). This rate of return would enable MWSS to provide, from its own
resources, about P 400 to E 600 million annually for capital works, thereby
reducing its dependence on government funds for expansion of its facilities.
In the intervening years, 1979 through 1981, as the service levels improve,
MWSS would earn a rate of return of at least 3% in 1979 and 5% in 1980 and 1981
on revalued net fixed assets. The basis for an annual revaluation of fixed
assets commencing in 1978 would also be agreed with MIWSS (Section 4.06 of
the draft Project Agreement).
56.       To achieve the above rates of return, tariffs would need to be
reviewed every year. MWSS has agreed to carry out an annual review of water
rates in 1979 through 1982; consult with the Bank on the adequacy of water
charges based on these reviews and implement expeditiously the recommendations
thereof, including, if necessary, the revision of tariffs (Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement).
57.       Domestic connections account for some 90% of the total service
connections of which about three-fourths are half inch, and on an average
use about 40 cu m per month. Assuming that consumers at the poverty level
of about P 500 per month use 30 cu m monthly (125 lcd for 8 family members
on an average), they would be required to pay about P 13.5 per month for water
under the new rates (para. 54). This would amount to about 3% of income.
For the very poor, a monthly consumption of 15 cu m, adequate for basic needs,
would involve a payment of about 2.5% of income. These charges are within the
consumers' ability to pay. Additionally, to help poor families, MWSS has
decided that the cost of providing half-inch service connections would not be
charged to the new domestic consumers, and would be absorbed by the general
tariffs.
58.       The projected average rate of P 1.80 per cu m in 1984 involves an
annual increase of about 15% in nominal terms over the new tariff. Adjusting
for inflation of 10% (adopted for projecting operating expenses) and assuming
a growth of some 5 - 6% in real incomes, the 1984 projected tariff would not
involve a higher burden on domestic consumers than about 3% of income. The
large domestic users and the commercial and industrial users would subsidize
the poor consumers and the economically efficient allocation of water resources
would be promoted through the tariff levels.



- 18 -
59.       The financial projections show that MWSS' debt will not exceed 33%
of capitalization and its debt service coverage will not fall below 1.6
times throughout the project period. These debt/equity ratio and debt service
coverages are satisfactory.  However, to safeguard against MWSS incurring
additional heavy debt, which may jeopardize its financial position and involve
an unduly large debt service burden, assurances have been obtained that MWSS
would not incur, without the Bank's consent, any long term debt unless its net
income for the 12 months immediately preceding the incurrence of such debt is
at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any succeeding year (Section 4.07
of the draft Project Agreement). It has also been agreed that during the
project construction period, MWSS would not, without the Bank's approval,
undertake major capital works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3 million
or more and expenditures for any capital works shall not exceed the equivalent
of $6 million in any one year (Section 4.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
60.       Billing of water and sewerage revenues is computerized and is on
regular monthly cycles. Collection efficiency has improved considerably in
the last two years but accounts receivable are still very high, equal to
about 7 months billings, and include bills due for over 10 years. MWSS has
undertaken to review and write off old uncollectible accounts and, by 1980,
to bring down the receivables to not more than four months billings (Section
4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
61.       Equipment and supplies for Part B of the project (costing about
$106 million) would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15%
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the custom duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Major civil works contracts costing about $73 million would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. Contracts for the installation of meters and construction
of public standpipes costing about $5 million; for the construction of branch
offices, training school and purchase of related equipment costing about $1
million and for well drilling costing about $2 million would be awarded on the
basis of bids advertised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank. These contracts represent about 4% of the Part B total project
cost. There is potentially adequate local competition and foreign firms would
be eligible to participate. Items costing less than $20,000 each would be
procured through normal Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Compe-
titive bidding would not be appropriate for these small and diverse items which
would be needed often on short notice for rehabilitation works, for ensuring
that the metering targets are kept and for equipping the branch offices and
training school. The total costs of such items would not exceed $500,000.
Disbursement
62.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported equipment and materials, including mobilization and
construction equipment under civil works contracts, 100% of the ex-factory
price of 1ocally manufactured goods and 65% for goods procured locally.



- 19 -
Disbursements for civil works would be 40% of expenditures. For costs of
consultants and trsining, disbuirsement would be at the rate of 100%.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       Presently, over 2 million people in Manila, one of the world's
largest cities, do not have safe or adequate quantities of water to maintain
a reasonable standard of personal hygiene and health and to enjoy a decent
quality of life. The justification for the proposed project is that it would
substantially increase access to safe drinking water for most of the inhabi-
tants of Metropolitan Manila. About 80% of the projected MMA service area
population of 9.2 million in 1987 will be served by MWSS. The project would
also strengthen MWSS' management, its financial performance and project imple-
mentation capability and will provide staff training.
64.       The urban poor of Manila, estimated at 2.0 million in 1977 (34% of
MWSS service area population) are scattered throughout the city in small
groups in depressed areas; as squatters on public land; as groups of one or
two families living with the middle and upper income neighbors or in the
industrial and commercial areas. Under these circumstances, the only method
of ensuring that a large number of the poor benefit from the project is to
lay the network of pipes in the distribution system to cover most of the
populated areas of Manila. Special provision has been made in the project to
construct public standpipes for the very poor and to lay a tertiary grid of
small pipes to the blighted areas of the city to reach as many low income
families as possible.
65.       It is estimated that in 1987, of the projected 4.6 million urban
poor, 3.3 million or 74% will have reasonable access to safe water. The
remaining 1.3 million living in the fringe semi-rural areas of the city will be
mostly dependent on unsafe private water supplies until piped water is provided
to them in the next stage of Manila's water supply program. About 2.2 million
people, or 55% of the additional population of 4.0 million served by the
proposed project, would be the urban poor. About 20% of the total domestic
consumption in 1987 would be used by the poor, and the increased commercial and
industrial water use (about 150% over the 1977 use) would also benefit them.
66.       Approximately 10,000 additional jobs for 30 months will be provided
during project construction and MWSS operational staff will be increased from
about 2,800 to 4,000 because of the water supply and sanitation program.
67.       Taking the revenue derived from water charges as the measure of
project benefits and assuming the proposed tariff increases and a 40-year
project life, the incremental economic rate of return (IER), based on 1978
prices, is about 12%. For calculating the IER, foreign exchange expenditures
were shadow priced at 1.1. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the return
could drop to about 10% if the project costs exceed the current estimates by
20% and could increase to 15% if such costs were 20% lower than estimated.
The IER is not sensitive to increases in operating expenses but a decrease of
20% in revenues or postponement of project benefits by two years would lower
it to about 9%. By using water revenues as a surrogate for the project
benefits, the IER of 12% does, in fact, understate the rate of return. It



- 20 -
ignores the consumer surplus, or the additional value of the total water
consumed above the amount paid for the water. Moreover, the health, fire-
fighting and environmental benefits that accrue to the community by improved
water supply are not captured by the water revenues. While it is impossible
to quantify these benefits, their exclusion biases the IER downwards.
68.       The project will directly benefit the environment of MWSS' service
area. It will, however, increase the quantities of waste water requiring
disposal. A sewerage and sanitation project is therefore under preparation
and is planned for implementation in 1980-83. This project will help ensure
that most of the waste waters are disposed of safely. Because of recent
government policy to permit only nonpollutive new industry within MMA, no
unusual environmental hazards are foreseen because of the project.
69.       Though MWSS still needs to improve its operational, maintenance and
financial performance, it has come a long way since its creation in 1971 and
has made steady progress. However, the magnitude of the proposed investment
is very much larger than MWSS's past program and it will, therefore, need
expert advice and technical assistance and training to implement the project
effectively. The proposed project includes adequate provision for such
assistance. With this technical assistance, the risk of delays or serious
difficulties in the construction of the major project components would be
reduced. However, the project would involve a substantial increase in
MWSS' services, including making house connections and collecting water
charges. The decentralization of MWSS' operations will address this problem,
but strong and continuing efforts will be essential to ensure adequate
service and collection. This risk will be minimized by close and frequent
project supervision both by the Bank and ADB.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The execution of the
loan agreement between the ADB and MWSS for Part A of the project has been made
an additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01
(d), of the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 12, 1978



Annex I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPENES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------______________________
_______________                    .            PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          THAILAND       lURKEY         KOREA SOUTH **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    140.0*    230.0*  45Q*3j                210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           27.4      36.9       43.3/a             36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY                                         144 0
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0     123.0         .                71.0        46.0       327.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0     375.0     395.0/a             263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.1      44.2       43.8               44.3        40.6        35.o
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THoU,AV)          t7.9      13.2       10.5               13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       84.681.       Qf      720                80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        3.5        .        3K.2                           54.6/4.    65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5/a     3.3        3.3                3.2         2.b,c    2.S
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0       3.0        2.8                3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0       4.0        3.9                4.9         4.9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          25.3      27.6       29.8               15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7      45.6       43.2               45.1        41.7       42.t
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6      51.6       54.0               51.8        54.0       54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7       2.8        2.8                3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9       9 0        0.                 0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3/b      1.5       1. 3b              1.1         .1:/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..    320.0   4065.0/a               470.0          ,      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..       2.0       25.0/a             10.0         8.2       42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a            16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         61.0/C   55.0/a   52.67a                79.0        67.0       50.4/a
IINFMP! CYfl (% O' LABOR FOCE)          1. e      7.5        4.C                            4 4.0/      4A .
INCOMC D:STRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.8         .-        *                22.0        32.Wjh      17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            56 2                 5                  51.         60.6       44.5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.2    .'D            A                 5..6        2.9 7      7
LOwEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            11.9      11.7      14.7                14.3         9.4Th    17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND GWN -.,1I-,
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         .,       43.0/C              ..        53.0        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        2.0/c              ..         0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..              1190.               7970.0      2250.0     2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 ..          4 0. GM            6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170.F b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0     850.0    880.0                890.0       500.0     1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0      93.0    105.7                103.0       110.0      103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0      45.0      55.6                52.0        78.0       65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0 /d   22.0         .,               17.0 /a    22.0 L      19.0
DgATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             9,0/e    6.G         7.5                           14.7 /k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATID
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      95.0      113.0    117.0                 81.0       109.0      104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0      49.0      49.0                16.0       28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIPST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0      10.0       10.0               12.0       11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                  4.0/f    6.o/b       9.0               l4.o/b      14.0       16.0
(% OF SECONDARY)                                6.
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  .-         .-     87.0                79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..        ..                 ..         1.9        2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      80.0      76.0      70.0                  .        64.0        80.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0      23.0      31.0                  ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..       7.0      10.0                  *         18.0       30.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0      72.0                          78.0        89.0      128.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       8.0        8.0                5.0         4.0        2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0     235.0     291.0               124.0      247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.3       2.0        1.5                1.0         0.7        3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



ANOSEI
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 snd for Most Recent E.timate between
1973 and 1975.
* GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas m thodology (1974.76 basis).
0* KOrea ha- b-ee a-leoted aa an objective country on the basis of its similar population, location and incone level and, like the Philippinee, it
is expected to grow rapidly in the coning years.
PHILIPPINES      1960                       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  An percentage of snployment;
/d  1960-62;    /s  1962;    /f  Not including vocational ahort-termoras
1970    /a  As percentage of employnset;    Lb  Not Including private vocational schools or vocational short-ter  courses,
MOST RECENT ESTn4ATEi    /s  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1971;
Id  Registered only; believed to be omer-estioate of nus,ber actually practicing.
THAILAND          1970    /a  1964-66;    /b  Public schools, wehich inclsde technical eduoation at the post-secondary level.
TURKEY            197C    /a  1967;    /b  Ecludes 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Ratio of population under 15 and 65
and over To labor force 15 years and over;    /f  15 years and over, ecclcdns uneeployyd;    tg  Registered only;
/h  Di.pssable incae;    /f  Including assistant nurses and nidvives;    /i  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /I  Persons
sit years and over who tell the canaos takers that they can read and write.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  As percentage of eoploynuet;    lb  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    It  Water piped inside.
R10,  Nevember 17, 1977
DEFINITION$ OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
L.nd Al.. (thou kn2)                                                                        Popul-tion per nursisg person - Pepulation dtvided by nsabar of practicing
Total - Total surface area conpciaing land are  end Inland waters.                            male and fial  graduate nuras, "treimed' or "cettified" nura.s, and
Agrtc- Most recent estimate of agricultural area wed tampoaar.ly or pon.a-                   a&-Iilary persannel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastorsa, nr-kt & kitchan gardens or to lie fallo.                     Pseulatibn par hoseital bed - PaPulatton divtded by s'b.hr of h-apse-l beds
available is  public end private general and specialised hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - CNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     rehabilitation casters; secludea nursing hoea and establIslmenta  for
calculated by na   tonvrehiss amchod as World Rask Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  cuatodial aed preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dets.                                                                Per caPita eupPly of calories (S of requireants) - Coaputed fram en-egy
equiv-leet of net food supplie  available in cquntry per capita per day;
Peculation and vital  tati.tiic,                                                              availabls supplies comprise domestic production, tPaort- less empertn, and
Population  mid-vear million)   As of July first   if nqt available, average                  changes in stock; net suppLies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantiti*s .s.d
of two end-year estimates; 1360, 1970 and 1975 data.                                        in fond precesoing and lasses in distribution; requirements wre estimated
by FAO based on physiologiscal needs for nore I activity and health consid-
PoPulation density - per  quere lka  - lid-year populatian par square kilomter                sring   virosenUtal t_sperture, body  eights, age end se. distributios  of
(100 hectares) of total are.                                                               population, and allouiag 10% for waste at household level.
Peouletion density - Per square ta  of sAric, land - Computed as above for                  Par c..ita eupply of erotein (xr_  ear day  - Pretein oetest of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net supply of fond p r day; mat upp  of food is defined aa sbove; require-
ments for a11 countries estblitshed by uSDA Ecomneie Rgearch Services
Vitl statistics                                                                              provide for a dnuimusa alloeance of 60 grrm of total pretain per day, and
Crode birth rate per thouand, aversee - Annual liwe btrtha par thonsand of                    20 gr_n  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grs should be aniual
mid-year population; ten-year aritheatic averas  ending In 1960 and 1970,                   protein; thess standards are Iower them those of 75 grr   of total protein
and five-ysar average endi.g in 1975 for m.et recent estimte.                               sad 23 grasa  of anial protin. as an verage far the world, proposed by FAP
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thouand of mid-year                in the Third World FoPod Survey.
population; ten-year arithnetic averagas ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per capita protein seemly from animal Dad pulse - Protain supply of food
year average coding is 1975 for noot recant estlmata.                                       decived from anl    and pulses in gra    pr day.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rete (/thou) aes" 1-4 - Annual deaths par theusand in aSe gr,,p 1-4
per thousand live births,                                                                   yeers, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
LIfe empeCt.can    at birth (yre  - Average number of years of life remaining at              malnutrition.
birth; usually five-yeer averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davelep-
Ing countries.                                                                            Education
Grcea reproduction rate - Average  tamber of live daughters a woman will bear               Adusted enrellment ratin - Vrimsrv sokool - Enrolloent of all ages as par-
in her n-ruaI reproductive period if she enpeni-nces present age_pecific                    ceateeg  af pri may sohoal-age pep.latton; ilacId*s chsilden  Sged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   bat adjusted for different lengths of primary educstioa; for couetrioe with
for developing countries.                                                                   universal education, enrollmnt may egcead 1007, since sme pupils are belay
Ppolatio  tr-th rots (15 - total - Compound annosl gr-rth rates of nid-yar                    or sbove th-  sffial school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adlusted enrollant ratio - seondary school - Computed as above; secondary
P    _pulati- growth rate  M  - urban - Computed like grosth rate of total                    education requires  t least four years of apprevd primary instruction;
population; different dafinitisma of urban areas may affect toepc-bility of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training iD tructiom, for pupils
data asmnSg omastries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age: correspondence cgoes  as   generally   aIlded.
Urhbn  .ppul.tion (7, of tetal) - Ratio of urban to total populatimo; different             Years oa  ebooling provided Ifirst sad second levs) - Total years of
defi.itions of urban ar.e. may efisni  omparehility ef dte  among notries.                 schoolng; at secondary le_v, vocational ine trction may be partially or
Age  tructure (Percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                 Vocational enrolLent (7.  of secondary) - vocational instit.tione iecloda
d retired (i5 years and over) as per.e.tagee of mid-year population.                        tecnil, industrial or othsr program  hich operate independently or as
Age deperdecy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over rt  those                  doperameets of secondary in titutions.
of ageu 11 through 64.                                                                    Adult literacy rate (7.1 - Litersta adulte (able to read aed wite) as per-
E.cconic decepde-cy -ativ - R-tio of population under 15 end 65 and over to                    e stage of total adult population eged I5 years  and over.
the labor force in age grasp of 15-64 yeara.
Family Planning - ac.eptore  (tumulative. thou) - Cuanittive number of acceptors             bousing
of birth-control devices under euspic.a of national fmily planning program                Persons per roam (urban) - A-erage number of persons per roses in occupied
"i"c  inceptio.cvmt-e  dwellings In urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pernane-t
Family pl-nnina - wecrs (M. of married women) - Percentages of married woman of               structures and uoocc-pied Parts.
child-b-aring age (15-44 years) who uos birth-control devices to all married              Occupied due   ra without piped  otert (7%  - 0c..pied conventional dwllingo
women in sme age scoup.                                                                     toubnand rural areas without inside or Outside piped eater f-oilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Totalol.b.t   fccess.to electricity ("I of al, dwollinlse5 - Caoue,ntianel dwellings with
total labor force (thousand) - E-onesi-Ily entive person, including ared                      electricity in living quarters as  Percent Of tetal dwelings in orhan ad
forces and onrplayed but e.cciding housewives, students,  tc.; definitiona                  rural eras.
is various countries  re cot comperable.                                                  Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7.  - Computed as above for rural
Lab rcfrs in aoistssi) - Agriuslttrs1 labor force (lis farafg, foretry,                    dwelling. amly.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of tetal labor force.
DDnmploved (E of lehor farce) - Unemployed are usually defined as persona wvho               Co.usption
are abl  and willing to tabe a job, out of e Job on a given day, remsined cut            Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking wrk for a specified minimme period not e.needing one                  to general public per thou-and of popsletio; s.cludes             ...lceseed receivers
week; may sot be camparable betaeen coustries due to different definitions                   in cso.trise  and in years whem registration of radio seta wee in effect;
of usomplayed and source of date, e. , eploynent office statiatics, emple                    date for recent yearu may not be comparable since most countries abolished
_sreys, conpuisory snemployment insurance.                                                   licening.
Passenger cars (pfr thou pop - Passenger cars comprise motor cars *--ting
lacc      distribution - Perc..tcg. of private incmse (both in cash and kind)                  lass than eight persona; ecladmudu eblaoces, hearses and silitary
raceived by richest 5%, richest 207., poorest 201, asd poorest 40% of hbou--                 v-hbil..
holds.                                                                                     Ele.tricitv (kwh/yr per cap) - Annul conamption of tederrial, cornci-l
public and private electricity in kilowatt houre per capita, generally
Dintrtbitioo of land ounerahie - Perretragas of Ilad amned by walthieet 107.                   based on production data, without .llo-ace for leseas in grids bot aliow-
end poorest 107 of lend aeoer.                                                               ing for imports and export of electricity.
Nlewsprist (kg/pr ner cp) - Per capita annsal. consumption in kilogrnam
sl..th and N-trititn                                                    ,                      estimatd from dosetiir production plus mat import  of newaprint.
Population per physician - Popalatiam divided by n-ber of preoticing
physicine. qsalifiAd from a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      _            1966-71            1971-76              1977
GNP at Market Prices             20,679       100.0            5.1               6.6                 6.1
Gross Domestic Investment         6,229        30.1            5.9              12.5                 3.6
Gross National Saving             5,325        25.8            2.4              10.8                11.4
Current Account Balance            -904        -4.4
Exports of Goods, NFS             3,792        18.3          -0.5                5.6                23.6
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,690        22.7            4.1               6.5                 7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            %       Million          %               US$               %
Agriculture           5,156              29.0         8.1         50.0               637           58.0
Industry              6,029              33.9         2.3         14.2             2,621          238.7
Services              6,607             37.1          5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                 .           0.8          4.9               .            _
Total/Average    17,792              100.0         16.2        100.0            1,098           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP              (P billion)            % of GDP
1976          1976          1971           1976          1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9           15.8          11.3          18.3           13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2           13.7          10.1          16.1           12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7            2.0           1.2           2.2            1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9            3.8           1.6           4.5            3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976     Nov. 1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            6.5        7.3        9.0       10.3       12.1        13.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector           3.9         2.4        2.0        5.8        8.9        10.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         12.6        16.2      24.2       28.5        33.6        39.3
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                      11.5       10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.6       154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     6.7       17.6       31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1      -38.5      -16.7       190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7        28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                             (Prelim.)           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVEPAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976    1977                                      US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                      478       18.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,000   3,261   3,792   Sugar Products                          469       18.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          4,116   4,384   4,690   Forest Products                          254       10.0
Resource Gap (deficit   -)  -1,116  -1,123    -898   Copper & Products                          245        9.6
Nontraditional Manufactures           518       20.4
Interest Payments (net)           -65    -187    -181   Other Goods                             579       22.8
Other Factor Payments (net)    -61         -66      -86     Total                             2,543      100.0
Net Transfers                     318      269      261
Balance on Current Account    -923  -1,107    -904   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         125      144      145
Net MLT Borrowing                                         Public Debt, including Guaranteed           2,216
Disbursements                   680   1,407   1,150   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                    1,812
Amortization                    323      368     450   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             4,028
Subtotal                     357   1,039       700
Other Capital (net) /a            365      -52    -215   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)          -76       25    -274
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.2
Gross Reserves                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   10.5
(end year) /b                1,089   1,124       850   Total Outstanding and Disbursed              17.7
Petroleum Imports                 770      891   1,016
IBRD/IDA LENDING,  Mav 1, 1978 (USS million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed               607.4   29.1
1975     1976      1977   Dec. 1977    Undisbursed                              988.3   31.1
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,595.7   60.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275    7.447    7.411    7.379
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138    0.134    0.135    0.136
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
Ic  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
Td  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of May 31, 1978
Lean or
Credit                                                          Amounts ($ million)
Number     Year        Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed              252.4    19.5
720-PH    1971                         Rice Processing
"1             and Storage       14.3               3.7
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                4.2
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7       3.1
891-PH    1973            "            Pisheries           11.6                0.7
939-PH    1973            "            Ports                6.1                2.8
950-PH    1973                         Second Highways   68.0                 12.9
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                5.7
998-PH    1974            "            DFC-DBP I           50.0                6.1
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               17.2
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0                8.5
1048-PH    1974            "            Shipping            20.0               14.7
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0               16.4
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation        17.0               10.7
1102-PH     1975                        Rural
Development      25.0               21.1
1120-PH    1975                         Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                8.0
1154-PH    1976                         Magat
Irrigation       42.0               32.4
1190-PH    1976                         DFC-DBP II          75.0               50.9
1224-T-PH  1976            "            Education III       25.0              20.1
1225-PH    1976            "            Livestock II        20.5               11.6
1227-PH    1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 47.4
1272-T-PH  1976            "            Manila Urban        10.0                8.4
1282-PH    1976            "            Manila Urban        22.0              18.6
1269-PH    1976                         Second Grain
Processing       11.5               11.5
1270-PU    1976            "            Second Fisheries  12.0                  9.9
1353-PH    1977            "            Third Highways    95.0                91.7
1367-PH     1977           "            Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 15.0
1374-PH     1977                        F Pourth Education  25.0              24.0
1399-PH     1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5              33.1
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               45.8
1415-PH    1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.2
1421-PH    1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0              58.0
1506-PH    1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines        Parming            8.0               8.0
1514-PH *  1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)           30.0              30.0
1526-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippines        Irrigation
Systems
Improvement      65.0               65.0
790-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Rural Infra-
Philippines        structure         28.0              28.0
0.8-PH *  1978    Republic of the
Philippines      Education            2.0               2.0
1547-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Rural Electri-
Philippines        fication          60.0              60.0
1555-PH    1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC-PISO             15.0               15.0
1567-PH *  1978    Republic of the
Philippines      MAGAT II           150.0             150.0
1572-PH *  1978    Republic of the
Philippines      Industrial
Investment III  80.0                30.0
Total                                           _,717.4    60.2  1,049.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                        112.7       -
Total now outstanding                           1,604.7    60.2
Amount sold                        22.1
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                 13.1              9.0       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                1,595.7    60.2
Total undisbursed                                 988.3    31.1  1,019.4
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of May 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                     Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                               15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                       8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                          4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                  0.8     0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                  -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation              6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0        -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation         1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5        0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation              1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0       -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6     0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3     1.2       3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                     71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                       25.7    12.0      37.7
Total commitments now held by IFC           45.3      3.3     48.6
Undisbursed                                  3.5        -      3.5



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%.  The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction should soon be
started.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Proiect; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detail design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction is commending. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Prolect; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule, however, with strengthening of
design teams in the regional offices, a major part of the design would be
completed before the end of 1978.  Construction activities during 1977/78 dry



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13 pages
season are limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construc-
tion of service roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. A good start has
been made in setting up the administrative structure of the project implemen-
ting unit and in improving its planning capacity. Physical progress is
somewhat behind schedule as a result of procedural difficulties in obtaining
local counterpart funds. This problem, however, is being resolved and
project implementation can be expected to be completed on time.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government to improve and develop irriga-
tion systems for a total of 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen
the National Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement
was signed on March 15, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of parts, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads is expected to start in November 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1563-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will eventually assist the Government with the comple-
tion of Package IV, improve and provide water to irrigation systems for a total
of 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works on dam
foundation grounding, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion tunnels
are underway and expected to be completed by 1979. Bids for civil works con-
tract for the main dam were opened on April 27, 1978 and are now being evaluated.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress has improved on civil works construction for both General
Santos and Cagayan de Oro, and the delays reduced to two and five months
respectively behind schedule. Work is now 65% completed at General Santos and
40% at Cagayan de Oro. About 180 m of the new quay at General Santos and 60 m
at Cagayan de Oro, have been turned over to the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) and are now in use.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 95% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control has been procured, civil
works for permanent weigh stations are underway and the axle load control
program is scheduled for initial implementation by August 1978. The total
cost of the project has increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal
estimate) due to the oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project
execution, and continuing inflation.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and contractor
mobilization is underway. Consultants for supervision of construction have
been appointed and have established themselves in the field. The technical
assistance advisors for maintenance improvement and road restoration have
been appointed and took up their duties beginning in September 1977. The
training advisors were appointed and began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies have been appointed and
began work in November 1977. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision have been appointed and began work in May 1977. After a
delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance and road restoration program
is now beginning to be implemented with planning of road restoration proj-
ects underway, contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded, procurement con-
tracts for maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and machinery being
prepared and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall, project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indications are
that project execution will be delayed by about 12 months due to late start
of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and
evaluate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher
training and primary classroom teaching. The loan was signed on April 21,
1978. The project is at an early stage of organization.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13 pages
There has been a delay of about 2 months in the preparation of detailed designs
for the construction of water supplies to six cities. This loss of time is
expected to be made up in the coming months. The preparation of feasibility
studies for 10 cities is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study.
The Government is also taking action for the training of staff in the design of
small community water supplies.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which
has been postponed from June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978. A tariff
increase was approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable
NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in
operation. Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable ando
financiaily viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP nortion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small- and medium-scale industries.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan was signed on May 8, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13. 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.






PHILIPPINES
SECOND MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 24 months
(b) The project was prepared by MWSS with the assistance of consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  June, 1977 - First mission
to consider the project: August 1977.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  October 1977
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  May 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
A Bank mission visited the Philippines in June to review progress in
project implementation and agreed with the Philippine Government as well as
MWSS, on a timetable to assure the effective implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in Loan and Project
Agreements:
(a) MWSS would prepare, by January 1, 1979, an implementation program for
reducing the unaccounted for water (para. 45);
(b) An additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan would be the
execution of the loan agreement between MWSS and the Asian Develop-
ment Bank for implementing Part A of the project (para. 46);
(c) MWSS would give the Bank an opportunity to comment on any major pro-
posed changes in its organizational structure (para. 48).;
(d) MWSS would establish a training and an internal audit division by
June 1, 1979 and June 1, 1979, respectively (para. 50);
(e) MWSS would prepare a staffing plan by September 1, 1979, which would
be reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank (para. 50);



- 2 -
(f) MWSS would acquire land for the project in accordance with agreed
implementation schedule (para. 51);
(g) MWSS would earn a rate of return of at least 3% in 1979, 5% in
1980 and 1981 and 8% in 1982 on its revalued net fixed assets in
operation (para. 55);
(h) MIWSS would carry out an annual review of water rates in 1979 through
1982; consult with the Bank on the adequacy of water charges based
on these reviews and implement expeditiously the recommendations
thereof, including, if necessary, the revision of tariffs (para. 56);



PH LIPPINES
METROPOLITAN MAN LA AREA
Metropolitan Water Works and Sewerage System                                                                                       P       DAM
MANILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT II
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                 N
STAGE LE PROJEC'
COMPWEfED    BANK        ADP
EXISING    PROJECT    PROJECT    PROJECT                                                                        IPO DAM
D,str,lb,aro, Mains                                    TiNEL-
A                                tz      Reservoirs                                                            I
*                                r       Treotrrent Plants                       /T    CT
*                     i9Wells                                                   I
0D                              i-p      Pum,rping Starions
Bounadry of nly,ng Arec tPresenr Boundary)
-A-A-  Boundary of 11ir,ng Area (Afle' Corrpleron of Projec/_
- -  -   Service Area Boundary
..... .   -  M,Mnc pa Boundary
Roads
RaDIWaYs
Pro ect Di,sr,bt,or, Systee Area (Fea-ced by BANK)
f          3  Project Dlstr bueton Sysenm Area (Fmonced by ADB)                                              MCNTAL
A 7                 /    <)                                       C A LOO C AN cIT rY  :         
.. .\_   n  u G    ;    or        ~~~                                     ~~r .. tNovo/,hes  -                                                    14-4 5-
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45
. 0 0;  ; 0  ; 0  t 9    >      .;yVALENZLJELA      .                - pAMS                                           | 
P0               ;. /s  t   /MARIKINA
0   0              ~~~~~CITY  Of-                                                     ...                        
MANIL            MANIA
M  A       .fV  tl A                                                     0                                                          } ut"/TERE SA
E                   W\ \,eM~~~~~ ~ ~~~AKA7!       '     .n \          TAYTAY         /
BA Y                                                                                                   ANGONO
/It@/E/X/  9 g _ :t -- - u / A G U N A
NoIvELErTA                                                                                 B/e A4 Y    ;              l         )    Z   Ser
( \ _ / t 0  _  2    3    0   1 4                    aeiW
(    --  \              -             l,                       A\  X               ti INAS  N    -   s         : 0                          a
sui_._   .   .   V   z   z   :  X   On
I  I  1          0--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'






W
Z
T, t
e
A
LW
IIAE   5TAGZ
MpoD ADI
C=iEFTCb
P
PROJECT  gojeci  ?Upue
Dt,;btlo 5yo..
v"
P",fw Dwf-b.l- Se-. A, tff-Cdty 8ANK
"281 -n
byADD
-VE-El                               AS
Areo
zAGUNA Of B4-
MR11                                                          %
PWLIPPINES
MErROPOLITAN MANILA ARV
11    MetroporttOn Water Wor6 and
MANILAWATER WPPLY PROJECT B
DISTRIBUTON SYSTEM
L






ABD I378
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~I7
<l
Lf u
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
Il  --
go                                                      co~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



