The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P-6077-IN
Report No. :P- 6077-IN        Type: (PR)
Title:  INDIA'S EXTERNAL SECTOR AND IN
Author: 2AGHA, R.
Ext. :80348 Room:G 3111 Dept. :SA2CI
REPORT AN  RECOMMATION
OF ?HE
PRESIDINT OF THE
INERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMD DEVLOPMET
TO T1E
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
FOR A PROGRAM TO lIBERALIZE
INDIA'S EXTERNAL SECTOR AND INVESTMENT REGIMB
June 1, 1993
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
India Department
South Asia Region
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency                                                       Rs/US$
Official                 Market
Prior to June 1966                                4.8
June 6, 1966 to mid-December 1971                 7.5
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972                7.3
1971-72                               7.4
1972-73                               7.7
1973-74                              7.8
1974-75                              8.0
1975-76                               8.7
1976-77                               8.9
1977-78                               8.6
1978-79                               8.2
1979-80                               8.1
1980-81                               7.9
1981-82                               8.9
1982-83                               9.6
1983-84                               10.3
1984-85                               11.9
1985-86                               12.2
1986-87                              12.8
1987-88                              13.0
1988-89                               14.5
1989-90                               16.7
1990-91                              18.0
1991-92                              24.5
1992-93                              26.4                      30.3
March 1993                            31.5                     31.5
Source:     IMF,  International Financial Statistics  (IFS), line "rf. ,  and
Reserve Bank of India.
Note:       The Indian fiscal yeLr runs from April 1 through March 31.
A free market for foreign exchange was created in March 1992 with
some transactions taking place at the official rate. The exchange
rate was reunified at the beginning of March 1993 at the free market
rate with all transactions now taking place at the market rate.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LX9URALZUAON OF NIDW  8 UXTN    S3CTOR AmD ZNVN8TxENT RNGISI
Boxrower:         India, acting by its President
xencutgn Aaeav: Ministry of Finance
Anuat:            IBRD Loan: US$300 million
Te=a:             Repayment over twenty years. including five years of grace, at
the standard interest rate.
Deseriution:      The  proposed  External  Sector  and  Investment  Regime
Liberalization Loan supports the measures recently taken by
the Government to further liberalize the external sector and
.nvestment regime.  These measures are: (i) reduction of
tariffs; (ii) delicensing of domestic industries; (iii)
liberalization of the foreign exchange market and unification
of the exchange rate; (iv) amendment of the Foreign Exchange
Regulations Act of 1973; and (v) initiating liberalization of
consumer goods imports.
Am2ftft:          Through the proposed operation the Bank would be supporting
the Governmetnt's program to increase external and domestic
competition.   This program is critical for increasing the
competitiveness of India's industrial sector and the export
orientation of the economy. The proposed operation is also
part of the Bank's country assistance strategy for India
discussed and endorsed by the Board in December 1992. The
proposed operation would help finance India's balance of
payments. Without such financing, the transitional costs of
adjustment would be higher--particularly in terms of growth
and inflation.
Risks:            The reforms supported by this operation will produce their
full potential benefits only if, over the next few years, the
Government continues to take steps to remove remaining import
licensing restrictions and export controls, and reduce
tariffs.    The trade reform process could be interrupted,
however,  because  of:  (i)  its  actual  or  perceived
redistributive consequences; or (ii) political opposition to
the whole reform process. However, the Government has thus
far managed the politics of reform well, by building consensus
and demonstrating the gains stemming from reform.
Diobursoenta:    The prr,osed loan would be disbursed in one tranche upon
effectiveness.
This document has a etricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcl duties. Its contents may not otherie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Da
EXSASIM    SCOR=  AIRZD NM INVXEll"CStn ^B;2f|S2L3SUlSb
Table of Content
PAaae o
I~~~~~.             . N O CN .     . .     . .     . .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     . .     .
II.        *SO-CM>                                                         1
II.  THE  2I.MQZI.QML                 ..   ..   ..   ..   ..     .  .     1
A. Introduction                         1. 
B.   Progress and Prospects in Stabilizing the Bconomy . . . . . . . 2
IIS. THB LSIERALIZATION OF INDIA' S EXTERNAL SEUXQ= AND INVESTMZNT RGIM  . 6
A.   sackground  .                                                   6
B.   The Liberalization of India's a xchange Rate and Bxternal
Payments Regime                      .                       9
C.   The Liberalization of India's Trade Regime        .            10
D.   The Liberalization of India's Investment Regime     .          17
IV.  TH PROPO SDAWDU 8TM.             ................. ... 19
A.   Loan Objectives and Link with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy .19
S.  External Financing Requirements .20
C.   Loan Administration ..................... . 21
D.   Benefits and Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 22
'v'. =M-TIRTxt  2e
1.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-1994 ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 4
2.   Tariffs and Collection Rates - International Comparisons  . . . 13
3.   Tariff Structure, 1990-94 ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 14
4.   Frequency Distribution of Tariffs, 1990-94  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 14
s.   Number of Items Subject to Export Controls, 1990-93 ..... . 15
6.   Foreign Collaboration Approvals--Pre- and Post-July 1991 Reform 19
7.   Summary of Reforms Supported by the Proposed operation  . . . 20
Annexes
1.   Letter of Development Policy  .....  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   . 25
2.   The Recent Bvolution of India's Trade Regime .37
3.   The Evolution of the Tariff Structure .39
4.   Mey Macroeconomic Indicators  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 41
5.   Rxtornal Financing Requirements .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 43
6.   Status of Bank operations in India ............. . 45



CAB         Country Assistance Strategy
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
EFF         Extended Financing Facility
nEAF        Enbanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FERA        Foreign Exchange Regulation Act
FlAI        Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FIPS        Foreign Investment Promotion Board
CDP         Gross Domestic Product
KS          Harmonized System
ED          international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Develqpment Association
IMP         International Monetary Fund
LERMS       Liberalized Exchange Rate Management System
NIP         New Industrial Policy
ODA         Official Development Assistance
OECD        Organization fcr Economic Cooperation and Development
OGL         Open General License
PR          Public Enterprise
Rai         Reserve Bank of India
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SIA         Secretiriat of Industrial Approvals
8IL         Special Import License
SOB         Statement of Expenditures



REPORT AND RBC0IXRD ATZON 01 TRR PRE8XD3IT
OF THB 2NTERATZONAL 3AIN  FOR RWCON8TRCZXON AND DEVELOPUNT
TO TUN NINCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSD AtJ1O8TINT LOaN
FOR A PROGRAM TO LIBERALIZE
INDIA'8 EXTERNAL SECTOR AND INVE85XBT REIIM
PART X.  XTODVMON
1.        I submit the following report and recomzuendation on a proposed
External Sector and Investment Liberalization loan to the Government of India.
The proposed operation would be for the equivalent of US$300 million to be
disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness and would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the IBRD' s standard interest rate. The proposed
loan would be in support of measures the Government has taken over the last few
months to liberalize India's external sector and investment regime, as part of
its ongoing reform program in these two policy areas.
2.        After the UV$500 million SAL in December 1991, and the US$500 million
Social Safety Ne- Adjustment Program in December 1992, this would be the third
policy-based loan since the Bank made adjustment lending a central element of its
country assistance strategy for India.  The rationale for such lending was
articulated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed and endorsed by
the Board in December 1992. The CAS also indicated that a loan in support of the
liberalization of India's external sector would be the next adjustment operation
brought to the Board.
3.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 11761-IN; India, Progress
and Challenges in Economic Transition) uvas distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 26, 1993.
PART II. THE MA XROECONOWIC FRaMWORK
A.   Introduction
4.        The Government that came to power in June 1991 inherited an economy
in crisis. The central Government fiscal deficit had reached 8.4 percent of GDP
in 1990-91 and, if uncorrected, would have exceeded 10 percent of GDP in 1991-92.
At double digits since November 1990, India's historically low inflation rate
continued to increase and reached 17 percent (on a point-to-point basis) in
August 1991. With reserves at about US$1 billion (two weeks of imports) and no
external finance available from commercial sources, the country was on the verge
of defaulting on  its external debt.   On the structural  front,  several
liberalization efforts in the 1980s had addressed India's most important
structural problems only very partially, and had left basically intact the
complex system of controls and interventions built over several decades of
planned development.
5.        In less than two years, the new Government has not only overcome the
balance of payments crisis and reduced fiscal imbalances, but has also initiated
a major change in the country's development strategy aimed at transforming India
into an internationally competitive economy. The Government's structural reform
program focuses on five priority areas: (i) trade; (ii) investment licensing;
(iii) financial sector; (iv) taxation; and (v) public enterprises. Several high
level committees (the Narasimham Committee on Financial Sector Reform, the
Chelliah Committee on Tax Reforms and the Rangarajan Committee on Public
Enterprise Reform) have helped articulate the policies needed in these critical
areas and set short and medium-term targets for trade, tax and financial sector
reforms.
6.        The IMF, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and other
multilaterals and bilaterals, particularly Japan, have provided strong support
to the Government's economic program and helped India meet its exceptional
financing requirements of US$2.5 billion a year in 1991-92 and 1992-93. India
will continue to rely on the IMF, the Bank, and other multilaterals and
bilaterals to finance the country's exceptional financing needs (para. 65). A



3-year EFF to be complemented by ESAP resources in support of the Government's
economic program is currently being discussed with the IMP.
7.        The Government's economic program and its medium-term stabilization
and reform targets were reviewed in the May 1992 Country Economic Memorandam
(Report No. 10489-IN; India, Stabilizing and Reforming the Bconomy), and in tha
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in December 1992. The
CAS also contains an analysis of the social repercussions of the stabilization
and reform program underway. More recent macroeconomic developments, progress
in stabilizing the economy, measures taken over the last year to reform the
financial sector and the tax system, as well as other reform measures, are
analyzed in the May 1993 Country Econoodc Memorandum. The section below briefly
reviews India's recent macro-economic performance.  Part III analyzes in detail
the receat measures the Government has taken to liberalize India's external
sector and investment regime in support of which this loan is proposed to be
extended.
B.   Progress and Prospects in StabilizinQ the Sconomv
8.        Fiscal and Monetary Policies.  In less than two years, the Government
has made remarkable progress to overcome the crisis it had inherited and
consolidate the macro-economic situation. Demand management has been at the
heart of the Government's economic program, through fiscal adjustment as well as
contractionary monetary policies.  Primarily through non-interest expenditure
cuts which have been concentrated on subsidies, defense, and capital spending
(see Table 1), the central government fiscal deficit has been reduced from 8.4
percent of GDP in 1990-91 to 6.2 percent of GDP in 1991-92, and 5.7 perciat in
1992-93. The latter exceeded the planned target of 5 percent of GDP. This is
mostly due to serious social unrest in December 1992-February 1993 in Bombay and
other parts of the country which disrupted economic activities and significantly
reduced tax collections.   This moderate slow-down in the pace of fiscal
adjustment notwithstanding, the primary deficit has been reduced from 4.4 percent
of GDP in 1990-91 to 1 percent of GDP in 1992-93. While the focus of the fiscal
consolidation effort has been on the Central Government, the states and public
enterprises have also been forced to adjust their spending as loans and transfers
from the Central Government were curtailed. Including the states and public
enterprises, the consolidated public sector deficit is estimated to have declined
from 12.2 percent of GDP in 1990-91 to 9 percent of GDP in 1992-93.
9.        Fiscal adjustment has been accompanied by monet    restraint, except
in 1991-92 when the rapid build-up in foreign exchange reserves led base money
to expand by 20 percent. Reserve money growth decelerated to 8 percent in 1992-
93, however, while broad money growth declined from 19 percent in 1991-92 to 13
percent in 1992-93. This is well below India's long term trend rate of growth
of broad money, which, reflecting the rapid monetization of the economy, has been
at a 15-20 percent annually since the early 1970s. As inflation declined (para.
17) and nominal interest rates remained relatively stable, real interest rates
have gradually increased in the last two years. Real interest rates on deposits
have been at over 5 percent over the last few months, and lending rates at well
over 10 percent.
10.       The Government has indicated that fiscal adjustment will continue.
Mostly through further expenditure reduction, the 1993-94 budget aims at reducing
the fiscal deficit to 4.7 percent of GDP, equivalent to a small primary surplus.
In addition, the 1993-94 budget has also introduced important structural measures
which further consolidate the fiscal situation and accommodate the cost of
important structural reforms. First by reunifying the exchange rate, it has
eliminated an implicit off-budget subsidy amounting to 0.7 percent of GDP, the
cost of which was being borne by exporters (paras. 28 and 29). feqqna the 1993-
94 budget accommodates the sizeable fiscal costs (1 percent of GDP) of much
needed structural reforms. Reductions in tariffs on intermediates and capital
goods imply a revenue loss of about 0.4 percent of GDP, while the rationalization
of excises implies a revenue loss of another 0.2 percent of GDP (para. 11).
Increases in outlays for programs supported by the December 1992 Social Safety
Net Adjustment operation for rural employment, education, health and family
welfare, account for another 0.4 percent of GDP. Besides improving the quality



of fiscal adjustment, these reforms will also help improve the disbursement
performance of several IDA operations. Accommodating the fiscal cost of these
structural reform measures has meant that the fiscal deficit will be reduced at
a slower pace than envisaged previously and that the fiscal deficit budgeted for
1993-94 is higher than the 4 percent indicated in the CAS of December 1992.
However, the contractionary effect of the 1993-94 budget on aggregate demand is
much sharper than suggested by the reduction of the fiscal deficit. Non-interest
central government expenditure is budgeted to decline by 5 percent in real terms.
In terms of GDP, it is budgeted to decline from 12.8 percent of GDP in 1992-93
to 11.9 percent of GDP.
11.       With major expenditure needs for the development of India's human
resources and infrastructure, continuous reductions in expenditure would be
undesirable and unsustainable, however. In addition, the economic reform program
underway will continue to have negative fiscal repercussions because of its
effects on tax revenues. India's tax revenues as a share of GDP are slightly
higher than Lhose in countries at a similar level of development, however,
India's tax system is inefficient -- characterized hy a narrow base and by
extremely differentiated and often very high rates. In addition, tax exemptions
are numerous and further erode the already narrow base. The problems generated
by these tax policies are compounded by an inefficient tax administration and
pervasive tax evasion and create a large dependency on indirect taxes,
particularly on customs. During 1990-93 direct taxes (corporate and personal
income tax) accounted for about 25 percent of total tax collections, excises for
about 30 percent, and customs for the remaining 45 percent. Customs revenue
account for Rs 310 billion (3.9 percent of GDP) of the Central Government's tax
revenues of Rs. 667 billion (8.4 percent of GDP) budgeted for 1993-94. Tariff
reductions envisaged for the next two to three years as part of the Government's
trade reform program will thus imply major shortfalls in tax revenues. Likewise,
reducing further excessively high and distortionary excise rates will imply
revenue shortfalls beyond the 0.2 percent that reductions in peak excises have
cost in the 1993-94 budget. Thus, tax refonn is t.he key for reconciling the
Government's stabilization and structural reform objectives.   Through the
broadening of the tax base and improved resource mobilization, the Government
intends to reduce the fiscal deficit to 4 percent or less in 1994-95, with
further declines thereafter (see para. 3 of the Letter of Development Policy in
Annex 1).
12.       The  Tax  Reform  Committee's  final  report  of January  1993  has
recommended major changes in most of India's taxes.  These changes aim at
transforming India's tax system from one with high (and highly differentiated)
tax rates falling on a narrow base, into one with tax rates at moderate levels
falling on a broad base.   Regarding tariffs, the Tax Reform Committee has
recommended a tariff structure with a highest rate of 30 percent (currently at
85 percent) on intermediate goods, and 40-50 percent on consumer goods (para.
44). On excises, the Committee has recommended that they be replaced by a
nation-wide value-added tax (other recommendations of the Tax Reform Committee
are discussed in the May 1993 Country Economic Memorandum). The Government has
accepted the recommendations of the Tax Reform Committee and, to accelerate the
process of tax reform, has requested the National Institute of Public Finance and
Policy (a well-known Delhi research institution specializing in public finance)
to prepare the design of a possible value-added tax;.
13.       Balance of Payments Performance. Since June 1991, there have been two
important and pesitive developments in the balance of vayments.   First, the
instruments for managing the current account have become more price-based.
Licensing requirements for imports of capital and intermediate goods have been
virtually eliminated, and a foreign exchange. market has been established (para.
28). Thus, discretionary import controls or foreign exchange rationing can no
longer be relied upon for managing the current account. Fiscal and monetary
policies and the Government's borrowing abroad are now the primary instruments
for managing the balance of payments. Second, through improvements in both the
current and capital accounts, reserves increased from less than US$1 billion in
June 1991 to US$6.7 billion in March 1993 (Table 1).



Table 1: Key Macroecommiclndicators. 1990-1994
ACTUALS                          PROJECTED
1990-1             19U193
Fiscal Indicatots
Central Govenmment Deficit                                                              4.7
Revenues(Tax and non-tax)            11.5             12.3             11.8             12.1
Expenditure"                         19.9             18.S            17.5              16.8
of wbich intes                      4.1              4.5             4.7              4.9
defense                          3.0              2.7             2.5              2.5
subsidies                        2.3              2.0             1.8               1.1
capital sen                      4.1              3.3              3.0             3.4
Memo Item
Primary Deficit                       4.4              1.6             1.0             -0.1
Balnce of Payments (US$ bilion)
Merchandie Exports                    18.5            18.1             18.4             21.3
Mewchndise Impots                    25.2             19.7             22.3             24.7
of which fuel imports               6.0              5.4             6.1              6.8
Trade Balance                        -6.7             -1.6            -3.9             -3.4
Services and trars (net)             -1.0             -0.4            -1.1             -0.9
Cunent Account                        -7.7             50.0                            -4.3
in percentofGDP                     2.6              0.8             2.1              1.7
Memo hems
Resenes (end of perod) excluding gold
US$ bilion                          2.3              5.7             6.7              6.7
Moths of import                     1.1              3.5             3.6              3.3
Extnal debt (US$ billion)             69               71              76               80
Debt Se.-vice Ratio                  27.0             25.8             26.6             25.6
Excbange Rate (beginning of period)   17.3            20.0             25.9             31.4
eserve Money Growth                  14.9             19.8             8.1
h&ke (pointto point)                 11.7             12.9             6.5              6.0
GDP 2 rowth                           5.2              1.2             4.0              4.5
I/    Includes balan from the Oi Coordina  Committee.
2/    End of period.
14.         However,  India' a  balance  of  payments  situation  remains  delicate.
Export growth has yet to reach the high rates necessary for a lasting solution
to India's balance of payments problems; and, even with a significant reduction
in the current account deficit, the country's exceptional financing needs will
remain substantial over the next few years because of large repayment obligations
on the country's external debt (para. 65).
15.         After a relatively strong export performance in the second half of the
1980s, exports grew at negative real rates both in 1991-92 and 1992-93. In 1991-
92, this was the result of the collapse of exports to the former Sov.et Union,
and temporary emergency import controls. These controls were first imposed in
response to the 1990 developments in the Gulf and were made stricter in July
1991. They reduced imports, from US$25 billion in 1990-91 to an artificially and
unsustainably  low  US$20  billion  in  1991-92.   This  import  squeeze  severely
curtailed industrialists' and exporters' access to crucial imported inputs and
affected negatively both exports and GDP (para. 17) .  In 1992-93, exports to the



former Soviet tTnion continued to decline precipitously (from US$3 billion in
1989-90 to US$1.8 billion in 1991-92 and US$600 million in 1992-93) while social
unrest during December 1992-February 1993 disrupted what until then had been a
relatively strong recovery of exports (exports to general currency areas grew by
12 percent during March-November 1992). India's export prospects for 1993 -94 are
better, however. The reunification of the exchange rate has improved export
profitability (para. 29) while continuous reductions in tariffs a:e providing
industrialists incentives to reorient their production to external markets. In
addition, exports to the former Soviet Union have fallen from 16 percent of
India's total merchandise exports to below 4 percent and any further decline,
althougls not expected, would not be consequential. In fact, 'e January 1993
agreement with Russia reduced India's debt to Russia and st %.ulated that the
servicilAg of this debt would be made .n rupees. This, and bi.ateral agreements
with other republics of the former Soviet Union, have laid the basis for the
resumption of trade with a group of countries that had once been India's second
largest trading partner after the USA.
16.       As a result of the import squeeze,  the current account deficit
declined from about US$8 billion in 1990-91 to US$2 billion in 1991-92. Together
with exceptional financing from multilaterals and bilaterals, this helped
reserves to increase to US$5.7 billion in March 1992 and enabled the Government
in March-April 1992, to eliminate all the emergency import control measures and
virtually all licensing requirements on imports of intermediate and capital goods
(para. 33).   In response, imports grew to US$22 billion in 1992-93 and the
current account deficit more than doubled, to US$5 billion. Unanticipated one-
time capital inflows of about US$1 billion (from several foreign banks which had
to recapitalize their Indian branches weakened by several years of irregular
securities trading practices revealed by the April 1992 Bombay Stock Exchange
scandal) helped finance the increase in the current account in 1992-93. In the
future, however, it is evident that the current account deficit will have to
decline to more sustainable levels and reach the 1 percent of GDP envisioned by
the Government in 199S-96.   Retching this target is crucial to ensure that
India's creditworthiness (India still has a rating a little below investment
rating) in international financial markets is restored in the second half of the
1990s--when the scope for exceptional financing from the IMF and the Bank will
be limited and large repayment obligations to the IMF will fall due. Continued
fiscal adjustment and liberalization of trade policies, together with moderate
levels of government borrowing (in line with the amounts indicated in the
projections in Annex 5), should help bring about the necessary adjustments in the
current account.
17.       Inflation and Growth.   The sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit,
tight monetary policies, and, more recently, a good monsoon have all helped
inflation to decline sharply, from a peak of 1' percent in August 1991 to below
7 percent in recent months. However, growth has suffered in the first year of
the adjustment program when it declined from 5.2 percent in 1990-91 to 1.2
percent in 1991-92 as a result of poor performance of agriculture and
manufacturing.   Agricultural output declined by 1.4 percent as an irregular
monsoon reduced food grain production and manufacturing output declined by 2.4
percent as a result of major output declines in the capital goods industry (-13
percent)  and consumer durables  (also -13 percent).   Contractionary demand
management policies which depressed public and private investment are the main
reason for the decline in the production of capital goods. The production of
consumer goods declined mostly as a result of the import squeeze, which reduced
the availability of imported inputs, and the July 1991 devaluation (para. 27)
which increased their cost. Growth has recovered in 1992-93, however, and is
forecast to have reached nearly 4 percent.   This is mostly the result of a
recovery of agricultural production which offset sluggish manufacturing growth
of 3.5 percent. Assuming favorable monsoons, a better growth performance is
expected for 1993-94.



MAaT IIT.  TH       IIZ&T2ON OF INDwA'8 S  Wa .4RAL EMO
Aam nmTmal
A.   Backcround
18.       Since Independence, India has developed all the basic institutions of
a modern capitalist society, but has also given a central role to the state in
resource allocation.   Allowing private firms and markets to operate while
pursuing the goals of a planned growth process has been achieved through
extensive regulation of the private sector's use of resources.
19.       The building blocks of the regulatory system were essentially three.
Firstt since the nationalization of banks in the early 1970s, the public sector
has dominated the financial system and still accounts for 90 percent of the
commercial banksI deposits. This, together with other instruments of financial
regulation (see the May 1992 and May 1993 Economic Memoranda for a review of this
financial regulation), enabled the Government to exercise substantial control
over the allocation of the economy's financial savings.   Sacod  licensing
requirements made any significant private firm's investment decision or
acquisition of foreign technology conditional on prior Government approval.
Extensive price and distribution controls (which designated to industrial firms
prices as well as buyers) enabled the Government to determine returns on private
investment.   In addition, investment licenses were not granted, or granted
sparingly, in a number of important industrial areas reserved for the public
sector (such as capital goods, steel, non-ferrous metals, power, chemicals,
petrochemicals, coal). Finall , an extremely closed trade regime made virtually
any import conditional on gcvernment approvals - - rarely granted for anything the
domestic industrial sector could produce, regardless of cost or quality. This
three-pronged regulatory system enabled the Government to control private firms'
use of resources, and ensured that such use was for the priorities designated in
the Plan.
20.       This system was successful at mobilizing resources for the development
of a large and diversified industrial sector which, with a value-added of US$45
billion in the late 1980s, is the developing countries' fifth largest after
China, Brazil, Korea and Mexico. But the strategy also had serious shortcomings.
High protection led India's manufacturing sector to focus on the domestic market.
India accounted for 10 percent of OECD imports of manufactures from developing
countries in 1969, but only 4 percent in 1989. In addition, the absence of
domestic and external competition, and restrictions on imports of capital goods
and foreign technology have meant that India's industrial sector has extended
itself into production areas where it is not competitive and has not used the
best technology available. This has made industrial growth increasingly costly
in terms of resources and a shift in policies increasingly urgent.
21.       Throughout the 19808, important policy changes were introduced to
liberalize the investment regime ("broad-banding" allowed enterprises to choose
their product mix and activity levels within set parameters; price and
distribution controls were lifted for important industries such as cement and
textiles; licenses were granted more liberally in some sectors such as capital
goods, steel and power), as well as the trade regime (the exchange rate was set
at more realistic levels; export incentives neutralized some of the anti-export
bias of the trade regime; imports licenses were granted somewhat more liberally,
and an array of commodities was put on an Open General License list and allowed
to be imported without a license).
22.       These liberalizing measures hb.d a limited impact, however.  In 1390,
the import licensing regime was still extremely complex based on twenty-six lists
of commodities that classified all importables (Annex 2). Different approval
procedures applied for each list and there were 'O different types of licenses
depending on the specifics of each case. Imports of virtually any commodity
continued to depend on the Government granting a license, unless exempted. The
exempted category included imports on the Open General License (OGL) list, relief



supplies, and passenger baggage. Items that could be imported under the personal
baggara scheme included limited quantities of household appliances such as air-
conditioner units and washing machines, entertainment electronics such as
television sets, movie cameras and video cassettes, textile fabrics and other
consumer items.  OtherwiF3, imports of consumer goods were severely restricted.
In addition, as for all imports under OGL, consumer goods imported via the
baggage route had to be for the use of the importer (for "actual users") and
could not be sold in the domestic market.
23.       Xtems on the COL list accounted for less thart 1,000 of the about 5,000
codes of the Harmonized System of classification (HS) used in the Indian tariff
schedule. In addition, although items on the OGL list could theoretically be
imported free of licenses, in reality many OGL imports required a variety of
government clearances which meant that items that could be imported without any
form of restriction were actually very few.   Licensing restrictions were
particularly severe for imports of capital goods. Furthermore, tariffs continued
to be high and increased during the 1980s (from a 90 percent import-weighted
average for manufacturing products in 1980-81 to 120 percent in 1989-90).
24.       Regarding the investment regime, firms' investment continued to depend
on government licenses, and resulted in foreign investment levels well below
those achieved in other developing economies -- a mere US$200-400 million per
year in the recent past, as opposed to US$700, -1, 000 million in Indonesia, US$1-2
billion in Thailand and Brazil, and US$2-3 billion in China. Foreign investors
were further discouraged by the restrictions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act (FERA) of 1973 which prevented companies with more than 40 percent of foreign
equity, the so-called FERA companies, from borrowing funds or -raising deposits
in India, from taking over any business interest fror an Indis;  resident, from
acquiring or disposing of any physical assets (including land) within India, from
appointing technicians or managers without RBI clearance, and from using their
trade marks without RBI clearance. FERA and non-FERA companies alike could not
hire foreigners without RBI's permission. Indicative of the restrictiveness of
the foreign investment regime, as recently as early 1993, there were only So
firms in India with more than 40 percent of foreign equity.
25.       The actual dismantling of this restrictive trade and investment regime
only started when the new Government came to power in June 1991 (see Box 1 on the
Government's medium-term policy objectives regarding trade and investment
regulation).    Since then,  India's trade and investment  regime has been
liberalized in a continuous fashion, but a few dates are of particular
importance:
1991-92
*    July 24,  1991 when a revised austerity budget for 1991-92 was
presented to Parliament, tariffs were reduced, several measures to
make the import licensing regime more flexible were introduced, ant
a New Industrial Policy was announced;
*    February 29, 1992 when the 1992-93 budget was presented to Parliament,
tariffs were reduced further, the emergency controls on imports were
abolished, licensing requirements for imports of capital goods and
intermediates were reduced, and a Liberalized Exchange Rate Management
System was introduced, establishing a foreign exchange market;
1992-93
o    April  1,  1992  when  the annual  Export-Import  Policy  eliminated
virtually all licensing requirements for imports of intermediate and
capital goods;
*    October 10, 1992 when limited measures were taken to liberalize
imports of consumer goods;
e    January 8, 1993 when the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act was amended;



-8-
R9L  Th e EIh4 Plan p,n, The tLbersratiloan   dutilDepaio
Further Trade Policy Reforms
*Durg the Eighth Plan period. futr trde policy reforms ame needed to be caie  out so that the economy is bTr
ingrated wh Ihe fst of the world. Th key dbctives of these uforms should be two-fold: (i a fuher pnig of the pnegative
itsm of imports and expor  and () a gradua tedutionit boththe level and dispersion of taif rates. . . by the end of the iWb Plan
the neg ie st of impors hould contain only items which woul be banned for reasons such as environmen and safety. Any
prtectidon deemled neesr for dometic fidutysould baialy be given throuh the exchne rat and th taf.
'Along with the refdoms of the impon policy and the exchange rate gime, tde structure of our taiffs requies subsnt
rationalition. Bmadly, our objective should be to eliminate the existing distortions in the tariff sruct  and ofhect a subsantial
dctin tie tariffs by the end of dte Eighth Plan. TMe recent tar dutons though substa. stll leave us with taiff level on
nmufaotured items which are far too high. ft should be the objecdve of policy to move to a trade regime in which the average taff
level comes down to about 25 percent wthn a period of hee to four yeats.
"Rela=aions of forein invesmet policy are in the right diection. Yet, if India were tQ atact       foreign
-invea nand tam noy in an reasingly iatrdepe%dent word, th Govemmr'ent should onuou*oY iheprgessnis
ftot, compare our po les iion foeign Invesm    witht doe of the-oter developWigcountries ad ia ke swift dras  tm -if.
requind.. our strtey during t   ighth Plan siould -be one of relying less on exwtnl commercmia borrowings and more on freign
dir  invesmen for fici  the uentaccouttdefict . T.is would require a con      ousm watc on ourmfo  estepol
n ston bitives from-ur side...
'Wit the recent-policy hags,i industrial production subjet to licensin control has been reduced to abut 20peret
However, some aspects of the new- industil policy seem to be somewhat resuiive. For exame,  e conusthioof-  licesg
eiremns for bdustrie such as sugar and edible ails has no clear justfaon. Erially impor* trr   reasons as to
wh the production of coasrner duabs gsch a. motor carsrergatrs ad cosue electrnis shouldbe uj  to:Idutia
s. Durin te ighthPlan. t            re, teii a need tofurtaher shorfn the list of idues trqukin4 iu            Most
of the consumergoods inusts w         reuim ndust iallicnsing shouldbe delle        y indusrie ld            ,
- ulsives and hazadus chenlcal shouild be-in ate rsiced lis of industre requitn _nutra licen-g .:
*. e,, h pren, the prices of industra products suc:h asnarl gas, petroleum, petroleumpodcts  oal ectiiy, ferilizer,
sugar and varius non-ferrosmealds are being adinsed by th Governet A thorough reiwohhisfunasfthepriee
-conol needs te be carried out Wherever the pnduct conmed is k atinu    ytuadeb, te  oversmaiwentuld dontothe
prices.',''                                                                 '  ' '           ' '    "
-    .    - flidh  Five Year Pn 1992-97. New Delbi, July 1992.       -
e    February 27, 1993 when the l993-94 budget was presented to Parliament,
the exchange rate was reunified, tariffs were significantly reduced,
and additional measures were taken to liberalize imports of consumer
goods;
e    March 5, 1993 when the Government presented to Parliament a new
National Mineral Policy to open the mining sector to the private
sector, domestic and foreign, up to then reserved to the public
sector;
1993-94
•    April 1, 1993 when the annual Export-Import Policy removed export
controls on important coimmodities and took some additional limited
measures to liberalize imports of consumer goods; and
*    April 14, 1993 when licensing requirements were eliminated for 3
important sectors (leather, automobiles, and household appliances).



The sections below assess how these measures have changed the different elements
of India's external sector and investment regime.
B.   The Liberalization of India's Exchange Rate and External Payments ReQime
26.       Until  June  1991,  the value  of the  Indian  rupee was  adjusted
periodically by the Reserve Bank of India (RP3I). This crawling peg accelerated
in the mid-1980s when the Government made rapid export growth an important
element of its development strategy.  Thus, from 1985 to 1990, the value of the
rupee declined from Rs 13.4/SDR (annual average) to Rs 25.7/SDR in 1990, i.e.,
a 92 percent nominal devaluation against a cumulative domestic inflation of 43
percent and international inflation (measured in US$) of 46 percent during that
period.
27.       Confronted with accelerated capital outflows and an external payments
crisis, the Government devalued the rupee shortly after coming to power (July
1991) from Rs 21.2/US$ to Rs. 25.8/US$, a 22 percent devaluation in terms of Rs
per US$. At the same time, the Government announced its intention to maintain
the exchange rate stable in order to restore confidence. Combined with the tight
financial policies pursued since July 1991, this devaluation achieved the
immediate objective of stopping capital outflows and the run on reserves.
28.       Since then, two major changes have been introduced in the exchange
rate regime. On February 29, 1992, the Government eliminated all the foreign
exchange controls introduced to cope with the foreign exchange crisis,
significantly reduced licensing requirements on imports of capital goods and
intermediates, and introduced the Liberalized Exchange Rate Management System
(LERMS) establishing a foreign exchange market. This was effectively a dual
exchange rate system under which foreign exchange at the official exchange rate
of Rs 25.8/US$ was provided for imports authorized by the Department of Economic
Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, mostly for life-saving drugs, crude oil,
diesel, kerosene and fertilizers. Foreign exchange for all other imports was
sold in a newly established interbank market for foreign exchange, at the market
rate. Forty percent of current account receipts from both exports and invisible
transactions were required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate. The
remaining 60 percent could be sold at the free market rate.   All capital
transactions, including interest payments on external debt but excluding grants
and IMF transactions, were effected at the free market rate. This system was
thus equivalent to a float coupled with an export tax -- the level of the tax
being determined by the difference between the official and the market rate --
the proceeds of which subsidized designated imports. When it introduced the
LERMS, the Government also announced that the exchange rate would be unified
gradually over a two-to-three year period.
29.       The Government reunified the exchange rate much faster than expected,
however.  The LERMS proved highly successful in that while the removal of import
licensing restrictions and foreign exchange controls did lead to an increase in
imports, this increase did not create unmanageable pressures on the country's
balance of payments, nor did it weaken the currency.   Since the LERMS was
introduced, the Rupee has been relatively stable in the Rs 30-32/US$ range.
These results led the Government to reunify the exchange rate ahead of schedule,
on February 27, 1993 when the 1993-94 budget was presented to Parliament. Since
then, the rupee has not only continued to remain stable, but the REI has had to
intervene to prevent an appreciation of the rupee. As a result, foreign exchange
reserves increased to close to US$7 billion in April 1993 (over 3 months of
imports). For exporters, the reunification of the exchange rate is tantamount
to a 7 percent devaluation. It has no impact on importers (except for those
importing petroleum products and fertilizer) since they already had to meet all
of their foreign exchange requirements through the market.
30.       With the reunification of the exchange rate, India has now moved to
a floating exchange rate system, with all the permitted current and capital
foreign exchange transactions taking place at the rate determined in the inter-
bank market.   All surrendering requirements have been abolished.   Foreign



- 10 -
exchange dealers are free to maintain balances in convertible currencies both
domestically and abroad, and deal spot and forward in all major currencies.
Except for some services such as purchase of insurance abroad and some imports
still subject to licensing restrictions (para. 3S), all current account
transactions are permitted and do not require government approval. Reflecting
the fact that India's capital account is still closed, most capital account
transactions continue to require prior government approval. The Government has
indicated that, barring exceptional circumstances, it did not intend to intervene
in the foreign exchange market to influence the long-term evolution of the
exchange rate.   Its interventions would mostly be for purchases of foreign
exchange required to maintain reserves at the minimum of about three to four
months worth of imports.
C.   The Liberalization of India's Trade Regime
31.       Since July 1991, the Government's approach to trade liberalization has
been to address the most important distortions first. On the import side, by
order of importance, these were three. Firstly, import licensing requirements
on all capital goods and most intermediates severely distorted industrial firms'
choice of technology, increased production costs, lowered quality standards, and
reduced competitiveness.   Secondly, high tariffs on both capital goods and
intermediates accentuated the costs imposed by import licensing restrictions.
Thirdly, import licensing restrictions and high tariffs on consumer goods
penalized domestic consumers and protected the domestic goods industry from
external competition.   On the export side, the most important distortions
consisted of controls over exports of numerous commodities, and exporters'
inadequate access to inputs at international prices and foreign exchange.
Reducing Licensing Restrictions on Imnorts
32.       On  the  import side,  the Government  reform measures  have been
concentrated on rapidly removing licensing restrictions and reducing tariffs on
imports of capital goods and intermediates--an essential first step to increase
the efficiency of India's industrial sector.   Since July 1991, licensing
restrictions (announced in the annual Export-Import Policy issued by the Ministry
of Commerce every year on March 31) have been gradually relaxed both on imports
and exports, and tariffs (typically introduced in the annual budgets presented
to Parliament every year during the month of February for the fiscal year
starting on April 1) have been gradually reduced.
33.       Licensing restrictions on imports were reduced in two phases.  First,
during July-December 1991, several items were shifted from more restrictive to
less restrictive lists. The second phase was implemented during March-April
1992, when the Government essentially dismantled the import licensing regime that
had governed India's imports during several decades by allowing virtually all
capital goods and intermediates to be imported without a license, and
consolidating the 26 lists into one simple negative list of imports still subject
to licensing.
34.       After these measures, remaining import restrictions apply to: (i) a
small numbe- of intermediates and all consumer goods, which can only be imported
if granted a license; and (ii) eight "canalized" items, that is, goods that can
only be imported by state trading agencies, (petroleum and petroleum products,
fertilizer) down from 53 before July 1991.
35.       Intermediate and capital goods still requiring a license to be
imported consist of a few manufacturing items (such as chemicals whose import is
restricted because of environmental considerations, and ships, aircraft, and
passenger cars) which account for about 7 percent of manufacturing production and
about 300 positions of the 5,000 RS positions. Consumer goods account for 37
percent of manufacturing production, most of agricultural production, and about
1,500 HS positions (300 positions for consumer goods of agricultural origin, and
1,200 for consumer goods of manufacturing origin, Table 3).



- 11 -
36.       The bulk of canalized imports consists of petroleum and fertilizer.
Liberalizing their import requires major simultaneous changes in the complex
pricing system for petroleum and petroleum products, and the pricing,
distribution and subsidization of fertilizer. This is expected to come about as
a natural consequence of the elimination of the dual exchange rate system which
had provided an implicit subsidy to imports of petroleum and petroleum products
and the fact that the 1993-94 budget includes no provision to compensate the
canalizing agencies for the loss of tkis subsidy.   Reforming the pricing,
distribution and subsidization of fertilizer essentially requires the elimination
of the subsidy on urea, which is expected to take place as the fiscal adjustment
process progresses.
37.       Licensing requirements for imports of consumer goods thus remain
India's most serious non-tariff restriction on imports.  Imported consumer goods
have been severely restricted in India for the last forty years and licenses to
import consumer goods have been granted very sparingly. Imports of (non-food)
consumer goods in 1990-91 amounted to only US$650 million: US$280 million of
baggage imports, US$220 million of audio video and photographic and
cinematographic equipment, US$110 million of textiles and garments, and US$40
million of watches and sports goods. This is equivalent to only 2.5 percent of
India's imports during 1990-91, while in developing countries that have lifted
restrictions on imports of consumer goods, such imports typically account for a
share of imports in the 5-15 percent range.
38.       While some liberalization steps have been taken to liberalize imports
of consumer goods, they have been relatively unsuccessful. In October 1992, the
Government established a window to grant some categories of exporters (those with
annual average net foreign exchange earnings of more than Rs 60 million, that is,
about US$2 million), freely tradeable Special Import Licenses (SILs) that can be
used to import consumer goods specified in a positive list. The value of SILs
granted to exporters increased with their net foreign exchange earnings, from 5
percent minimum to 10 percent maximum. The SIL scheme was simplified in March
1993 when the new Export-Import Policy was announced. The new policy granted
exporters exporting annually more than f.o.b. Rs 100 million (about US$3 million)
SILs for an amount varying from 2 to 4 percent of gross export earnings,
depending on the exporters' annual average export earnings. The liberalization
of imports of consumer goods via SILs has several advantages. In particular, it
makes imports of consumer goods dependent on the flow of exports and thus avoids
the balance of payments problems that have been common in many developing
countries that have liberalized imports of consumer goods.  In addition, it
replaces discretionary licensing by a price-based rationing mechanism.   The
results of the first months of operation of the scheme in 1992-93 have been
disappointing,  however.    While  exporters  were  entitled  to  claim  SILs
retroactively on the value of their previous year's exports, largely because of
the low premium (about 7 percent) at which SILs have been traded in the market,
SILs claimed amounted to only US$300 million--well below the US$400 million that
had been expected. This low premium reflects the high tariffs on imports of
consumer goods (about 70 percent import-weighted average, see Table 3) and the
restrictiveness of the positive list.
39.       Additional steps to liberalize imports of consumer goods were taken
in February 1993 when the Government reduced from 255 percent to 150 percent
tariffs on consumer goods imported as baggage and abolished restrictions on the
resale of these imports. Imports of consumer goods via the baggage route in the
first two months of operation of the scheme have remained well below what had
been anticipated, however, a clear indication that the 150 percent tariff is too
high. This raises potential fiscal problems since Rs 15 billion (0.2 percent of
GDP) of tax revenues are expected from customs revenues on baggage imports in
1993-94.
40.       Because imports of capital goods and intermediates have already been
liberalized and their tariffs reduced, remaining restrictions on imports of
consumer goods have increased effective protection and could potentially attract
new investment into consumer goods industries that are not internationally



- 12 -
competitive.  The extent of such investment is likely to be limited for two
reasons, however. First, India's large domestic market, industrial deregulation
measures (para. 55), and producers' access to foreign inputs and technology
creates the conditions necessary for vigorous domestic competition- -which should
bring domestically produced consumer goods prices and quality standards at
internationally comparable levels. This is already the case for a number of
consumer goods that are exported--such as some consumer durables, garments,
leather products, and processed food, for which protection is now redundant.
Second, the Government has given clear indications that the current protection
afforded to the domestic goods industry was temporary and that licensing
restrictions on imports of consumer goods would not be extended beyond the end
of the Eighth Plan period (Box 1). The steps to liberalize imports of consumer
goods discussed above are an additional indication that existing restrictions are
temporary. Therefore, investors are unlikely to invest in the production of
consumer goods that cannot withstand international competition. The Government
is fully aware, however, that further measures to liberalize imports of consumer
goods are critical to maintain the credibility of its reform program and ensure
that investors do not allocate resources in industries which cannot compete with
imports.
41.       However,  the elimination of licensing restrictions on imports of
consumer goods is a complex issue. India has thus far maintained an impeccable
record in servicing its external debt, and all political parties are intent on
maintaining this record. Less than two years after India was on the verge of
defaulting on external debt, the Government would find it difficult to mobilize
political support for a measure that could lead to a sharp increase in import
demand, which would in turn require additional exceptional financing or an
unpopular further depreciation of the currency. In addition, the quasi-ban on
imports of consumer goods has been a symbol of the country's determination to
reach self-reliance and the mere announcement of the Government's decision to
consider liberalizing imports of consumer goods has already raised strong
political opposition. There is also a fear that the liberalization of imports
of consumer goods would lead to an increase in conspicuous consumption and result
in social tensions. The Government has indicated, however, that it intended to
meet the Eighth Plan objective of a trade regime free of licensing restrictions,
and that further measures to liberalize imports of consumer goods would be taken
next year.
Reducina Tariffs
42.       In June 1991, India's tariffs were among the highest in the developing
world. In addition, unlike many developing countries, these tariffs were not
significantly diluted by exemptions- -India also had the highest collection rates
in the world (see Table 2). Thus, besides the industrial restructuring issues
typically associated with tariff reductions, India has also had to face the
additional fiscal problems that tariff reductions bring about in the midst of a
major fiscal adjustment process. The effect of the tariff reductions introduced
over the last two years has already been significant and collection rates (custom
revenues as a share of imports) declined from 42 percent in 1990-91, to 38
percent in 1991-92, 34 percent in 1992-93, and to around 30 percent expected in
1993-94. As indicated earlier, expenditure cuts have thus far offset the fiscal
cost of tariff reductions and enabled the fiscal deficit to decline while tariffs
were being reduced. Further tariff reductions require, however, the development
of alternative sources of revenues and the reform of the tax system.
43.       Each of this Government's three budgets (July 1991, February 1992, and
February 1993) introduced tariff reductions. The maximum tariff rate was reduced
from 350 percent in 1990-91, to 150 percent in 1991-92, 110 percent in 1992-93,
and 85 percent in 1993-94. To avoid postponement of investment by investors
awaiting further price reductions, tariffs on some type of machinery have been
reduced more rapidly than for intermediates.   These changes reduced import-
weighted tariffs from 87 percent in 1990-91 to 47 percent in 1993-94 and have
also significantly reduced the dispersion of tariff rates (Tables 3 and 4). In
1990-91, tariffs for 87 percent of the 5,000 HS positions were higher than 85



- 13 -
percent, while this has now been reduced to 0.3 percent, mostly for alcoholic
beverages and luxury items.
44.       The Government has indicated that the process of tariff reduction will
continue to reach, by March 1995 or March 1996 at the latest, the tariff schedule
recommended by the Tax Reform Committee (a 40-50 percent maximum tariff rate for
consumer goods except for a few luxury items, 30 percent for intermediates and
instruments, 20 percent for capital goods, and a 5-10 percent minimum tariff) and
the Eighth Plan objective of a trade regime free of licensing restrictions with
an import-weighted average tariff of 25 percent. Once these recommendations are
implementecA, India's tariffs would have declined to levels close to those in
other developing countries in a relatively short period of 4-5 years. This would
be a remarkable achievement considering that India began to reduce tariffs much
later than other developing countries and started from a much higher level.
Table 2: Tariffs and Collection Rates - International Comparisons
(in percent)
Maximum Tariff      Average Tariff    Collection Rate
India                       110 (1992)           64 (1992)            34 (1992)
400 (1990)           87 (1990)           42 (1990)
Argentina                    50 (1989)                n.a.             8 (1989)
115 (1987)                n.a.           19 (1987)
Brazil                       35 (1993)          14 (1993)*                 n.a.
105 (1990)          32 (1990)*            7 (1990)
Indonesia                    60 (1991)           10 (1990)             5 (1989)
60 (1988)           15 (1988)            5 (1988)
225 (1984)           22 (1984)            4 (1984)
Korea                        30 (1985)            9 (1992)             6 (1990)
Mexico                       20 (1991)           12 (1991)                 n.a.
20 (1990)           10 (1990)            S (1990)
Philippines                  50 (1992)           17 (1992)            10 (1992)
50 (1985)           28 (1985)           18 (1985)
Thailand                     60 (1985)           19 (1985)            13 (1985)
100 (1981)          31 (1981)*           11 (1981)
Turkey                       50 (1989)           17 (1989)            13 (1989)
Source:   Bank reports and Bank staff estimates.
Note:     The average tariff refers to the import-weighted tariff, except
when indicated by *, when it is the arithmetic average.
ExDort Develonment
45.       The Government sees fast export growth as the key for restoring
India's creditworthiness in the second half of the 1990s and has made export
development a central element of its policy agenda.   This explains  the
accelerated reform of the foreign exchange regime highlighted earlier, the
importance given to tariff reductions as a way to increase the export orientation
of the economy, as well as further relaxation of export controls. In addition,
the Government has taken several steps to improve the administration of export
promotion schemes, and remove foreign exchange controls that restricted
exporters' activities.



- 14 _
Table 3:  Tariff Structure. 1990-94
(in percent)
Mean                 Import Weighted Average    No. of
l______ ______.______  ________ ._____    _                     Items
1990-91    1992-93   1993-94   1190-91  1992-93   1993-94
Whole Economy       128 (41)   94 (34)   71 (30)    87          64        47      5029
Agricultural
Products           106 (48)   59 (49)   47 (39)    70          30        25       293
Consumer Goods      142 (33)   92 (42)   71 (34)   164         144        94      1187
Baggage        255  (0)  255  (0)  1S0  (0)   255         255       255         1
Agro-based    136 (35)   65 (55)   52 (48)   129           99        70       405
Others         144 (32)  105 (21)   81 (14)   106          79        73       781
Intermediates       133 (42)  104 (25)   79 (25)   117          55        42      2481
Capital goods       109 (32)   86 (26)   60 (24)    97          76        49      1068
Sxrs: Ana= 3.
NM: St devan ar In paretee.
Table 4:  FreouenlC_Distribution of Tariffs. 1990-94
Rate of           Es Positions, 1990-91                  RS Positions, 1993-94
!,   Duty                          Percent of                              Percent of
NUmber     Percent         Imports       Number    Percent        Imports
0               98           1.9            10.2        206           4.1           16.6
0-30            17           0.3             1.6        303           6.0            5.6
30-50           50           1.0            16.0        641          12.7           36.9
50-60           25           0.5             2.5       3853           2.0            1.2
60-85          479            9.5           20.2          9          74.8           36.3
85-110        1089          21.7            18.1          1           0.0            0.0
110-150       2905          57.8            21.7          4           0.1            3.4
150-400        359           7.1             9.7         12           0.2            0.0
TOTAL        5,029          100.0          100.0       S,029        100.0          100.0
Soun:e Minis%y of Finance, MlnsaJ of Commee ad Bak Saff EMas.
46.       Progress in Reducing Ex,omrt Controls.  Export controls have been in
place in India since Independence mostly to enable the Government to allocate
domestic production to priority users--consumers in the case of food items such
as common rice or lentils; the metallurgical industry in the case of mining
products; and the industry at large in the case of raw materials such as cotton.
As part of the liberalization measures taken in the 1980s, the Government started
in 1988-89 to reduce the number of products subject to controls, but in 1990-91,
there were 439 items whose exports were still restricted--see Table S.



- 15 -
47.       A major reduction in export controls was undertaken in the March 1992
Export-Import Policy when the number of items under export restrictions was
reduced by 143, from 439 to 296. Further reductions in the number of items
subject to export controls were introduced with the March 1993 Sxport-Import
Policy when the number of restricted items was reduced to 215 (Table 5). In the
process, controls over a number of items with significant export potential (such
as silk and its by-products and several metals and minerals such as iron and pig
iron), have been lifted.
Table 5: Number of Items Subiect to Export Controls. 1990-93
March 30. 1990    March 31. 1292      March 31. 1993
Security related                  0                  0                  10
Environment related              11                 10                  12
Religion related                  2                  2                   2
Agriculture                     213                160                 128
Minerals & Metals               112                 86                  44
Chemicals                        41                 11                   4
other Manufactures               51                 18                   6
others                            9                  9                   9
TOTAL                           439                296                 215
Source: Ministry of Commerce
48.       Of the 215 items which remain on the negative export list, 16 are
prohibited, 109 licensed, 34 canalized and 56 subject to specified terms and
conditions. The 16 items are prohibited on justifiable environmental, religious
or security grounds. Of the 56 items subject to terms and conditions, half of
them are either subject to a registration requirement, which in its present
administration is not restrictive, or are restricted for justifiable reasons such
as security or environment (for example 8 chemical items are restricted to comply
with the Montreal Protocol).   Therefore,  of the 215 items which remain
restricted, around 170 carry restrictions not justified on either environmental,
religious or security grounds or are subject to actual controls.
49.       While the process of reducing export controls should continue with
emphasis on economically significant commodities such as cotton, the recent
reforms have already lifted restrictions on virtually all manufacturing items,
and most metals and minerals. In addition, exports of important agricultural
commodities such as tea, coffee, and all spices except pepper, are now free of
controls.   Finally, the effects of the existing controls on exports varies
significantly from commodity to commodity and they are not significant in all
cases.  For example, they have no effect in the case of basmati rice whose
exports are subject to a minimum price. In the last five years, this minimum
export price has been set well below the average price at which exports have been
taking place with the result that it has not imposed a constraint on exports.
In the case of edible oils and oilseeds (which account for 26 of the 215
restricted items), India is a high cost producer and domestic prices have been
historically well above their international equivalent. Thus, these commodities
would not be exported even if export controls were lifted. In the case of common
rice, a quantitative ceiling was eliminated in April 1992 and the minimum export
price has been set at a level in line with that of Thailand's 5 percent broken
rice. While exports have been taking place, these were at a price close to the
minimum export price, suggesting that lower quality rice was prevented from being
exported. The international market for low quality rice (more than 5 percent
broken) is small, however, and foregone export revenues are likely to be also
amall.   In the case of cotton,  however,  where the export potential  is



- 16 -
significant, the tax implicit in export restrictions is high.. In recent years,
the international price of long staple cotton (in which India has a comparative
advantage) has been 70-150 percent higher than the domestic equivalent.
50.       The Government is aware that further steps are necessary to reduce
remaining export controls. In a statement to Parliament on the changes in the
Export-Import Policy of March 31, 1993, the Ministry of Commerce highlighted that
it is anomalous that while the need to increase India's exports is urgent, there
is still a long list of exports subject to export controls. In addition, the
Ministry of Agriculture has recently requested that all export restrictions on
cotton be removed since the current quota system mostly benefits state trading
agencies at the cost of reduced employment and income opportunities to the
farmers.  In 1992-93, 92 percent of the quota was assigned to state trading
agencies, with the Cotton Corporation of India receiving the largest share (50
percent). The Government has indicated that controls on exports of agricultural
products will be reduced further nari passu with the implementation of the
Government's broader program of agricultural reform.
51.       Exnort Promotion.  The Government has developed a number of schemes
to provide free-trade status to exporters: the Duty Exemption Scheme (whereby
exporters can import raw materials and intermediate goods without paying duty),
the Duty Drawback Scheme, the export processing zones, and the 100 percent Export
Oriented Units. Of these, the Duty Drawback and the Duty Exemption Schemes are
by far the most important in that they affect the universe of exportecs (only 5
percent of India's exports originate in Export Processing Zones and Export-
Oriented Units).   Both have long suffered from cumbersome administrative
procedures and, in the case of the Duty Drawback Scheme, long delays in
reimbursing exporters for taxes already paid. In addition, the procedures of the
scheme are cumbersome so that indirect exporters are deterred from availing
themselves of its benefits and none of these schemes reimburses exporters for all
of the indirect taxes on inputs.  Finally, the duty-free import schemes for
exporters do riot extend to imports of capital goods.
52.       While the Government has taken steps to simplify the administration
of the Duty Exemption Scheme in August 1991, there is an urgent need to
accelerate reimbursements under the Duty Drawback Scheme, expand the coverage of
taxes to be exempted, and improve procedures to extend the benefits of the duty-
free schemes to indirect exporters and capital goods imports. During the course
of the year, the Government is expected to: (i) prepare a plan to allow direct
and indirect exporters rapid access to the benefits of the Duty Exemption Scheme,
together with a realistically phased implementation program for this plan; (ii)
prepare a plan to reform the Duty Drawback Scheme to allow direct and indirect
exporters to be reimbursed rapidly; and (iii) extend the benefits of the Duty
Exemption Scheme to include capital goods imports. The Bank has been involved
in sharing with the Government the lessons from the experience of other
developing countries which have developed successful promotion schemes.
Discussions on how to reform India's export promotion schemes will continue
during the course of this year.
53.       Foreicmn Exchange Controls on Exnorters' Activities.  Several of the
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) of 1973 severely
restricted exporters' activities (para. 24). In particular, they prevented goods
from being taken out of the country on rental, lease, hire, or any other
arrangement not amounting to disposal--a restriction that made it difficult for
exporters to send samples abroad, and for civil engineering firms to carry out
contracts in foreign countries. FERA also restricted holdings of real property
outside India and inhibited exporters' presence in foreign markets. In addition,
travel allowances for exporters were exceedingly low, unrealistically so for any
business-related travel.
54.       All these restrictions have been gradually relaxed over the last year
through several RBI circulars and, in January 1993, through a Presidential
Ordinance which amended the FERA Act. These FERA amendments were subsequently
approved by Parliament in April 1993. In addition, since March 1992, exporters



- 17 -
are allowed to maintain 15 percent of their export proceeds in a foreign currency
account in banks in India, which can be used without RBI approval for any of 27
purposes enumerated in an RBI circular, such as foreign advertising or funds for
promotion travel. The RBI has also increased allowances for exporters' business
trips to levels which exporters now consider more adequate and is considering
freeing their foreign currency accounts to be used for any current account
transaction.
D.   The Liberalization of India's Investment Regime
55.       The new Government has taken a number of important steps to liberalize
domestic and foreign investment. First, in July 1991, a New Industrial Policy
(NIP): ti) reduced the number of sectors reserved exclusively for public sector
investment from seventeen to eight (coal, oil, mining of ferrous metals, mining
of non-ferrous metals, mining of atomic minerals, defence equipment and
ammunition, atomic energy, railway transport, Annex I of the NIP); (ii) abolished
the requirement for prior government approval for domestic investments except for
those in eighteen "sensitive" industries specified on a negative list (Annex II
of the NIP) which account for about 20 percent of manufacturing value added; and
(iii) granted automatic approval for new foreign investments up to 51 percent of
equity and foreign technology agreements in 34 sectors (accounting for close to
50 percent of value added in manufacturing) designated on a positive list (Annex
III of the NIP).
56.       Since the NIP came into effect, the RBI has been put in charge of
reviewing foreign investment proposals for the sectors for which automatic
approval is granted and ensuring that they conform to the conditions set out in
the NIP.    Since  September  1991,  the RBI has  approved over  1,300  such
applications, each within 15 days of application. Foreign investment in sectors
not included in Annex III of the NIP or exceeding the 51 percent foreign equity
limit must be approved on a case-by-case basis by the Foreign Investment
Promotion Board (FIPB), which has been granting its approval liberally and which,
for proposals up to US$100 million, delegates its authority to the Secretariat
of Industrial Approvals (SIA).  In addition, during the course of 1992, the
Government has allowed foreigners to invest in the power sector up to 100 percent
of equity. These measures have led foreign investment (on a commitment basis)
to increase to over US$2 billion in the eighteen month period since July 1991
(Table 6), nearly six times the accumulated amount of the previous three years.
While these are intentions to invest and there is no guarantee that they will
materialize, the magnitude of the increase is indicative that the opening up ot
the foreign investment regime is substantial, has generated a positive responie.
and could result in significant actual foreign investment inflows.
57.       The foreign investment regime was liberalized further in January 1993
when FERA was amended. As indicated earlier, prior to such amendment, several
of its provisions severely restricted -.ne activities of foreign investors. The
January 1993 amendment of the FERA Act has removed all the restrictions indicated
in para. 24 and eliminated most of the past discriminatory treatment of companies
with foreign equity (FERA companies). Except for restrictions on acquisition by
FERA companies of enterprises in the agriculture and plantation sectors, FERA
companies (regardless of the proportion of foreign equity participation) are now
treated at a par with domestic investors, and are permitted to remit dividends
abroad without limitations or restrictions. The restrictions still remaining in
the FERA Act mainly reflect the fact that India's capital account is still not
open and have to do with controls of capital movements (para. 30).
58.       Two additional steps to liberalize the investment regime were taken
in recent months. The first was in early March 1993, when the Government tabled
in Parliament a new National Mineral Policy which entails removal from Annex I
of the NIP all mining products (except hydrocarbon, uranium and coal) reserved
for exclusive exploitation by the public sector. The proposal would open mining
(except for hydrocarbon, uranium and coal) to the private sector for the first
time in decades. Foreign equity participation up to 50 percent would be allowed,
with majority ownership to be allowed on a case by case basis. Amendments to the



- 18 -
applicable laws to implement the new National Mineral Policy are being processed
for legislative approval. Once these amendments are approved, the only sectors
of the economy for which there will still be restrictions on domestic private
sector entry are defense, railways, hydrocarbon, coal, uranium, and atomic
energy.  The second was on April 14, 1993 when three important sectors were
deleted from Annex II of the NIP: leather, motor cars and "white goods", that
is, all household appliances such as washing machines and refrigerators.
59.       These reforms have dismantled the previous regime of investment
control.   On the domestic front, less than 15 percent of value added in
manufacturing, mostly in agro-industry, still remains subject to licensing
requirements.    Licensing restrictions on agro-industries are expected to be
gradually removed as part of the Government's program of agricultural reform.
On the external front, India has shifted from a policy regime which deterred
foreign investment to one which encourages it. A recent Government commissioned
report by independent international consultants compared India' s foreign
investment regime with that prevailing in Asian countries which have been
successful in attracting foreign investment (China, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Singapore, Taiwan, and Thailand). The report concluded that India now compares
well with the majority of these countries in terms of openness to foreign
investment. It noted that India's foreign investment regime is less liberal than
those in Taiwan, China; Thailand; and Indonesia which permit majority foreign
ownership in the majority of industrial sectors. However, India's automatic
approval process Ls more liberal than that of the other Asian countries reviewe-1
in the study and covers investment in sectors that generate over 40 percent cf
value added in manufacturing. Besides this, India differentiates itself from
these other Asian countries in that the new mining policy allows foreign
investment in the mining sector up to 50 percent of equity with higher
participation being allowed on a case-by-case basis, while mining is reserved to
domestic investors in all countries reviewed in the report. In addition, after
the FMRA amendment of January 1993, companies with foreign equity investment of
any size are treated essentially at a par with domestic investors--while in
several of the countries reviewed restrictions remain, for example regarding
borrowing in domestic markets. This implies that domestic companies with foreign
equity participation (majority or minority) now can invest in any sector (except
plantation and agriculture) open to domestic companies if they are able to
mobilize domestic financing.
60.       The  Government-commissioned  report  comparing  India's  foreign
investment regime with that of other Asian countries also concluded that India's
change in policies is not fully reflected in operational procedures and the
attitude of Government personnel responsible for implementing the policy. In
particular, tne report indicated that India has many more approval and clearance
requirements at the level of administrative ministries and state governments than
most countries in the region. In response to this problem, in presenting the
1993-94 budget to Parliament on February 27, 1993, the Finance Minister announced
that _he Government would constitute a special review group in each Ministry to
re-examine existing laws and procedures and identify administrative and
procedural changes needed in the light of the new policies.
61.       A study conducted by FIAS, with a different set of coimparator
countries (besides China and Indonesia, it included Mexico, Turkey, and Poland)
reaches broadly similar conclusions and indicates that while India is less open
to foreign investment than the comparator countries, this does not take into
account the emerging experience with the approval procedure through the FIPB--
which is building a reputation for swift and liberal investment approvals.
However, the FlAI report also noted that corporate tax rates in India were the
highest among comparator countries, that labor legislation did not provide
sufficient flexibility to firms in fixing employment level, and that deficiencies
in the provision of infrastructure were a serious constraint. The Government is
aware of these problems. The Tax Reform Committee has already recommended that
corporate tax rates be reduced, and the Government is expected to implement this
recommendation as soon as the fiscal situation permits. Legislation clealing with
labor issues has already been prepared and is being discussed with Unions and



- 19 -
industrialists. Addressing India's infrastructure problems will require time,
however, and that the reform process underway be extended to infrastructure.
Table 6: Foreign Collaboration ADnrovals - Pre- and Post- July 1991 Reform
August 1990-    August 1991-    August 1992-
July 1991        July 1992      February 1993
1.   Number of Foreign
Collabora-i.ion
approvals by:
i)   SIA                         524              879              183
ii)  RBI                                          638              405
iii) FTPB                          -               20              233
TOTAL                       524             1537              821
2.   Involving foreign
equity:
i)   SIA                         151              360               51
ii)  RBI                           -              189              139
iii) FIPB                          -               20              232
TOTAL                       151              569              422
3.  Total amount of
foreign equity
involved
(UVS million)
i)   SIA                          84              204              246
ii)  RBI                           -              245              116
iii) FIPB                          -              347            1,303
TOTAL                        84              796            1,665
Source:   Ministry of Industry
PART IV. THE PROPO8ED ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan Obiectives and Link with the Bank's Country Assistance Strateo
62.       Discussions with the authorities on a policy-based loan in support of
the liberalization of India's external sector and investment regime started in
June 1992, shortly after the second tranche review of the December 1991 SAL. The
focus of the SAL had been support of policies liberalizing the industrial and
trade regimes, reforming the financial sector, and restructuring public
enterprises. The SAL objectives were generally fully met in all of these four
reform areas and its second and last tranche was released in June 1992. In fact,
the removal of virtually all licensing restrictions on imports of intermediates
and capital goods, and the introduction of a free foreign exchange market in
March 1992 meant that the SAL targets were significantly exceeded.
63.       As indicated in the CAS discussed by the Board in December 1992, the
Bank's first priority in India has been to support the reform process which has
been underway since July 1991, inter alia, through adjustment lending supporting
key structural reform measures.   The CAS also indicated that a policy-based
operation in support of India's efforts to liberalize the external sector would
be presented to the Board during this fiscal year.



- 20 -
Table 7: Summarv of Reormns Sj orb d by tie pronosed Oneraton
.rea          .        ; * .-s bibxJu t - aesi befo u  1991  -.eeoVnIs    1     mped during !uy1991.    Refom  Impletne   uig Octobe 1992-
I_._. _:. _-_._., _.   - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                            Acpler~19Q1 -993
Exdag Raze          The RBI fixed the exchange rae and adjusted it  The LERMS established a fee nterbank        Sil  Mrch 1993. th exdage r  ba been
and Exnal           p er y.                                         mat  forelg fxcha    but 40 paece           unified. all fori  exchag trasco  take
Paymens Reim                                                        of or   accon proceeid had to be          ploc at the wa*e dmined rae. Foreign
aureded    to the RBI at th offiniW        exchage dealer are free to mantain baance
exchawe rate. The Rti degtd t             in converible currenmces, both domestcly
foreign exchange dealer authr  to se       and abroad, and deal spt or forward.
fog exchange ftor permid trmsaco
without prior RB approval.
Lcelnsg             Comptex import Dleing regimes onsitinS of       In Mach-Apl 1992M. eico  o Impor           reely tradable SlLs for Impor   f coasumer
Restuict    on      pesive licening requirements and 26 differen    of capital and ntmeedlptb goods wer        good on a specif  list were ntoducd in
Imps                Imor procedutes.                                diinated.                                  October 99.
Sinc Mach 1993. restrIow  on the resalo of
consumer  oos mptoed as baggag hae
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   been   abolished.
Tariffs             Wth a maximum tarff of 350 percent, a Import    Tarif redcdos in July 1991 and March       Tariff redu       in Marh 1993 hav redced
weighted tff of 87 percn  and colecion tns      1992 have tdced the maxinum tarff to      the minm  tiff to 85 peent. Import-
of 42 perce  India's tariffs wee xremely high   100 percent. the impot-weift taiff to 64    weIghd taiff to 47 peacnt and collection
by worl standards.                              pere   and the collection rae to 34        rac to around 30 paect for 1993.94.
In Marcb 1993, rMrW   on consumer goods
impoted as bagpge have been reduced from
255 percent to 150 pacen.
Export Conrob       Exports of about 440 im   wre subjet to         Sice April 1992, the mber of iems          Since April 1993. export coob have bee
conarols.                                       subjat to conrols was reduced by 143.      dlimied for 30 addiond  ems. Thee are
215 iemssi subject to export cnrols.
Foreign Ex p        The Fopeign Exc       Regation Act of I973:                                                 Mt estrictions imposed by FMRA on
Cotro                                                                                                          cqrtrs and domestic companies with any
-       restricted expoters actvities;                                                     amunt of foreign eu   have been elimed.
prved  companies with more thm 40                                                 except for thoe restrcti  companies wkh
pert quit from borown funds or                                                    more than 40 peent equiy from acquision
asing deposis    India. fom takig                                                 of eterprss  in the agriultr or pantion
over any busine fS   erest from an                                                sector.
Indian residen from acquirlng ot
disposing of any physcal assets
(icluding land) wiilIadia. from
appointing tehnicas or managBers
without RBt dearance, and from using
their utade marks without  ! claance.
Domestic            Governmen license required for entry, expansion.    8lUnron of licensing reqiments for all    Eimintion of the licensing rm ents for
Investment          and diversification of firms; sv n major aras    but 18 secors. Reducdon in the number of    three additional  rs  (aomobltes, l ,ea
resrved exclusivey for the public sector.       sectrs rserved for the publc sectar from   and white goods). A new Natin  Mieal
17 to 8.                                  Policy has been pesend to Parlament in
March 1993 to remove ming (except for
hydrocarbon, uranm and oO0 f*om the list
of sectors reserved to tht; public set.
Besiles hydroarbon, urnium and onal. th
only seomrs for which the  are still
restric s on pivae seo     try are defnce
ustres, riways and atomic energy.
Foreign             t0veruet li          required fr any foreign    Elimination of need fo Goverment           The amendment of FERA (see abow)
Iwn mt              Iwunem   This lcense was rardy ganted for       approvalb r p cs w th forgn equty          liberalized the ativites of dosdtic cmpanies
investm     In seco  which were net considered  investnme uP to SI percent in a Ust of 34  wih foreign investme  (m*nty or mirit).
strategic. In addition to FERA resic, this     industries which account for 50 p t of      In addiion, the Foreign lIvuetnt Promodon
detred foreign invesut and reduced i to         manuft    outpuL                           Board (FIPB) has been grai  its apprl
lvels fr below th 4e in other developlig                                                   liberaly fot iestmts stil reqir   a
ecwtonues.                                                                                 lce. Apprvals for projecs with up to 100
percent foaign eqt participation in sector
stil requdrg a licence have been given in
. numerousinstances.



- 21 -
64.       The objectives of the proposed loan are to support the measures
introduced in the 1993-94 budget, October 1992, and the first few months of 1993
(Table 7):
* the January 1993 amendment of the FERA Act;
* the reunification of the exchange rate in March 1993;
* the reduction in tariffs in March 1993;
o the limited measures taken to liberalize imports of consumer goods in
October 1992-March 1993; and
* the investment deregulation measures of March (mining) and April 1993
(automobiles, leather, and white goods)
discussed earlier in this report. While further progress over the next few years
to liberalize imports of consumer goods, reduce tariffs, and eliminate remaining
export controis and investment licensing requirements is essential, these
measures have introduced major system changes which have laid the basis for
increasing the export orientation of India's ind&;trial sector and integrating
India into the world economy. In addition, the proposed loan would reinforce the
policy dialogue in crucial reform areas.   While the liberalization of the
investment regime is close to completion, the liberalization of the trade regime
will be phased over a number of years. As the Government takes further steps to
liberalize its external trade regime, new Bank adjustment operations will be
prepared to support the process.
B.   External Financing Reauirements
65.       Notwithstanding the increase in reserves over the last two years, the
management of the balance of payments remains a difficult and challenging task.
Over the next four years, India will need to repay about one-third of its US$76
billion external debt (as of March 1993), that is US$23 billion. Financing the
current account deficit and debt repayments will require about US$8 billion of
gross inflows in 1993-94, and about US$10 billion a year in the subsequent three
years.  While over three-fourths of these external financing needs could be met
through disbursements on existing and expected commitments from bilateral,
multilateral sources and private creditors, the need for exceptional balance of
payments financing will remain substantial. After US$2.6 billion in 1991-92, and
US$2.5 billion in 1992-93, India's exceptional financing needs are expected to
decline to US$1.8 billion in 1993-94 as a result of the larger than anticipated
accumulation of foreign exchange reserves in 1992-93. However, they would return
to about US$2.3-2.5 billion a year in subsequent years (Annex 5). The IMF is
expected to play a significant role in helping to meet the financing gap and
providing the macro framework for further assistance from multilaterals,
including IBRD and IDA, and bilaterals.
66.       In the last two years, the IMF has approved SDR 3.6 billion of loans
to India, including an SDR 1.7 billion under the twenty-month Stand-By approved
in October 1991 and ending in June 1993. The Stand-By has succeeded in achieving
macro-economic stabilization and most of its structural benchmarks have been met
or exceeded.   A 3-year EFF,  complemented by resources from the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), is currently under discussion with the
Government. Through the EFF, the IMF would continue to meet a significant
proportion of India's exceptional financing needs over the next few years.
C. Loan Administration
67.       Procurement.   The loan would be disbursed i;i a single tranche and
would be available upon effectiveness.   It would finance foreign exchange
expenditure associated with imports not included in a negative list.   All
procurement above US$5.0 million equivalent will be through simplified ICB
procedures. Below this limit, the public sector will follow competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and the private sector will follow established
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. There will be no prior review of
any contract award. The loan would reimburse 100 percent of the CIF costs of



- 22 -
imports. Retroactive financing of US$60 million (20 percent of the total loan)
would be available for eligible imports incurred after February 23, 1993.
68.       Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed
against the foreign costs of general imports based on a standard negative list
which includes, inter alia, luxury goods, military equipment and environmentally
hazardous and tobacco products. Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Disbursements would be administered by the Ministry of
Finance in coordination with the Reserve Bank of India. Withdrawal applications
for reimbursement of expenditures under each contract valued less than US$5
million equivalent woutld be submitted under Statement of Expenditures (SOB)
procedures. Withdrawal applications for all other expenditures would be fully
documented. Documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the Ministry
of Finance. The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of six
months. The closing date would be December 31, 1993.
69.       Accounts and Audits.   RBI would maintain accounts and supporting
documentation in respect of the operation.   Audits would be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the closing of
the Government's fiscal year (March 31) in which disbursements under the loan are
made and would include a separate opinion on withdrawals made under SOEs.
D.   Benefits and Risks
70.       Benefits. Through the proposed operation the Bank would be supporting
the Government's program to increase external and domestic competition. As
indicated earlier, the program is critical for increasing the competitiveness of
India' s industrial sector and the export-orientation of the economy without which
the country's balance of payments would not be viable in the second half of the
1990s. The proposed operation is also part of the Bank's country assistance
strategy describecr in the December 1992 CAS to help India meet its exceptional
financing needs over a three-to-four year adjustment period.   The proposed
operation would provide US$300 million to help finance India's balance of
payments. Without such financing, the transitional costs of adjustment would be
high--particularly in terms of growth, inflation, and possible balance of
payments  difficulties.    Adverse  developments  in these areas  would have
significant negative repercussions on large segments of the population and would
erode political support for the Government's economic reform program.
71.       Risks.  The reforms supported by this operation will produce their
full potential benefits only if, over the next few years, the Government
continues to take steps to remove remaining import licensing restrictions and
export controls, and reduce tariffs to the levels recommended by the Tax Reform
Committee. The trade reform process could be interrupted, however, because of:
(i) its actual or perceived redistributive consequences; or (ii) political
opposition to the whole reform process.
72.       Actual or perceived redistributive consequences of the trade reform
process can stem from three sources. First, as discussed earlier, tax reforms
need to be implemented Rari nassu with tariff reductions to ensure that such
reductions are fiscally viable. In India, as in any other country, tax reform
is a difficult process.   Through extensive debate and consultation among
different segments of society, the Government has sensitized the public to the
costs of the current tax system and to the need for remedial action.
Industrialists are already fully aware of the efficiency gains that a more
rational system of taxation would bring about. Second, as noted earlier in this
report, the liberalization of imports of consumer goods is a politically
controversial issue in India. Again in this case, the Government has taken steps
(such as the SIL scheme and the measures taken to liberalize baggage imports) to
prepare the public opinion and prove that the liberalization of imports of
consumer goods need not lead to unmanageable pressures on the balance of payments
or increases in conspicuous consumption that could threaten social order. Third,
the costs and employment consequences of industrial restructuring associated with
further tariff reductions could create strong opposition to continued
liberalization of imports. There is already evidence that some industries are
unable to compete with imports and are being forced to scale down employment.
To some extent, these costs are inevitable. However, the authorities believe
that the phased manner in which import liberalization is being implemented,



- 23 -
should provide time for industries to adjust while new employment opportunities
are being created through the reorientation of production towards exports and
labor-intensive industries. In addition, the stabilization of the economy has
thus far been conducted skillfully and has resulted ;n output and employment
losses which are minimal compared to the experience of other adjusting economies.
To the extent that macroeconomic policies are successful at maintaining growth
at around 4-5 percent as currently envisaged, this should correspondingly reduce
the  costs  associated with  restructuring.    Essential  to  the  success  of
macroeconomic policies in maintaining growth is the availability of external
financing to meet India's exceptional financing needs (para. 65) over the next
few years -- and the continued support from multilaterals and bilaterals.
Finally, with support of IDA and bilateral donors, the Government has established
the National Renewal Fund to provide a social safety net to cover the labor costs
of restructuring and mitigate its employment effects.
73.       Since the beginning of the adjustment process in July 1991, questions
have been raised as to whether the Government would be able to marshall the
political support necessary to sustain the adjustment process over the next
several years. The reform process is changing the complex system of rents and
patronage which had been established over the last four decades and is thus
affecting the Government's constituencies. The Government has skillfully managed
the politics of reform. It has focussed on stimulating public debate to forge
consensus, and demonstrating that the reforms were having positive effects on the
economy. The initiatives taken over the last few months and in the 1993-94
budget in the midst of the disturbances of December 1992 - February 1993, confirm
that the Government considers the implementation of its economic program
essential for the long term recovery of growth, and for strengthening its
political base. The improvements in the economic situation over the last year
and the smooth passage of the 1993-94 Budget by Parliament in early May 1993
suggest that this strategy is proving successful.
PART V.  RCOlMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
June 1, 1993



- 25 -
Annex 1
New Delhi
May 31, 1993
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.        Since July 1991, the Government of India has been implementing an
ambitious. economic programme to stabilize and reform the economy. The programme
seeks to correct unsustainable fiscal and external imbalances; reduce inflation;
maintain the growth momentum, thus protecting recent gains in reducing poverty;
and create the incentives necessary to make India's industrial sector
internationally competitive and capable of the rapid export growth needed to
support a high rate of growth in output and employment in both the agricultural
and industrial sectors. Measures to liberalise India's external sector and the
investment regime are a crucial component of our economic program.
2.        The success of these measures depends in part upon the availability
of adequate external finance. Accordingly, we are requesting a loan from the
World Bank in support of the measures taken over the past few months to
liberalise India's external sector and investment regime in the context of our
overall economic programme.
3.        With  continued  support  of  multilateral  financing  institutions,
particularly the World Bank and the IMF, and also bilateral donors, we are
confident that our far-reaching economic programme will build the basis for
sustained and rapid growth which is essential for employment creation and poverty
alleviation.
4.        The medium-term programme of the Government to liberalise India's
external sector and investment regime is described in the attachment to this
letter.
Kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
Finance Minister
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington DC 20433
USA



- 26 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 1 of 10
Letter of Develorment Pollcv
1.        It is now almost two years that a new Government took office in the
midst of a deep economic crisis and began implementing a comprehensive economic
programme of stabilisation and structural reforms. In June 1991, with less than
US$1 billion (two weeks of imports) of foreign exchange reserves, capital
outflows and no external finance available from commercial sources, India was on
the verge of defaulting on its external debt obligations. The Central Government
fiscal deficit had reached almost 9 percent of GDP in 1990-91 and, if
uncorrected,  would have exceeded 10 percent of GDP in 1991-92.   India's
traditionally low inflation had reached double digit levels in November 1990 and
continued to accelerate reaching 17 percent in August 1991. On the structural
front, extensive Government controls and interventions evolved over the years had
become a constraint on indujtrial competitiveness and needed to be adjusted to
cope with the changing realities of the 1990s. A reorientation was necessary
with a view to reducing Government controls and regulation, encouraging
investment, and enabling the Government to concentrate its limited resources on
poverty reduction and other social priorities.
2.        In less than two years, the Government has overcome the balance of
payments crisis, rebuilt foreign exchange reserves (now at nearly US$7 billion),
reduced the Central Government fiscal deficit (to 5.7 percent of GDP in 1992-93),
and reduced inflation  (to below 7 percent in the last few months).   More
importantly, the Government has introduced significant policy changes aimed at
increasing the efficiency of resource use and making India's economy more
competitive, open to trade and foreign investment. The Government's structural
reform programme has focused on five priority areas: (i) trade; (ii) investment
licensing; (iii) financial sector; (iv) tax structure; and (v) public
enterprises.   Several high level committees  (the Narasimham Committee or
financial sector reform, the Chelliah Committee on tax reforms, and the
Rangarajan Committee on public enterprise reform) have helped articulate near-
and medium-term reform measures needed in these critical areas.
3.        The Government's medium-term stabilisation and reform programme aims
at further reducing the fiscal deficit, external imbalances and inflation.
Prudent management of India's external debt with a view to lengthening its
maturity and improving its terms is another important Government objective.
Central to our programme of economic reform is tax reform, we, therefore, have
embarked on a comprehensive reform of both direct and indirect taxes in this and
the last Budget. The full programme of tax reform will be implemented by the end
of the Eighth Plan. But the final objective is clear. We will move to a tax
system, which is simple, has a wide base with moderate rates of tax, is well
administered and, most important, promotes economic efficiency, growth and



- 27 -
Annex I
Attachment
Page 2 of 10
equity. Necessary measures will include extension in the coverage of MODVAT to
new areas, phased reductions in customs tariffs, elimination of wasteful and
complex exemptions in customs and excise, steps to improve and modernize the
administration of all major taxes and gradual progress to a full value added tax
system in consultation with State Governments. Broadening the base of taxation
is essential for continuing with the process of rationalizing rates to customs
and excise duties and for implementing the corporate tax recommendations of the
Tax Reforms Committee. In addition, the Government will continue to take steps
to reform the financial sector, restructure public enterprises, further
liberalise the trade and investment regime, and extend the reform process to
important sectors of the economy such as agriculture, power, infrastructure,
telecommunications and hydrocarbons.   A comprehensive programme to improve
India's social safety net and mitigate the transitional social costs of
adjustment measures was started last year. This programme has the support of IDA
and bilateral donors.
4.        While the ongoing structural adjustment is expected to reduce the
current account deficit to levels financeable by normal capital flows, this
process will take time and there will be an exceptional financing need for some
years to come. Exceptional financing amounted to around US$2.8 billion in 1991-
92 and US$2.5 billion in 1992-93.   India's exceptional financing needs are
expected to decline to around US$1.8 billion in 1993-94, but will return to
around US$2.5 billion a year for the subsequent three to four years. The IMF,
the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and other multilaterals and
bilaterals have helped finance our exceptional financing needs and India expects
to continue to access such resources over the next three to four years. An
Extended Fund Facility (BFF), complemented with ESAP resources, in support of the
Government's medium-term stabilisation and reform programme is currently being
discussed with the IMF.
5.        The Government's medium-term macroeconomic targets as well as the
short- and medium-term objectives of its trade and investment liberalisation
programme are outlined in the paragraphs below.
Consolidatinq the Macroeconomic Situation
6.        Prudent  demand  management  will  remain  at  the  centre  of  the
Government's stabilisation programme and the fiscal deficit will be reduced
further in the ccming years. The unfortunate incidents in India during December
1992 - February 1993 had a negative impact on tax revenues which, in the last
quarter of the fiscal year, declined by one-third in relation to the previous
quarter. In addition, the sale of government equity in public enterprises
generated only Rs 19 billion of the Rs 35 billion that had been expected earlier.



- 28 -
Annex .
Attachment
Page 3 of 10
These shortfalls in tax and non-tax revenues have been the main contributor to
the fiscal deficit for 1992-93 being 0.7 percent of GDP higher than what had been
intended by the Government. The fiscal adjustment was nonetheless significant
since the fiscal deficit was reduced from 6.2 percent of GDP in 1991-92 to 5.7
percent of GDP.
7.        The 1993-94 budget aims at further reducing the Central Government
fiscal deficit, from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1992-93 to 4.7 percent of GDP in 1993-
94. Because of the rising cost of interest payments on the Central Government
debt, the contractionary effect of the 1993-94 budget on aggregate demand is much
sharper than suggested by the reduction in the fiscal deficit. Non-interest
expenditure of the Central Government is budgeted to decline by 5 percent in real
terms--to 11.5 percent of GDP in 1993-94, from 12.9 percent of GDP in 1992-93
(and 15.2 percent of GDP in 1990-91). Continuation of this trend in the future
is not feasible, however, in view of the large expenditu:e needs for human
resources and infrastructure. Future reductions in the fiscal deficit will have
to rely primarily on improved resource mobilization. Since this will have to be
achieved during a period when customs tariffs will be progressively reduced, it
is essential to ensure that reforms in tax policies and tax administration are
implemented at a pace which ensures improvement in tax revenues, thus reconciling
the Government's stabilisation and structural reform objectives (revenues from
customs account for Rs 310 billion of Central Government's tax revenues of Rs 667
billion budgeted  for 1993-94,  i.e.,  45 percent).    Through  improved tax
performance, the Government intends to reduce the fiscal deficit to 4 percent of
GDP or less in 1994-95, and lower levels in subsequent years.
8.        In addition to further fiscal consolidation, monetary policy will
continue to play an important role in further reducing inflation. The target for
monetary growth for 1993-94 is 13 percent, consistent with an inflation target
of around 6 percent. Interest rates continue to be very high at over 10 percent
in real terms but it is expected that as the fiscal deficit is reduced further,
and long term inflationary expectations are revised downwards, monetary policy
will be suitably adjusted to bring real interest rates to more reasonable levels.
9.        Finally, reductions in the current account deficit of the balance of
payments to levels sustainable by long-term capital inflows is a crucial element
of the Government's macroeconomic programme. The policy instruments for managing
the current account have changed considerably as a result of the reforms of the
last two years. The virtual elimination of licensing requirements for imports
of capital and intermediate goods, and the introduction of a free market for
foreign exchange since March 1992 for most current account transactions, have
meant  that  import  controls or foreign exchange  rationing are no  longer
instruments tor managing the current account.   Continued fiscal adjustment,



- 29 -
Annex I
Attachment
Page 4 of 10
prudent monetary policies, commercial policies, and moderate levels of government
external borrowing will now be relied upon as the principal instruments to manage
the balance of payments and bring about the required reductions in the current
account deficit. Our objective is to reduce the current account deficit of the
balance of payments from US$5 billion (2 percent of GDP} in 1992-93, to US$4.3
billion (1.7 percent of GDP) in 1993-94, and US$2.6 billion (0.9 percent of GDP)
in 1995-96.
Trade and Investment Liberalisation
10.       Over the past several decades,  India's development policies have
created a well-diversified industrial sector, which in terms of output is one of
the largest in the developing world. The need now is to create the conditions
necessary to make India's industrial sector internationally competitive, able to
generate the rapid export growth rate the country needs for supporting a high
rate of economic growth. The liberalisation of trade and investment has thus
been at the core of the Government's agenda over the past two years. Progress
thus far in liberalising the trade and investment regime as well as the
Government's short- and medium-term objectives in these two policy areas are
outlined below.
Trade Policies
11.       Until 1991,  India's trade regime was based on pervasive import
licensing restrictions and very high tariffs. The level and structure of this
protection discouraged exports, reduced the opportunities for agricultural
growth, increased the cost of inputs to producers, and penalized domestic
consumers.    To improve  India's export performance,  increase agricultural
employment and incomes, and make the industrial sector internationally
competitive, the Government has taken significant steps over the last two years
to open the economy to international trade. In particular, the exchange rate and
external payments regime has been liberalised, import licensing restrictions have
been dramatically reduced, and tariffs have been lowered to more moderate levels.
12.       The Liberalised ExchanQe Rate Management System.  Until March 1992,
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) fixed the exchange rate periodically taking into
account the differential between India's domestic inflation, and that in the
country' s trading partners. This crawling-peg system yielded good results during
the second half of the 1980s when exports grew at unprecedented high rates and
inflation remained relatively stable.
13.       Shortly after coming to power, confronted with a foreign exchange
crisis and accelerated capital 'outflows, the Government devalued the rupee by 22



- 30 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 5 of 10
percent in terms of Rupees per US$--from 21.2 Rs/US$ to Rs. 25.8/US$. Combined
with the prudent and tight financial policies that have been pursued since July
1991, this devaluation achieved the immediate objective of stopping capital
outflows and the run on reserves. Foreign exchange reserves have been built up
from about US$1 billion in June 1991 to US$5.7 billion in March 1992.
14.       The liberalisation of the economy required, however, more flexible
arrangements in the exchange rate and external payments area.    These were
introduced in two steps. First, on February 29, 1992 the Government eliminated
all the emergency and temporary foreign exchange controls that had been gradually
introduced during 1990-91 in response to the emerging foreign exchange crisis,
and had been made stricter after July 1991. At the same time, the Government
eliminated import licensing requirements on virtually all imports of
intermediates and capital goods, and introduced the Liberalised Exchange Rate
Management System (LERMS). The new system established a free market for foreign
exchange, with all permitted transactions in that market taking place at the
market rate. The transactions permitted in the foreign exchange market were: (i)
payments for all imports and other current account transactions; (ii) receipts
of 60 percent of exports and other current account transactions; and (iii) all
capital transactions, except those related to grants and to the DMF. Forty
percent of current account receipts had to be surrendered at the official rate
of Rs. 2S.8/US$ to finance imports of petroleum and petroleum products,
fertilizers, and other priority items.   When it introduced the LERMS, the
Government announced its intention, within two to three years time, to end the
dual exchange rate system and allow 100 percent of current account receipts to
be converted at the market exchange rate.
1S.       The LERMS proved highly successful.  It did not lead to unmanageable
pressures on the balance of payments or the exchange rate--which remained
relatively stable in the Rs. 30-32/US$ range since the LERMS has been introduced.
Indicative of the Government's determination to accelerate the pace of reform
when circumstances make it possible, the exchange rate was in fact reunified in
March 1993--a full two-year ahead of our schedule. India has thus moved to a
floating exchange rate system. The LERMS will remain one of the pillars of the
Government's external policies and a competitive exchange rate will be maintained
through an appropriate mix of fiscal, monetary, external borrowing and reserve
management policies.
16.       LicensinQ Restrictions and Tariffs on ImDorts.   The Government s
policy towards import licensing restrictions and tariffs has been outlined in the
Eighth Plan for 1992-97 made public in July 1992, which states that: "...by the
end of the Eighth Plan, the negative list of imports should contain only items
which would be banned for reasons such as environment and safety. Any protection



- 31 -
Attachment
Page 6 of 10
deemed necessary for domestic industry will be provided through the exchange rate
and the tariffs...our objective should be to eliminate the existing distortions
on the tariff structure and effect a substantial reduction in the tariffs by the
end of the Eighth Plan period... It should be the objective of policy to move to
a trade regime in which the average tariff level comes down to about 25 percent
within a period of three to four years. n In line with the approach stated in the
Eighth Plan, the Chelliah Committee on Tax Reform has recommended a tariff
schedule corresponding to this average where tariffs on consumer goods are at 40-
so percent, tariffs on intermediates are at 30 percent, tariffs on capital goods
are at 20 percent, and the minimum tariff is 10 percent, except for essential
products such as drugs, wheat and rice, which will continue to be imported free
of duty.    The Government  is committed to implementing  the Eighth Plan
recommendations, as also those recommendations of the Chelliah Committee on Tax
Reform which have been accepted, and will continue the process which has been
underway over the last two years to reduce both licensing restrictions and
tariffs on imports.
17.       In July 1991, over 4,000 of the 5,000 positions in the Harmonized
System of classification were subject to import licensing restrictions. Even for
the about 1,000 positions in the Open General License, imports were not actually
free as they were often subject to some administrative clearances and were not
allowed to be resold (the "actual user" condition). As a result of the measures
incorporated in the Export-Import Policies of April 1992 and March 1993, except
for a small negative list (corresponding to less than 300 of the 5,000 positions
in the Harmonized System of classification), imports of virtually all
intermediates and capital goods are now free of linensing restrictions. Imports
of consumer goods (accounting for 1,500 positions of the Harmonized System),
however, remain restricted.
18.       Consistent with the trade policy objectives outlined in the Eighth
Plan, the Government will further phase out remaining licensing restrictions on
imports, including final goods, and replace them with appropriate tariffs.
Imports of some of the 300 intermediate and capital goods still in the negative
list will remain restricted because of security, ethical or environmental
reasons. The Government proposes to review the others and eliminate them in a
phased manner.
19.       Regarding consumer goods, some steps have already been taken to relax
import licensing restrictions. In October 1992 the Government started granting
freely tradeable Special Import Licenses (SILs), which can be used to import
consumer goods specified in a positive list. Besides this, in February 1993, the
Government reduced tariffs on consumer goods brought in as baggage by Indian
nationals from 255 percent to 150 percent and abolished restrictions on the



- 32 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 7 of 10
resale of these imports.   It is our policy to make further progress in this
direction next year also to reach in a phased manner the Eighth Plan goal of an
import regime free of licensing restrictions, where any protection for domestic
industry would be based on tariffs consistent with the recommendations of the
Chelliah Committee on Tax Reform.
20.       Regarding tariff reform, the dependence of the Central Government on
customs revenues and particularly the large share of customs revenues from high
tariffs (in 1990-91 tariffs in the 110-400 percent range generated one-third of
customs revenues) has meant that reduction in tariffs has had to proceed at a
slower pace than would have been possible otherwise. Tariff reductions were
introduced, however, in each one of the three budgets the Government has
presented to Parliament since coming to power, and these reductions were
significant. Since July 1991, the Government has reduced maximum tariffs from
400 percent to 85 percent, and even lower (15-80 percent) for a number of
intermediates where it was felt that domestic producers were ready to face
international competition.   The pace of reduction has been faster for some
capital goods to avoid postponement of investment by private investors awaiting
further price reductions. In the case of machinery, tariffs have been reduced
from 80-100 percent in July 1991 to 35 percent at present.  As a result of all
these changes, import-weighted tariffs have been reduced from 87 percent in 1990-
91 to 64 percent in 1992-93 and to 47 percent in 1993-94.   Following the
objective of the Eighth Plan, it is the policy of the Government to reduce
tariffs further to reach an import-weighted tariff of 25 percent in two to three
years time.   The Government has also accepted the thrust of the Tax Reform
Committee's recommendations, which will guide the tariff reductions to be
implemented over the next two to three years.
21.       Exnorts.   Rapid export growth is essential to strengthen India's
balance of payments and improve the country's access to international capital
markets. Export incentives have improved gradually but persistently with the
reduction in protection, the devaluation of the rupee in July 1991, the
institution of the Liberalised Exchange Rate Management System (LERMS) in March
1992, and the reunification of the exchange rate in March 1993. In addition, the
amendment of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) in January 1993 has
improved exporters' access to the foreign exchange required to carry out their
activities. These steps notwithstanding, additional measures are necessary to
accelerate export growth. First, tariffs need to be reduced further along the
lines indicated earlier in this letter not only to increase the international
competitiveness of India's industrial sector, but also to increase its export
orientation.   Reduced levels of protection are necessary to generate the
incentives for domestic producers to produce for the external rather than for the
domestic market.  Second, remairing controls on exports need to be progressively



- 33 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 8 of 10
phased out. Third, the functioning of India's export promotion schemes needs to
be improved. Finally, the country's export-oriented infrastructure needs to
improve.   In the next few months, the Government will initiate a study to
identify the most critical gaps in the country's export-oriented infrastructure,
and the investment and institutional changes required to fill these gaps. This
should help accelerate the preparation of an investment operation now under
discussion with the World Bank aimed at improving the provision of infrastructure
services to exporters.
22.       Export Controls. The Government has already taken significant steps
to reduce remaining export controls. The 1992 Export-Import Policy reduced the
number of items subject to export controls from 439 to 296 and the 1993 Export-
Import Policy reduced it further to 215. Exports of many of these 215 items are
restricted for justifiable reasons having to do with security (arms and
ammunition), the environment (exports of 8 items are restricted to comply with
the Montreal Protocol) or social considerations (common rice). The process of
removing or rationalizing export controls will continue, including those on
economically significant agricultural commodities such as rice and cotton, as
part of the Government's strategy for promoting agricultural exports and
improving income earning possibilities for farmers.
23.       Export Promotion.  Regarding export promotion schemes, direct and
indirect exporters -- domestic suppliers of inputs to direct exporters -- have
to be given access to raw materials, intermediate inputs and capital goods at
international prices if they are to be competitive in international markets.
Various schemes are already in place which allow exporters access to duty- and
indirect tax-free raw materials and intermediate inputs, and reduced duties on
capital goods imports.   The most important of these schemes are the Duty
Exemp'-ion Scheme, the Duty Drawback Scheme and the Export Promotion Capital Good
Scheme. These are, however, in need of improvement.
24.       Significant changes in the Duty Exemption Scheme in 1991 improved the
administrative arrangements for accessing duty-free imported inpuits for direct
exporters and final stage export manufacturers. However, existing procedures
prevent indirect exporters from having similar access to these improved
administrative arrangements. They are therefore at a disadvantage vis-a-vis
foreign suppliers, contributing to the reduction of domestic value-added content
of exports. The Government proposes to evolve a strategy, to be implemented in
a realistically-phv.sed manner, guaranteeing both direct and indirect exporters
equal and rapid access to imported inputs at international prices based on the
Duty Exemption Scheme.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 9 of 10
25.       Policy changes have also been made with respect to the Duty Drawback
Scheme to help expedite the processing of import and excise duty rebates on
inputs for exporters, which in some cases have taken over one year. Until the
Duty Exemption Scheme is implemented effectively for all exporters including
small exporters and indirect exporters, the Duty Drawback Scheme needs to be
improved in its administrative arrangements.   As in the case of the Duty
Exemption Scheme, the Government will take concrete steps to reform the Duty
Drawback Scheme and resolve the above major issues. The plan designed to do so
should be ready early next year, when its implementation will begin.
26.       While duty-free access to intermediate inputs has been in place for
a while for exporters, similar access has not been extended to capital goods.
The April 1992 Export-Import Policy granted some tariff relief to exporters
through the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) Scheme. Under the EPCG Scheme,
capital goods can be imported at 15 percent tariff if export obligation is 4
times the CIF value of the capital good fulfilled over a five-year period. To
reduce further the cost of capital for exporters, the Government plans to extend
the EPCG to capital goods imports for direct and indirect exporters. This will
help enhance exporters' ability to compete on an equal footing with competitors
in international markets.
Investment Dereaulation
27.       The Government has already taken major steps to liberalise India's
investment regime.  The July 1991 New Industrial Policy eliminated licensing
requirements for all but eighteen industries, reduced the number of industries
reserved for the public sector from eighteen to eight, and an automatic approval
procedure has been established for foreign investment up to 51 percent of equity
in 34 priority sectors which account for over 40 percent of manufacturing output.
With these policy changes, industrial production subject to licensing control has
been reduced to about 20 percent. However, the Eighth Plan made public in July
1992 highlighted that some aspects of the new industrial policy are still
restrictive and thus, that during the Eighth Plan period, the list of industries
requiring licenses would need to be shortened further with only industries
related to defense, explosives and hazardous chemicals remaining in the
restricted list of industries requiring licenses. Regarding foreign investment,
the Eighth Plan recommends the Government to monitor continuously the progress
on this front, and take strong initiatives as required, to ensure that India
remains competitive vis-a-vis other developing countries.
28.       The  Government  is  committed  to  implementing  the  Eighth  Plan
recommendations regarding the deregulation of investment. Thus, since July 1992,
the Government amended in January 1993 the PERA Act to: (i) remove restrictions



- 35 -
Attachment
Page 10 of 10
on FMRA companies (those with 40 percent foreign equity) with respect to
borrowing, and acquiring land or interest in domestic concerns; (ii) free FERA
companies from the need for Government approval to appoint agents or the use of
their trademarks; and (iii) abolish the need for prior Government approval to
employ foreign nationals in India. As a result of these measures, domestic
companies with or without foreign equity investment are now subject to virtually
the same regulatory regime.
29.       Additional steps to liberalise further the investment regime were
taken in March 1993 when a New National Mineral Policy was presented to
Parliament which provides for the removal of the mining sector (except for
uranium, hydrocarbons and coal) from the list of sectors reserved for the public
sector, and allows foreign investment in mining up to 50 percent of equity with
higher levels of equity being allowed on a case-by-case basis. In addition, in
April 1993, the Government has removed licensing restrictions on three important
industries (leather, motor cars, and white goods).
30.       Finally,  in cases where a license is still required,  investment
licenses have been granted liberally, both to domestic and foreign investors.
Since August 1991, only about 3-4 percent of foreign investors' applications have
been rejected, and only 2-3 percent in the case of domestic investors.   The
Government will continue this liberal approval policy. In addition, it will also
review the remaining licensing restrictions for domestic investors (mostly for
investments in agro-industry) and reduce them further as the reform process is
extended to the agricultural sector.   As indicated in the Eighth Plan, the
Government will also review continuously the policy framework for foreign
investors to ensure that India can compete effectively with countries that have
been successful in attracting foreiqn investment.   It will also seek to
consolidate all the laws and rez-slatic.  governing foreign investment into one
single public document setting     Government's foreign investment policy.



The Recent Evolution of lndials Trade Reaime
Status after the Measures
Lists                 Contents                                         Status Before July 1991                  Introduced in July 1991 and March-April 1992
Restricted            Capital goods:  selected machinery used         QRs and official exchange rate            List deleted.  Two items shifted to negative list.
Appendix 1          in cinema, jute, printing, and textite          applied.                                  Remafning items freely importable. Market
Part A              industries.                                                                               exchange rate applies.
Open General          Capital goods: selected machinery used          Importable at official exchanwe           List deleted. All items freely importabie.
License               in industries mentioned above, not on           rate.  Actual user condition              Second-hand machines atlowed withowt license for
Appendix 1          restricted list (Appendix 1, part A);           applied. Advertisement procedure          eleven sectors.  Other second-hand machines
Part B              selected machinery in leather,                  applied above certain value.              altowed with licenses. Narket exchange rate
electronics, food processing, silk.             License required if second-hand.         applies.
seafood packaging, industrial jewelry,          Machines over seven years old with
and footwear.                                   less than five years expected
residual life not allowed.
Banned.
Banned                Tallow, fat, or oils.                                                                     garnned.
Appendix 2
Part A
ORs and official exchange rate
Restricted            Selected chemicals, engineering items           applied.                                  List deleted. 34 items shifted to negative list.
Appendix ?          including electronics, iron and steel                                                     Two items banned. Remaining items f'.ztty
Part B              items and att consuner goods not on                                                       importable. Market exchanse rate applies.
other lists.
QRs on icports at official exchange      List delet,d. Three items shifted to negative        o
Limited               Selected chemicats and engineering items        rate. Also importable using REP           list.  Remaining 726 items freely importable.         4
Permissible           not on restricted tist (Appendix 2, Part        licenses, depending on the export         Market exchange rate applies.                        I
Appendix 3          B).                                             product.
Part A
ORs on imports at official exchange      List deleted.  Freely importable at market
Limited               Non-alloy steel items, alloy items, and         rate and same importables using REP       exchange rate.
Permissible           ferro-alloys.                                   licenses.
Appendix 3
Part B                                                             ORs (supplementary licenses) and
official e,.change rate applied.         List deteted.  freely importable at market
Special Import        Materials, components, and constambles                                                    exchange rate.
Facility              used for the manufacture of certain             Importable by canalizing agencies
Appendix 4         capital goods.                                  at official exchange rate. Also
inportable using REP licenses,           List deleted.  Four items--raw sitk, raw cotton,
Canalized             Inports by public sector agencies,              depending on the export product.          naturat rulter and DOT Technical-- shifted to
(nonsensitive)        including raw cotton, raw silk, films,                                                    negative list.  Remaining items freely importable.
Appendix 5A        raw jute & hemp, chemicals, metal                                                         Market exchange rate applies.
scraps, metals & minerals, and non-alloy
steel.
OQ 
it 
n 



The Recent Evolution of ind a's Trade Reame (cont.)
Status after the Measures
Lists                 Contents                                         Status Before July 1991                   Intro*daed in July 1991 arW Natch-Aprit 1992
Canalized             Petroleu  prodsts, fertitizers  drugs,          Canlized awd isportable at                Sonm petroleum praduts decanalized and froety
(sensitive)           feature fitms, video films, oits, seeds.        official exchange rate.                    FnprtAbte at market rate. Newsprint ed video
Appendix 58        cereals, newsprint fatty acids. and                                                       films shifted to negtf ve list and iqiortabla at
oils.                                                                                    the market exchanse rate.  Remining B item
iqportable onty by canatizing agencies at the
official exchange rate.
Alt lists deleted. Freely iSportabte at market
open Genaral          oem and jewelry mochinery; medfcal               lmportable at official exchange          exchange rate.
License               euipment; drugs; sutures and needtes            rate (conditions applied for some
Appendix 6          for surgical purposes; oechational and          fimorts).  SubJect to actual user
Lists 1-7;         scientiflc books; and diving equipment.         conditions.
List a,
Part II;
List 9;
List 11
Raw materials, coponents, consucebles                                                   Lists deleted.  Freely ioportabte at market
Open General          and tools for actual users and export           Actual user condition apptied.            exchange rate.                                      W
License               huses, and for manuf acture of                  Ilportable at official exchange
Appendix 6          electronic ftems (for actual users).             rate.
List 8,
Part l;
List 10            items repaired abroad; free technical
and trade sasples; blueprints and                                                        List deleted.  Freely importable at mrrket
Open General          drawings; goods icported against an             timortabte at officiat exchange           exchange rate.
License               insurance ctaim.                                rate subject to certain conditions.
Appendix 7
Scientiffc and measuring instruments.
ARa and official exchange rate           List deleted.  Frtely imxortable at market
Restrieted            Spares for certain machinery and                applied.                                  exchange rate.
Appen1dix 8         equipment.
ApR  and officiaL exchange rate          List deleted.  Freely i3porbtble at mwrket
Supplemnetary                                                         applied.                                  exchange rate.
License               Equipment and mAchinery altowed as
Appendiix 9         spares.
aRs and official exchange rate           List deleted.  Freely importable at mtrket
Restricted            Sports goods/equipment.                         applied.                                  exthange rate.
Appendix 10
ORs and official exchange rate           Subsumed under egative list.   lqportable at
Restricted                                                            applied.                                 earket exchange rate.
Appendix 11                                                                                                                                                     0
00
Sr:  Mnistry of Commerce                                                                                                                                       o



India - The 8volution of the Tariff Structure, 19S7-1994
Tariff Rates (in percent)                                 Tariff Rates (in percent)
1987-88                                                     1990-91
Icport                                                   Import
sI8C                                                                               Stand.  Weighted        No. of                            Stand.  Weighted        No. of
Code                        Sector                          MiA.   Max.   Mean    Dev.    Average           Item      min.   Max.    Mean    Dev.   Average           Items
whole  oonmy                                           0.0   400.0   117.7    40.8        69.8         4998      0.0   405.0   128.0    40.6        87.4         5029
Agricultural products                                   0.0   236.0    94.1    49.7        45.1          294      0.0   250.0   105.5    47.5        70.1          293
Consumer goods                                                            -        -          -            -      0.0   320.0   141.5    33.2       164.2         1187
Saggage                                                 -       -       -       -           -            -  25S.0  255.0   256.0        0.0      255.0             1
Other                                                0.0   346.0   134.6    27.8         91.2         1160     0.0   320.0  141.4    33.1        124.6          1186
Processed veg. & animal products (inel. food)    45.0   245.0  128.0    27.2           90.0          392     0.0   320.0   136.0   34.8        129.0           40s
Other consumer goods                               0.0   345.0   137.9    27.5         95.8          768     0.0   250.0   144.2    31.8       10S.9           781
Intermediate goods                                     0.0   400.0   123.9    41.0         61.1         2476     0.0   405.0   132.4    42.4        78.3          2481
crude petrolewa & petroleum oils                    24.0    59.0    41.5    17.5         50.3            2    36.0    90.0    63.0    27.0        49.4             2  >
Pertilizers                                          0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0         0.0           26     0.0   110.0    79.2    41.8       107.3            26
Unworked gems                                        0.0    4S.0    30.0    19.2          0.0           11     0.0   110.0    68,2   51.8           0.1           11
Interaediate inputs for capital goods                6.S   345.0   122.7    42.6         89.3          616    46.0   350.0   142.2    64.S       136.6           517
Other intermediate goods                             0.0   400.0   126.6    37.6         85.3         1921     0.0   405.0   130.9    37.2       105.4          1925
Capital goods                                           3.0   236.0    91.S    33.7        90.6         1068     0.0   205.0   108.9    31.7         97.4         1068
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank Staff Bestimates.
(Contficued)
0
O 



The Bvolution of the Tariff Structure, 1987-1994                                            (Continued)
1992-93 Tariff Rates (in percent)               1993-94 Tariff Rates (in percent)
Import                                          Import
cSIC                                                                                  Stand.  Weighted                                Stand.  Weighted        No. of
Lode                        Sector                           Min.    Max.    Mean    Dev.    Average         Min.    Max.    Mean    Dev.    Average           Items
Whole Economy                                            0.0   355.0    94.4    33.7          63.7        0.0   400.0    70.6    29.6         47.1          5029
Agricultural products                                    0.0   110.0    58.7    49.2          29.8       0.0    85.0    47.0    38.8          24.8           293
Consumer goods                                           0.0   270.0    91.6    41.5         143.S       0.0   315.0    71.4    33.6          94.4          1187
Baggage                                              255.0   255.0   255.0       0.0      255.0      150.0   150.0    5l0.0      0.0      255.0              1
Other                                                  0.0   270.0    91.5    41.3          94.8       0.0   315.0    71.3    33.5         70.1          1186
Processed veg. & animal products (incl. food)        0.0   270.0    64.9    55.2         98.5        0.0   315.0    52.2    48.4         69.5           405
Other consumer goods                                 0.0   110.0   105.2    21.2         79.3        0.0    85.0    81.2    14.4         72.5           781
Intermediate goods                                       0.0   355.0   103.4    25.5         54.9        0.0   400.0    77.8    25.5         42.4          2481      1
Crude petroleum & petroleum oils                       0.0    36.0    18.0    18.0         27.0        0.0    36.0    18.0    18.0         27.0             2       .
Fertilizers                                            0.0   105.0    77.3    40.3        102.4        0.0    85.0    49.2    39.9         82.4            26      1
Unworked gems                                          0.0   110.0    65.5    49.8           0.1       0.0    85.0    54.1    40.9           0.1           11
Intermediate inputs for capital goods                 35.0   145.0   105.8    13.1        101.3       20.0    85.0    75.5    13.9         71.1           517
Other intermediate goods                               0.0   355.0   103.5    27.0         76.8        0.0   400.0    79.1    27.1         57.5          1925
Capital goods                                            0.0   115.0    86.3    25.5          75.8       0.0    85.0    60.4    24.1         49.4          1068
ource: Ministry of Finance and Bank staff estimates.
ote: Import weights are based on 1987-88.
aQ a
0
NDt



-41-                                         Anex 
Page 1 of 2
1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95   1995-96
Growth Rates (Percent)                     S.2      1.2       4.0      4.S       5.0       5.5
GDP                                        5.3      2.6       3.2      4.7       s.0       S.5
GDY                                        3.2      0.7       1.3      2.8       3.2       3.7
GDY per Capita                            -1.1      4.2       2.8      2.3       2.5       3.0
Consumption per Capita
InflatiQ;                                 10.7     13.3      10.1      7.0       7.0       6.0
Debt Leric  (US$ billion)                  6.9      6.6       7.0      7.6       9.4       10.7
Percent of Exports of
Goods and Services                      27.1     26.0      26.8     25.7      28.1      28.8
Percent of GDP                             2.3      2.7       2.9      3.0       3.6       3.9
Rercent Of GDP
Gross Investment                          26.S     24.1      23.2     23.5      24.3      24.8
Domestic Savings                          24.5     23.7      21.7     22.4      23.5      24.3
National Savings                          23.9     23.2      21.1     21.8      23.0      23.8
Public Investment                         10.2      9.2       8.3      6.2       8.4       8.3
Public Savings                             0.0      0.5       0.7      1.7       2.4       2.8
Private Investment                        16.3     14.9      14.9     15.3      15.9      16.5
Private Savings                           23.9     22.7      20.4     20.1      20.6      21.0
Ratio of Public to Private
Investment                               0.62     0.62      0.56     0.54      0.53      0.50
MarMinal National SaviZs Rato             44.7     19.6       6.7     27.8      33.0      31.3
CMrrent Account iadigaors
Export Growth Rate                         2.6     -2.0      -2.3     11.2      10.1       8.6
Exports (percent of GDP)                   7.9      9.4       9.8     10.7      11.6      12.3
Import Growth Rate                        -2.1    -18.9       8.4      6.S       6.6       7.4
Imports (percent of GDP)                   9.9      9.8      11.3     11.$      12.4      12.8
Current Account (US$ billion)             -7.7     -2.0      -5.0     -4.3      -3.4      -2.6
Current Account (percent of GDP)          -2.6     -0.8      -2.1     -1.7      -1.3       -0.9



- 42 -
Page 2 of 2
Balance of Pavment
(US$ billions at current prices)
0*60A.t.4
1990-91  1991-92  1992-93   1993-94   1994-95  1995-96
A. Exports of Goods h NFS               23.4      23.3      23.6       27.0      30.6      34.1
1. Merchandise (FOB)                 18.5      18.1     18.4       21.3      24.4      27.6
2. Non-factor Services                4.9       5.2      5.2        5.7       6.1       6.5
B. Imports of Goods & NFS               29.4      24.3      27.2      29.8       32.7      35.5
1. Merchandise (FOB)                 25.2      19.7     22.3       24.7      27.3      29.8
2. Non-factor Services                4.1       4.5      4.9        5.1        5.4      5.7
C. Resource Balance                     -6.0      -0.9      -3.6       -2.8      -2.1      -1.4
D. Net Factor Income                    -3.7      -3.8      -3.6       -3.8      -4.0      -4.1
1. Factor Receipts                    0.3       0.2      0.2        0.3        0.4      0.6
2. Factor Payments                   -4.0      -4.0     -3.8       -4.2       -4.4     -4.6
B. Net Current Transfers                 2.0       2.7       2.2        2.3       2.6      2.8
1. Transfer Receipts                  2.0       2.7      2.2        2.4        2.7      2.8
a. Workers Remittances               1.9       2.5      2.1        2.2        2.5      2.7
b. Other Current Transfers           0.1       0.2      0.1        0.2        0.2      0.1
2. Transfer Payments                   -        -          -         -          -         -
F. Current Account Balance              -7.7      -2.0      -5.0      -4.3       -3.4     -2.6
G. Net Long-Term Capital Inflow          4.2       4.0       5.6        5.0       6.2       5.6
1. Foreign Direct Investment          0.1       C.2      0.4        0.6        0.8      1.0
2. Official Capital Grants            0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5      0.5
3. Net LT Loans                       2.8       4.9      4.0        3.3       4.3       3.4
a. Disbursements                     5.2       7.5      6.9        6.8        8.4      8.3
b. Repayments                        2.4       2.6      2.9        3.5        4.1      4.9
4. Other Long-Term Inflows            0.8      -1.6      0.7        0.6        0.6      0.7
S.  Capital Flows NEI                    0.6       0.7      -0.8       -0.9      -0.8      -0.6
I. Capital Account Balance               4.8       4.7      4.8        4.1        5.4      5.0
J. Net IMP Credit                        1.2       0.8       1.3        0.2      -1.1      -1.4
K. Gross Reserve Changes                 1.8      -3.4      -1.0        0.0      -0.9      -0.9
(excl. gold)
(- indicates increase)
Memo Items:
1. Current Account Deficit
as a Percent of GDP               2.6       0.8      2.1        1.7       1.3       0.9
2. End-Year Reserves
(US$ billion)                    2.3       5.7       6.7        6.7       7.6       8.5
3. Gross Reserves in Months
of Imports                        1.1      3.5       3.6        3.3       3.3       3.4
4. Real Bxchange Rate Index
(1980-81-100)                    137       168       187        192       198       204



- 43 -
ibcternal XF,inaI RLauim e==s
(U$8 billions)
I.timated              Proiecteed
1992-93   1993-94  1994-95  1995-96 1996-97
Current Account Deficit             -5.0     -4.3    -3.4      -2.6    -2.3
MLT debt repayments                  2.9      3.5      4.1      4.9      7.3
IMF repayments                       0.3      0.1      1.1      1.4      0.7
Increase in gross reserves           1.0       0       0.9      0.9      1.4
Total financing requirement          9.3      7.9      9.S      9.9    11.8
Financing sources:                   6.9      6.1      7.0      7.6      9.S
Official Grant                     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Portfolio and direct investment  0.4        0.6      0.8      1.0      1.3
Bilateral Loans                    1.0      1.1      1.2      1.4      1.6
Multilateral Loans                 1.8      1.9      2.0      2.2      2.4
Private Creditors                  3.2      2.1      2.5      2.5      3.7
Uxceptional Financing                2.5      1.8      2.5      2.3      2.3



- 45 -
_..........
PAno 1 of s
THE STATUS OF EANR GROUP OPERAT5ONS IN INDIA
A. STAT=EME  OF EANK LANS AmD IDA cuEIs
(As of March 31, 1993)
US$ Million
(net of cancellations)
Loan or   Fiscal Year                                                _______ . ..______,,,,_,__
Credit No.of Appr  Purpose                                             1BR        IDA l/ Undisbursed 2/
1/     96 Loans/                                                       7215.4
l/      162 Credlts fully disbursed/cancelled                                     12314.5
1356-IN   1983   Upper Indravati Hydro Pover                             -         170.00         18.29
2393-ZN   1984   Dudhicbhua Coal                                       10S.00        -            16.S0
2442-ZN   1984   Farakka II Thermal PoWer                              278.80        -            38.82
1496-IN   1984   Oujarat Medium Irrigation                               -         156.30         31.49
S%F-20-IN  1984   Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric                            -         13.84         17.35
2416-ZN   1984   Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric                           17.43        -             8.53
241S-IN   1984   Madhya Pradesh FertiliZer                             167.10        -             0.94
2387-IN   1984   Nhava Sheva Port                                      250.00        -            19.26
S8-16-IN  1984   Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation                                       17.50          7.33
1426-ZN   1984   Population III                                          -          70.00          1.06
2417-IN   1984   Railways Electrification                              279.20        -            12.67
1424-ZN   194   Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.                             -          25.52         10.91
1454-IN   1984   Tawll Nadu Water Supply                                 -          36.50         19.04
S-12-I1l  1984   Tamil Nadu Water Supply                                -          36.50         10.93
1483-IN   1984   Upper Ganga Irrigation                                  -         105.43         28.94
1544-IN   1985   Bombay Urban Development                                -         100.92         25.75
2544-IN   1985   Chandrapur Thermal Power                              280.00        -            81.18
1613-IN   198S   Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric                            -          13.20         17.21
2498-IN   1985   Jbaria Coking Coal                                     57.70        -             2.42
2582-IN   1985   Kerala Power                                          176.00        -           124.22
1514-IN   1985   Kerala Social Forestry                                  -         27.12           3.14
2497-IN   1985   Namarda (Oujarat) Dam and Power                       200.00        -           16S.54
1523-ZN   1985   National Agric. Extension I                             -         33.02           0.42
2534-ZN   1985   National Highwayu                                     133.00        -            40.36
1611-IN   1985   National Social Forestry                                -        154.09           0.11
2555-IN   1985   RLhand Power Transmission                             202.00        -             8.81
1569-IN   1985   Second National Agricultural Ext.                       -         45.39          18.36
166S-IN   1986   Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation                            -        140.00         103.84
2662-IN   1986   Andhra Pradesh rI Irrigation                           41.00        -            41.00
2660-ZN   1986   Cement Industry                                       165.00        -            3S.71
2674-IN   1986   Combined Cycle Power                                  485.00        -            15.25
2730-IN   1986   Cooperative Fertilizer                                111.06        -             7.58
1643-IN   1986   Gujarat Urban                                           -         50.34          20.85
2661-IN   1986   ICICI - Cement InduStry                                35.00        -            10.92
1622-IN   1986   Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation                      -         21.80           7.71
1621-IN   1986   Mabarashtra Composite Irrigation                        -        160.00         169.40
1631-IN   1986   National Agricultural Research IS                       -         59.88          25.02
1619-IN   1986   West Bengal Minor Irrigation                            -         69.17          63.25
1623-IN   1986   West Bengal Population                                  -         45.85          11.23
1737-IN   1987   Bihar Tubewells                                         -         22.29           7.69
1750-IN   1987   Bomibay Water Supply & Sewerage III                     -        145.00          82.44
2769-IN   1987   BoMbay Water Supply & Sewerage III                     40.00        -            40.00
2796-IN   1987   Coal Mining & Quality Improvement                     340.00       -             96.59
1757-IN   1987   Gujarat Rural Roads                                     -        119.60          81.70
2827-IN   1987   Karnataka Power                                       260.00       -            180.52
2846-IN   1987   Madras Water Supply                                    53.00       -             32.97
1754-IN   1987   National Agric. Extension SSS                           -         70.18          31.35
2844-IN   1987   National Capital Power                                425.00       -            155.21
1770-IN   1987   National Water Management                               -        114.00          62.36
2785-ZN   1987   Oil India Petroleum                                   140.00       -             15.08



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
PACE 2 of 5
(net of cancellations)
Loan or   Fiscal Year                                                ..................................
Credit So.of *ppr  Purpose                                            SBRD       IDA l/ Undisbursed 2/
__ . _.._........ . ..___.... ...............  -.#._-_-___..............................................____. --------- .......... __._............__.
2B4S--N   1987   Talcher Thermal                                      375.00        -           243.06
2813-SN   1987   Telecommunications IX                                168.00        -             8.83
1700-ZN   1987   Uttar Pradesh Urban Development                        -        120.9S          62.44
1931-I2N   1988   Sombay & Madras Population                            _          57.00         16.S4
2928-SN   198S   Indus. Fin. & Tech. AMat.                            360.00                     5O.70
2938-IN   1988   Karnataka Power IS                                   220.00        -           178.31
1859-2N   1988   National Dairy  2                                      *        160.00           0.69
2893-Sn   1988   National Dairy II                                    200.00        -           200.00
2935-SN   1988   Railway Modernization III                            270.00        -            54.15
1923-ZN   2988   Tamil Nadu Urban Dov.                                           2 369.69       146.S3
3093-IN   1989   Electronics Industry Dev.                              8.00        -             ?.SO
3058-ZN   1909   Export Development                                   120.00        -            27.27
3094-2N   1989   lCICI - Electronics Ind. Dev.                        101.00        -            41.12
3059-SN   1989   ICici - Export Development                           175.00        -            83.94
3095-ZN   1989   SDB1 - Electronics Ind. Dev.                         101.00                     7S.65
3096-ZN   1989   Maharashtra Power                                    354.00        -           312.82
3024-IN   1989   Nathpa Jhakri Power                                  485.00        -           446.29
1952-IN   1989   National Seeds III                                     -        1SO.00          62.78
2022-ZN   1989   National Sericulture                                   -         147.00        102.19
2057-ZN   1989   Nat'l. Family Welfare  rng.                            -        113.30          94.63
3044-ZN   1989   Petroleum Transport                                  S.00         -            1S.00
2994-IN   1989   States Roads                                         170.00        -           170.00
1959-ZN   1989   States Roads                                           -          80.00         23.94
2010-ZN   1989   Upper Xrishna Irrigation IS                            -        160.00          99.71
3050-IN   1989   Upper Krishna Irrigation SS                           65.00        -            8S.00
2008-ZN   1969   Vocational Training                                    -        211.02         164.60
3196-ZN   1990   Cement Industry Restructuring                        300.00        -           213.26
2115-ZN   1990   Hyderabad Water Supply                                 -         79.90          56.31
2064-IN   1990   Industrial Technology Development                      -          SS.00         50.25
3119-ZN   1990   Industrial Technology Development                    14S.00        -            98.69
3237-ZN   1990   Northern Region Transmission                         485.00        -           449.97
2133-IN   1990   Population Training VIZ                                -          81.92         68.41
3339-ZN   1990   Private Power Utilities I (TIC)                       96.00        -            75.56
2076-ZN   1990   Punjab Irrigation/Drainage                             -        145.28         121.23
215-ZN   1990   Tamil Nadu integrated Nutrition 12                     -          86.15         77.06
2130-IN   1990   Technician Education I                                 -        210.74         169.36
2100-ZN   1990   Watershed Development (Hills)                          -          75.00         65.95
2131-IN   1990   Watershed Devtlopment (Plains)                         -         55.00          52.62
3260-ZN   1991   A.P. Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction                 40.00        -            40.00
2179-IN   1991   A.P. Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction                  -        170.00           9.20
2241-2N   1991   Dam Safety                                             -        130.00         122.68
3325-IN   1991   Dam Safety                                            23.00        -            23.00
3364-ZN   1991   Gas Flaring Reduction                                450.00       -            282.16
2173-ZN   1991   ICDS I (Orissa & Andhra Pradesh)                       -          96.00         83.45
3334-ZN   1991   Industrial Pollution Control                         124.00       -            107.06
2252-ZN   199l   industrial Pollution Control                           -         31.60          30.48
2234-ZN   1991   Maharashtra Rural Water Supply                         -        109.90          93.51
3259-IN   1991   Petrochemicals IZ                                    233.00        -           156.74
3258-ZN   1991   Petrochemicals It                                     12.00        -            11.00
3344-IN   1991   Private Power Utilities II (S3E)                     200.00       -            141.61
2215-IN   1991   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development                    -         92.80          76.88
3300-ZN   1991   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development                   20.00        -            20.00
2223-IN   1991   Technician Education  I                                -        307.10         271.55
2300-ZN   1992   Child Survival and Safe Motherhood                     -        214.50         176.01
2394-IN   1992   Family welfare (Urban Slums) *                         -         79.00          80.09
2328-N   1992   Maharashtra Forestry                                   -         124.00        116.48
2350-IN   1992   National AIDS Control                                  -         84.00          73.99
3436-IN   1992   Power Utilities Efficiency                           265.00        -           2S0.98
3498-IN   1992   Second Maharashtra Power *                           350.00        -           3SO.00
3470-ZN   1992   Second National Highway                              153.00        -           153.00
2365-ZN   1992   Second National Highway                                -        153.00         150.77
2329-IN   1992   Shrimp and Fish Culture                                -         85.00          83.39
2341-IN   1992   West Bengal Forestry                                   -         34.00          28.3S
2433-ZN   1993   Agricultural Development Rajasthn                      -        106.00          96.45
2439-ZN   1993   Bihar Plateau Development                              -        117.00         106.00



- 47 -
At=S 6
_..._.......
PA5E 3 of 5
US$ Millio
(net of cancellations)
Loan or   Fiscal Year                                               ..................................
Credit No.of Appr  Purpose                                           IURD      IDA 1/ Uhdisbursed 2/
2450-IN   1993  Jbaria Mine Fire Contxol *                             -         12.00          11.94
3577-YN  1993   NTPC Power grid                                      350.00       -           324.96
3544-IN  1993  Renewable Resources Development *                      75.00                    7S.00
2449-ZN   1993  Renewable Resources Deelopment *                       -        115.00        113 27
2409-IN   1993   Rubber *                                                        92.00         92.17
2470-IN  1993   Second integrated Child Dev.                           -        194.00        lS6.55
2448-ZN   1993   Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment                   -        S00.00        246.17
Total                                                     18025.7   19442.8        10500.90
of which bas been repaid                                   3793.8      966.0
Total now outstanding                                     14231.9   18476.8
Amount Sold                                                 133.8
of which has been repaid                                    133 .
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/                        14231.88  18476.80
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                            5503.7    4078.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ undisbursed amounts for SVR-denominated IDA Credits are derived as the undisbursed balance
expressed in SDR equivalents (in turn derived as the difference between the original principal
expressed in SOfs (based on the wechnge rate as established at the time of Credit negotiations)
and the cumulative disuseoments converted to SDR equivalents at the exchange rates prevailing
at the respective dates of disbursements less cancellations expressed in 8M equivalents converte
to US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar exchange rate in effect on June 30, 1992.
3/ Prior to exchange adjusment.
Not yet effective.



- 48 -
ASWEX 6
PAGE 4 OP S
S. STATEMENT OF IFC lSVE5VEtfE
.................._.____..._.._._....._________.........
(AS of March 31. 1993)
Amount (USS million)
Fiscal Year           company                                                L.an      Equity     Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.                                   1.S0         --      1.50
1959-92        Kirloakar Oil Engines Ltd.                                     0.65        --      o.8s
1960           ASsam Sillimanite Ltd.                                         1.36                1.36
1961           x.8.a. Pumps Ltd.                                              0.21        --      0.21
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.                                  0.65      0.38      1.03
1964           Fort Glocter Industries Ltd.                                   0.81      0.40      1.21
1964           Lakihcei Machine Works Ltd.                                    0.96      0.36      1.32
1964-75-79/90  Mabindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.                                 11.81      2.84     14.65
1967           Indian Explosives Ltd.                                         8.60      2.86     11.46
1967           Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                                        1.05      0.10      1.15
1969-70        Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                                    13.15       3.76     18.91
1971-57        Escorts Limited                                               15.55        --     15.55
1978-67/91/93  Housaing Development Finance Corp.                           106.32      2.10    108.42
1980/82/87/89  Deepak Fertilizer and Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.50      4.23     11.73
1981-62 .      Wagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.                                    1.50      0.24      1.74
1961-82        Nagarjuna Steels Limited                                      2.9r.    0.24        3.12
1981-S6-89     Tata Iran and Steel Company Ltd.                              72.14;    24.50     96.64
1981-90/93     Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.                                     29.71       9.30     39.01
1982           Ashok Leyland Limited                                         28.00.       -      28.00
1982           Coromandel Fertilizers Limited                                15.88        --    15.88
1982           The Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. Ltd.                  18.80  ..  --    16.80
1982-87        1IW Signode                                                    2.99      1.01      4.00
1982-87        The Indian Rayon Cozp. Ltd.                                   14.57        --     14.57
1983           Bharat Forge Company Ltd.                                     15.90        --     15.90
19a4-s6        The Owalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       1S.9S        --    15.95
i985           Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                              23.93         --    23.93
198S           Motdi Cement                                                  13.05        --     13.05
1985-66/90-91  India Lease Development Ltd.                                   8.50      0.78      9.28
1985/91        Bihar -S,  ne                                                 15.24      0.68     15.92
196            Baajj *empo Liimted                                          30.54         --     30.54
1986/93        India Equipment Leasing Ltd.                                   S.So      0.30      S.80
1986           Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                                       21.78         --    21.78
1986-87        The Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd.                        8.00     13.89     21.69
1987           Export-Import Bank of India                                  14.34         --    14.34
1987           Gujarat Fusion Glass Ltd.                                      7.52      1.70      9.22
1987           Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizer                             38.07        --     38.07
1987           Hero Ronda Motors Ltd.                                         7.74        --      7.74
1987           Nindustan Motors Ltd.                                         39.14        __     39.14
1987           She Oujarat Rural Housing Finance Corp.                          --      0.19      0.19
1987           Wimco Limited                                                  4.70        --      4.70
1987-69/90     Titan Watches Limited                                        22.02       1.08     23.10
1988           level Tranamissions Ltd.                                         --      1.07      1.07
1989           Ahmedabad Electricity Company, Ltd.                          20.83         --     20.83
1989           WST Advanced Technology                                          --      0.20      0.20
1989-90        Xeltron Telephone Instruments, Ltd.                              --      0.56      0.56
1989-92        Gujarat State Fertiliser                                      40.42        --    40.42
1990           JSB India Securities Firms                                       --      0.37      0.39
1990           UCAL Fuel Systems Ltd.                                           --      0.63      0.63
1990-91        Tata Electric                                                111.68        --    111.88
1991           ATIC Industries Export riance                                  0.26        --      0.28
1991           Bombay Electric                                               68.00        --     68.00
1991           CESC Ltd.                                                     22.34        --    22.34
1991           Export Finance - APDC                                          0.35        --      0.35
1991           Herdilla Oxides and Electronics Ltd.                             --      0.29      0.29
1991           Indust. Credit & Investment Corp. of India                       --     26.60     26.60
1991/93        Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services                   15.00      4.64     19.64
19n            TOICI Development Finance Companies                              --      2.05      2.05
1991           Triveni Pool Intairdril Ltd. (PFIL)                              --      0.93      0.93
1991           Varun Transport. Storage a Comunications                      17.04      3.06     20.10
1992           Arvind Mills                                                  22.13      7.81     29.94



- 49 -
a= 6
lG 5 0? 5
-                                       ..*.*e      *~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  .....
...........    ................ ............ ..................., ....   .    ....      ......... ...... ...... ..
1l93           aloft 0u -06-v                                                    -         .ao      s.ao
a9n2           son                                 --                                     1.01      1.01
s9o2           "tau Nm     a                                                   *.*                  0.66
1932           pip8 VW                                                        40.0        5.77     45.7
19#            sw Use                                                         1.50          --     11.50
19*)           aedtmp1ta1 W                                                      -.       0.51      0.51
1993                                                                            .00cco-   0.2st     s.a
lOMi. own  oGSZIT                                            1024.14    3)4.89   1159.03
* ........... i ........  ........
Ias  Oanellt.  SOiSsim, Useba
M~uat.mte. UspeymOta. ug         f S ee    les                      502.42      25.57    531.39
am  .1  by hC                                                    521.72    1OS.32    627.4
awn.... Meoe.i    m..
125.31     31.29    1S6.50



