                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32130

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-26170)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.1 MILLION
                                   (US$ 65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                       THE REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                                 FOR A

                                   TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT




                                              June 20, 2005




Transport Sector
Country Department 15
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 1994 - December 31, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                  1CFAF = US$ 0.0016
                                 US$ 1.00 = CFAF 600
                US$ 1.00 = CFAF 602.4 (average during project life)
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 to  December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABEDA   - Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
ADM     - Aéroports du Mali (Mali Airports)
ASECNA  - Agency for the Safety of Aerial Navigation in Africa and Madagascar
BOAD    - Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement (West African Development Bank)
CEAO    - Communauté Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (West African Economic
          Community)
CFD     - Caisse Française de Développement (French Development Fund)
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Agency
CIF     - Cost, Insurance and Freight (border point price)
CMDT    - Compagnie Malienne de Développement des Textiles (Malian Textile
          Development Company)
CNREX   - Centre National de Recherche et d'Expérimentation pour le Bâtiment et les
          Travaux Publics (National Construction and Public Works Research and
          Experimentation Center)
COMANAV - Compagnie Malienne de Navigation (Malian Navigation Company)
CPTP    - Centre de Perfectionnement des Transports et des Travaux Publics
          (Transportation and Public Works Training Center)
DGTSP   - Declaration of General Transport Sector Policy
DNAC    - Direction Nationale de l'Aéronautique Civile (National Directorate of Civil
          Aviation)
DNT     - Direction Nationale des Transports (National Directorate of Transportation)
DNTP    - Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (National Directorate of Public
          Works)
EIB     - European Investment Bank
ERR     - Economic Rate of Return
FAC     - Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (French Aid Agency)
FAD     - Fonds Africain de Développement (African Development Fund)
FED     - Fonds Européen de Développement (European Development Fund)
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
INFET   - Institut National de Formation de l'Equipement et des Transports (National
          Training Institute for Equipment and Transport)
IsDB    - Islamic Development Bank
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding

MALITAS - Mali Timbuktu Air Service
MET     - Ministère de l 'Equipement et des Transports (Ministry of Equipment and
          Transportation)
ONT     - Office National des Transports (National Transport Office)
OPEC    - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
RCFM    - Régie du Chemin de Fer du Mali (Mali Railways)
SDR     - Special Drawing Rights
SMTP    - Service à Matériel des Travaux Publics (Public Works Equipment Service)
SNCS    - Société Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sénéga (Senegal Railways)
SRR     - Service de Renforcement des Routes (Roads Strengthening Service)
TIF     - Transport International Ferroviaire (International Rail Transport)
TOR     - Terms of Reference
TRIE    - Transport Routier Inter-Etats (Inter-State Road Transport)
TSC     - Transport Sector Committee
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program




                          Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
                        Country Director    A. David Craig
                         Sector Manager     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                     Task Team Leader:      Jean-Noel Guillossou

                                                  MALI
                                    MALI TRANSPORT SECTOR


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
     6. Sustainability                                                                18
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
     9. Partner Comments                                                              23
     10. Additional Information                                                       28
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
Map: Transport Network of Mali (Ref. IBRD 25497)

Project ID: P001730                                                  Project Name: ML TRANSPORT SECTOR
Team Leader: Jean-Noel Guillossou                                    TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ML TRANSPORT SECTOR                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-26170
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (74%); Railways (17%); General transportation
                            sector (9%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/01/1988                                     Effective: 10/06/1994                04/13/1995
     Appraisal: 05/05/1994                                         MTR:                             02/23/1998
      Approval: 05/26/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALI/MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:      BOAD, FAD, FED, IsDB, Canada, France, Germany, EIB, OPEC

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 K. Marshall
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Noel Guillossou                           Abdelghani Inal
ICR Primary Author:             Aoufa Ezzine; Jean-Noel
                                Guillossou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 Preamble
Mali began its adjustment effort in 1988 and has since implemented a wide range of economic reforms
aiming at liberalization of the regulatory framework and increased competition in the transport industry. To
bring the transport sector in line with the Government's macro-economic adjustment reforms, the then
Ministry of Equipment and Housing (Ministère de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat) decided in early 1991 to
set up a Transport Sector Committee (TSC) which brought together all the sector's operators, public and
private, in a first-ever attempt to bring a participatory approach in identifying key sectoral problems and
developing solutions. The TSC prepared a draft Declaration of General Transport Sector Policy (DGTSP).
DGTSP was fully discussed with IDA and formally adopted by Government on November 2, 1993. The
Policy introduced fundamental changes in the sector objectives in five major areas. It pledged the
Government's commitment (a) to encourage competitiveness and give a bigger role to the private sector in
the transport and public works industries; (b) to restructure public enterprises, particularly the public
railways (Régie des Chemins de Fer du Mali, RCFM) and to replace force account works in the highway
sector, including for road maintenance, with works by contract; (c) to use economic criteria in transport
investment choices; (d) to give infrastructure maintenance the highest priority in resource allocation; and
(e) to take more responsibility for rural roads, in particular, and the environment, in general. The new
strategy was discussed fully in the Mali Transport Sector Memorandum (Report No. 12095-MLI, green
cover issued in October, 1993).

DGTSP next translated these general objectives into a series of more detailed sub-objectives, all geared
towards a smooth operation of the sector and boosting its efficiency at all levels and over all sub-sectors:
(a) raising the efficiency of the transport sector administration by redefining its functions and reorganizing
and modernizing its services; (b) improving the efficiency of international transport corridors; (c) stepping
up competition between land freight modes (rail and road); (d) absorbing the surplus capacity of the
trucking industry; (e) restructuring public enterprises to upgrade their performance by making them fully
commercially viable; (f) upgrading road maintenance by reorganizing its agencies and work methods and
allocating adequate resources; (g) improving infrastructure cost recovery; (h) substantially increasing
attention to rural transport; and (i) enhancing transport safety, particularly in passenger transport. To
achieve these sub-objectives, DGTSP proposed a series of institutional, organizational, regulatory and
financial measures and restructuring of public enterprises. All these measures were agreed upon by the
Government and IDA.

Thus, the Government approach in the transport sector was designed along the following lines:

(a)      Design of a transport sector program which places transport development in a policy-based,
sector-wide framework developed by the Government and supported by all donors: Government and IDA
cooperated closely in carrying out joint economic and sector work to analyze issues and devise action plans
to restore sector efficiency. The Government then called a meeting of donors to discuss the strategy and
solicit donors' support to implement it over the next five-year period.
(b)      The necessity of implementing policy reforms through a coordinated investment Program: This
kept the focus on the broad sectoral and development objectives, particularly where economic and financial
ministries were concerned, to resolve critical issues related to sector financing and strategic policy-setting
such as restructuring of public enterprises and increasing the role of the private sector. The proposed
program and project investments were geared directly toward attaining the goals set out in the DGTSP; and



                                                     - 2 -

(c)      As part of the policy reforms implementation, the need to carefully define the mechanism to
allocate resources to routine maintenance and to ensure quick payment of local contractors, if the
development and strengthening of the role of the private sector was to succeed: This required the
reorganization of the public administration and a revolution in the way of thinking the role of the public and
the private sectors in the execution of road maintenance works and in the provision of transport services.

3.1.2 Original objectives
The objectives of the Program, from the Staff Appraisal Report (para. 4.3), were: (a) to strengthen the
sector management and performance through reorganization and local capacity building; (b) to restructure
the transport sector's parastatals; (c) to modify the regulatory and institutional framework in order to
promote increased private sector participation in provision of services and the execution of works; (d) to
rehabilitate and maintain a priority network of transport infrastructure; and (e) to improve the transport
operations efficiency and reduce transport costs.

The main objective of the Project as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (schedule 2) was to assist
the Borrower (Republic of Mali) in improving the sectoral efficiency and rehabilitating and maintaining the
essential transport infrastructure.

The Program and project objectives were in line with the DGTSP's objectives for the whole sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The program had the following four components, IDA participating in the financing of the first three:

(a) a capacity building and training component focusing on support to the implementation of sector policy
measures, the modernization of sector administration, the reorganization of transport services, and in
particular the liberalization of the transport industry, the reorganization of road maintenance institutions,
work methods and resources allocation mechanisms, the restructuring of public enterprises and the
improvement of the efficiency of international transport corridors;

(b) a road component focusing on (i) routine maintenance of a priority network of 9,000 km; (ii) periodic
maintenance of 778 km of paved roads, 818 km of earth roads and 615 km of classified tracks, and
rehabilitation of 383 km of paved roads, 857 km of earth roads and 660 km of classified tracks in the north.
The IDA project was to finance periodic maintenance/rehabilitation of 413 km of paved roads and 188 km
of earth roads; (iii) the improvement of 500 km of rural tracks outside the main agricultural areas, and the
purchase of four ferries to serve zones that lack reliable road access. The IDA project was to finance 123
km of rural tracks and the procurement of two ferries; (iv) the implementation of specific works to improve
the environment and safety along selected project roads; (v) the improvement of Bamako's main urban road
system; (vi) technical studies and supervision; and (vii) the purchase of equipment for routine road
maintenance;

(c) a railway component focusing on (i) studies, supervision of works and technical assistance to improve
traffic organization and set up new bodies to facilitate technical and commercial integration of international
freight and passenger services with the Senegal railways (SNCS); (ii) execution of the first tranche of a
10-year track rehabilitation program, and the transfer of the freight terminal from Bamako to Korofina, (iii)
improvement of the telecommunication system, (iii) purchase of three medium capacity locomotives and
rehabilitation of equipment; and (iv) rehabilitation of logistical equipment. The IDA project was to finance



                                                     - 3 -

studies and technical assistance, construction of the Bamako-Korofina terminal and the acquisition of
ballast for the track rehabilitation program; and

(d) an airport component to finance (i) installation of safety equipment at the Timbuktu airport; (ii)
improvements in the Bamako airport consisting of building a fence around the airport; and (iii) technical
studies for possible future investment programs for airports in case of an acceptable rate of return and
favorable macro-economic context. This component was fully financed by other donors as initially decided
at appraisal.

3.4 Revised Components:
No changes were made to the Project components during implementation.

Near the end of the project, the Credit Agreement was amended to on lend CFAF 1 billion to the railway
concessionnaire Transrail to finance telecommunication equipment and materials for rehabilitation of the
railway track and rolling stock. A new category (2.C.) was added accordingly.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of entry of the Project is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:

The project objectives were consistent with the Government's DGTSP and remained consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) that were adopted during its period of implementation. These
underscored the following priority needs for Mali: development and rehabilitation of basic productive
infrastructure, promotion of human resources and private sector development, institutional capacity
building, improvement in macroeconomic management and improvement in environmental management.
Indeed the Transport Sector Project was an important part of the Bank's CAS for Mali since it allowed
improved access to, and efficiency of, transport services, which are critical for ensuring a quick and strong
supply response and stimulating growth.

Project design
Project design was sound and based on a thorough analysis of all sub-sectors (Transport Sector
Memorandum, October 1993) carried out by the Government and IDA and discussed with donors. It
reflected satisfactorily the sector objectives as stated in the DGTSP, and consisted in a mix of policy
reforms and investments. The project design was not modified at the mid-term review.

Project preparation
While project preparation gave priority to policy dialogue and succeeded in agreeing with the Government
to a comprehensive set of policy reforms, the investment aspects of the project were not ready for
implementation. This has been a common feature of most transport sector projects prepared during that
period, with priority given to policy dialogue rather than to physical aspects of the proposed project and
projects being presented to the Board after an agreement was reached with the Government on key policy
issues and reforms with physical investments not yet ready for implementation. Disbursement forecasts in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were too optimistic in this respect as disbursements started during the
second quarter of FY97, one year and a half later than expected in the SAR. Policy dialogue is not easy and
makes it difficult to coordinate the various timetables for reaching an agreement with the Government on
policy issues, preparing implementation of an investment program and presenting a project to the Board. In
view of the importance of reaching an agreement on policy issues and formally translating this agreement
into a project presented to the Board as an incentive for the Government to move forward on the policy
agenda, it is considered acceptable that the physical component of the project was less well prepared and its
implementation began with delays. This strategy was successful as demonstrated by the reform and



                                                      - 4 -

physical achievements of the project. For these reasons, the rating of the project preparation is maintained
satisfactory.

Project preparation was short in analyzing procurement constraints and the administration capacity and as
a result too optimistic again with respect to implementation schedule.

Risks identified
The risks associated with implementing reform were clearly identified.

The risk of insufficient funds for road maintenance was extremely high, although it was first mitigated by
the set up of specific deposit procedures and lately by the creation of a Road Fund and road user charges.
At the mid-term review in 1998, agreement was reached to set up a road fund, which was effectively
created in 2000 and became operational in 2002.

The risk linked to not contracting out road maintenance was high, and properly identified since the
Government was initially reluctant to contract out to private contractors. It is only in 2003, after the initial
closing date, that road works were completely transferred to private contractors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The rating for achievement of the project development objectives is satisfactory since most of the objectives
have been substantially achieved as explained below:

(a)      to strengthen the sector management and performance through reorganization and local
capacity building:
With regard to strengthening the sector management and performance, the project objectives were
substantially achieved:

- The duration to deliver transport titles has been reduced from one month to fifteen days and the number
of cars re-registered significantly increased, which contributed to the reduction of fraud related to vehicle
acquisition: 143,118 cars were re-registered during the project life while only 26,000 were planned at
appraisal. This was achieved thanks to the computerization of the central and regional services of the
Department of Transport since 1996 and 2001 respectively.

- Technical quality of vehicles improved. The annual number of cars subject to technical control
significantly increased: 69,988 cars were inspected in 2004 while it was planned at appraisal that only
8,000 would be inspected annually. This was the result of the creation in 1995 of a Control Center for
vehicle inspection, its operation by a private operator complemented by a change in regulation.

- Road and accidents statistics reports have been published annually since 1994. Regulatory texts and
technical documents are disseminated regularly and are aimed at professionalizing the transport industry
by providing it with basic and operational information related to road transport. A Transport Observatory
was set up in 1994. Its role is currently limited however since it only disseminates information. Its impact
would be improved by expanding its role to analyzing the data it disseminates.

- Road safety has improved thanks to the following activities during project implementation: (i) revision
and implementation of a new traffic code and new regulation such as transportation of hazardous material,
special convoys, road signs, penalties for violations; (ii) road safety and user sensitization campaigns by



                                                     - 5 -

teaching the Highway Code in schools and providing specialized training to 45 road transporters, 81
driving schools instructors and examiners; and (iii) increased technical inspection of vehicles as mentioned
above improving the quality of the vehicles running on the roads. Collection of data accidents in Bamako
has improved since a database on accidents (BAAC, Bulletin d'Analyse des Accidents Corporels) was put
in place in 1997. Data collection decreased in 2000 and 2001 due to turnover of police officers but
significantly improved again in 2004 (470 accidents were reported compared to 46 in 2000 and 2001, 215
in 2002 and 174 in 2003).

- In 2002, a road data bank was set up in the Highway Department. In 2004, data on road condition were
available for 12,576 km of roads, compared to 6,000 km expected at appraisal. A Road Statistics Service,
replacing the Road Data Bank, was set up in the National Highway Directorate (Direction Nationale des
Routes- DNR) in 2002 to establish, in addition to providing and analyzing data on road condition, a road
maintenance programming system to define priorities for routine maintenance. Local capacity was
strengthened on road maintenance programming. 15 staff from the DNR were trained on the use of the
model in 1999 and the model has been used by DNR staff since. During the TSP, the model has been used
for routine maintenance only. The ongoing Transport Corridors Improvement Project (TCIP) is providing
support to link the model to an economic tool to be used for periodic maintenance.

- Capacity of local contractors was strengthened through training offered under the project. This facilitated
the transition from road maintenance by force account to execution by contract completed in 2003.
Capacity of local staff in programming of road maintenance was strengthened as well. The Ministry of
Equipment's training center (CPTP) was restructured into INFET in 2001 to introduce commercial-type
management and provide private-oriented training. INFET provided training on road maintenance
management, planning and execution, road safety, procurement and disbursement procedures to 625
trainees of which 350 from the private sector. 345 staff from the public and private sector were trained
locally and abroad on road maintenance works.

- The National Department of Highway (i.e., Direction Nationale des Routes - DNR) was restructured in
2002 so that its mission is to plan road works and not execute them anymore;

- A Road Fund was set up in 2000 and became operational in 2002. It was created based on the principles
set up for second generation road funds agreed between the IMF and the World Bank. The Government
decided to create the Fund when it realized that the main constraint to contracting out road maintenance
execution was sustained and quick availability of financing, as private companies and especially SMEs
would not bear the risk of delayed Government payments.

(b) to restructure the transport sector parastatal: The project contributed to the following restructuring:

- A Public International Railway Company (SETI) was created but then liquidated because of coordination
problems with the Malian and Senegalese railway companies. The Governments of Mali and Senegal
decided then to privatize the railway operations and to dissolve RCFM. A Concessionaire was selected in
February 2003. The concession agreement was signed on September 29, 2003 and the concessionaire
started its operations on October 1st, 2003.

- The public works equipment leasing company was privatized into SLMTP (Société de Location de
Matériel des Transports publics) that was dissolved briefly after its creation because of managerial
problems and obsolete condition of equipment transferred from the public works department.




                                                    - 6 -

- COMANAV, the public river transport company, was restructured in 1994, as planned in the DGPST.

- Air Mali was liquidated in 2003. In November 2003, the Government launched a new procedure to create
a new national airline and select a strategic partner which would become a majority shareholder. The new
partner was designated in February 2005.

- The Government launched twice a procedure to privatize the management of Malian airports but both
procedures failed. The Bank is considering providing support to a third procedure under the Mali Growth
Support Project under preparation.

(c) to modify the regulatory and institutional framework in order to promote increased private sector
participation in the provision of services and execution of works: The project achieved this objective
since:

- The vehicle inspection activities have been contracted out to a private contractor, Mali Technic System
since 1995.

- The ongoing restructuring study of the Land Transport Department will examine the possibility of
transferring some activities of the Department to the private sector, such as those of the Shipper's Council (
Conseil Malien des Chargeurs), which was created in 1999.

- The creation of the Road Fund provided a framework which promoted private sector participation in the
execution of road works. This reform was not initially envisaged under the project and was decided at the
mi-term review in May 1998. Since 2003, all road maintenance works are being executed by contract.
Therefore, the target of 75 percent of road maintenance works executed by contract as defined in the
project appraisal document is exceeded.

- As already explained, railway operations were privatized. The Concession Monitoring Committee
composed equally of government and representatives of the concessionaire was created in September 2004.
Its first meeting is expected to be held during the second quarter of 2005 after the financial statements of
Transrail for 2004 are approved by the Board of Directors of Transrail end of April 2005. The unit to
monitor the concession was created in September 2003. It is currently staffed and has started to operate.

(d) to rehabilitate and maintain a priority network of transport infrastructure:

The program of periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of paved roads, earth roads and tracks executed
during the period of the project implementation contributed to the achievement of this objective, as it
covered 3,229 km (2,173 km for periodic maintenance versus 2,211 km planned, and 1,056 km for
rehabilitation versus 1,900 km planned). A 2002 assessment of the road network condition found that 59
percent of paved roads, 69 percent of earth roads and 10 percent of tracks were in good to passable
condition. This compares to 88 percent, 53 percent and 52 percent in 1995. This result is satisfactory for
earth roads taking into account that: (i) on most of the network, the level of traffic is low and that there is
no need to have the entire network in good condition; and (ii) road maintenance resources provided under
the national budget have been mostly below the estimated needs. Road maintenance results are
unsatisfactory for tracks, as a result of insufficient resources allocated to their maintenance. Resources
were allocated on an ad-hoc manner to respond to emergency situations. The Government has allocated
resources to maintenance of tracks in the cotton area only since 2003 after the Malian cotton company
stopped its involvement in road maintenance. This justifies the need for a new rural transport strategy being
established under the on-going National Rural Infrastructure Program financed by the Bank.


                                                    - 7 -

For paved roads, the situation has deteriorated since 1995. Two reasons explain this situation: (a) although
budget resources allocated to routine maintenance were in line with targets agreed at appraisal, they
remained insufficient compared to the needs until 2003 when they almost doubled; (b) most donors'
resources were allocated to paving of new roads resulting in lack of resources for periodic maintenance.
This justifies the program of works for 2005-2007 on Bamako-Bougouni, Bougouni-Sikasso, and
Sévaré-Gao financed by the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the West Africa Development
Bank. After these roads are maintained by 2007, and if roads in good condition do not deteriorate, 85
percent of the paved road network would be in good or fair condition. The most recent data in 2004, based
on a different network than in 2002 however, resulting from the revised classification adopted in 2004,
indicate that 82 percent of paved roads and 34 percent of earth roads and tracks are in good, fair or
passable condition. Both percentages show an improvement compared to 2002 (respectively 59 percent and
27 percent) resulting from the pavement of new roads and addition of paved urban roads to the network as
well as construction or rehabilitation of earth roads such as under the National Rural Infrastructure
Program.

(e) to improve the transport operations efficiency and reduce transport costs:

The achievement of previous objectives contributed to the achievement of the sub-objective related to
transport operations efficiency. Delivery time for vehicles license has decreased from one month to two
weeks. In 2004, the Government decided to exempt the purchase of new trucks from customs duties. About
400 new trucks were purchased and started to operate on the regional corridors to provide additional road
transport capacity in view of the constraints resulting from the crisis in Côte d'Ivoire since 1999. The
impact of this measure remains however to be assessed in view of its fiscal consequences and concerns
expressed by the IMF.

As a result from the railway concession, railway traffic has increased to 465,000 tons in 2004 compared to
250,000 tons in 2003 and 2002, and 300,000 tons in 2001. Rail tariffs being lower than road tariffs, and if
this tendency remains, this increase in rail traffic contributes to reduce transport costs for shippers. On the
other side, passenger traffic has significantly reduced as a result of the suppression of services for safety
reasons after railway operations were concessioned. The Government is in the process of building a new
road to service villages along the railway track and replace rail passenger services.

The sub-objective to reduce transport cost has been partially achieved for road transport since they
decreased by 3% on earth roads, which have seen their condition improve, but at the same time have
increased by 9% on paved roads and by 11% on tracks since their condition deteriorated between 1995 and
2002. Overall, road transport cost on the whole network globally increased by a total 7 percent during the
period however. The following tables give the detailed vehicle operating costs for both years.

Table: Average Operating cost on the whole network (FCFA/km) - All vehicles considered

          Year              Paved Roads            Earth Roads               Tracks               Total Cost
          1995                  561.7                  932.9                 1400.6                 721.8
            2002                612.6                   902.6                 1561.5                776.6
        1995 - 2002              9%                     -3%                    11%                    7%




                                                      - 8 -

Table: Average Operating cost on the whole network (FCFA/Ton-km) - Freight only

          Year                Paved Roads         Earth Roads              Tracks              Total Cost
          1995                    55.9                104.5                 204.1                   82.0
            2002                  61.0                101.1                 227.6                   88.3
       1995 - 2002                9%                   -3%                   11%                    7%



4.2 Outputs by components:
Refer to Annex 2 on project costs by component.

Component A (Capacity building component)

Subcomponent A.1.Project management unit
This subcomponent provided, as planned, technical assistance to the Project Coordination Unit during
project startup to develop the monitoring system for the sector program. It also financed operating costs of
the unit. The total cost of the subcomponent was CFAF 722 million (US$ 1.2 million).

Subcomponent A.2. Training
This subcomponent was supposed to support operation of the public works training center CPTP to train
locally and abroad administration staff and private contractors' personnel on various topics such as road
maintenance planning and rehabilitation, vehicles maintenance and repair and safety. The training was
aimed at 800 trainees in the SAR.

625 trainees of which 350 from the private sector benefited from the training program, for a total cost of
CFAF 1,036 million (US$ 1.7 million), slightly more than estimated at appraisal (CFAF 960 million).
Therefore, the target of 800 trainees could not be met since budget was already exceeded.

Subcomponent A.3. Capacity management development of the Land Transport Department
Technical assistance was provided as planned to the Land Transport Department (DNT) to strengthen its
general studies and planning capacity and to develop its role as transport monitoring agency through
reorganization and computerization of DNT's units. A monitoring unit, the Transport Observatory, was
created in 1995. To reinforce the outputs and to ensure more financial autonomy, the Observatory was set
up in affiliation to the DNT in 1999. It has published transport and accident statistics annually, as well as
regulatory texts and a "Thesaurus" explaining to all transport actors the preliminaries and definitions of all
terms related to transport. Data were compiled in an electronic format (although more editing efforts would
be needed to make the reports on regulatory texts more readable, under Word format for example and not
just scanned as it is currently the case).

Vehicle registration (grey card) was computerized in 1997, with a two-year delay. Grey cards are renewed
every five years with a mandatory annual inspection for individual vehicles and a bi-annual one for
commercial vehicles. Vehicle inspection was contracted out to Mali Technic System, a private contractor,
in 1995. The traffic code was revised and road safety and road user sensitization was promoted through
teaching of the highway Code in schools, and provision of specialized training for driving school instructors
and driving test examiners.

Several studies were undertaken (see list in Annex 7) and contributed to concrete actions taken by the
Administration. A recent study evaluated the performance of the vehicle inspection center, Mali Technic
System, based on which its contract was renewed. The study on DNT archives resulted in setting up a



                                                    - 9 -

documentation center to sustain the department's memory and make it available to the public. A study was
carried out under the project to update the road rehabilitation and maintenance strategy. Its results were
taken into account in the preparation of a medium-term expenditure framework for the transport sector,
which provided the basis for the preparation of the 2005 budget. The European Community is financing a
study to prepare a five-year investment plan as part of the preparation of their next program. The results of
the study, which started under the TSP, will be available mid-2005.

A study on river transport identified regulatory and institutional problems to which the sub-sector is
confronted, including rural river transport sector, and led to the restructuring of COMANAV. A study on
trucks drivers training resulted in the set up of a training center for candidates to drive heavy trucks
requiring type E and D licenses. The study undertaken on the trucking industry defined an action plan to
promote competition among Malian transporters.

The final cost of this subcomponent remained almost the same than estimated at appraisal, at CFAF 683
million (US$ 1.1 million).

Subcomponent A.4. Capacity management development of the public works department
This subcomponent aimed at improving road maintenance management and financing by planning road
maintenance works and allocating dedicated funds. This was achieved since:

- The project provided support to Mali's road sector management reforms following the 1998 mid-term
review. The findings of the sector audit carried out before the review pointed that routine maintenance
works were below planned level, and works by force account were facing delays in execution due to lack of
availability of funds, equipment obsolescence and delayed government payments. Therefore, and in
consultation with all the donors, the Government took three critical and courageous decisions: (i) to
restructure the DNR to shift its mission to planning and stop execution of road maintenance works by force
account; (ii) to create a Road Fund, which would facilitate road funding disbursements as well as increase
the efficiency of Malian private public works companies as stable and long-term financing would now be
made available to them; and (iii) to create a Contracting Agency for Road Maintenance (AGEROUTE)
which would complete the intended reform of the road sector management by centralizing into one single
entity the role of managing execution by contract of routine and periodic road maintenance. The creation of
this agency was ratified by the National Assembly in December 2004 and the Director General was
appointed in May 2005. As long as AGEROUTE is not operational, supervision of road periodic and
routine maintenance execution continues to be handled in part by two other supervision agencies; namely
the Executing Agency for Public Works ­ or AGETIPE ­ and the Executing Agency for Rural
Infrastructure Works and Equipment ­ or AGETIER. For now, it is unclear whether these two road
contracting agencies will be kept "as is" once the AGEROUTE is fully operational. It is likely that part of
the answer to this question will come from the level of efficiency that the AGEROUTE will achieve once it
becomes operational.

- Since December 2002, the National Department of Highway (i.e., Direction Nationale des Routes -
DNR) focuses on the task of defining the country's road development policy and elaborating the country's
road routine and periodic maintenance program. As an oversight agency for road maintenance works, DNR
works closely with the "Service des Données Routières" (i.e., Road Statistics Service), a service that
replaced the Road Data Bank, in order to assess road maintenance priorities throughout the country. Its
annual maintenance program is submitted for approval to the Board of Directors of the Road Fund. A
routine maintenance programming software was developed and has been used to plan the routine
maintenance works but this program should be linked to an economic planning tool to use it to plan
periodic maintenance works. This will be done during the ongoing TCIP.


                                                    - 10 -

- The Road Fund became operational in July 2002 and was set up to channel maintenance funds through
the allocation of (i) an axle load charge paid by trucks using Mali's road network; (ii) a fuel levy on
petroleum products; (iii) toll fees charged on selected road segments; and (iv) funds from the Government
special investment budget. Of these four sources of financing, the Government special investment budget,
the axle load charge and the fuel levy were in place in 2004. Toll fees are expected to be collected on the
main roads in Mali by early 2006.

The total budget for the Road Fund is projected to increase from FCFA 5.6 billion (i.e., or about USD 11.8
million) in 2003 to FCFA 13 billion (i.e., or about USD 24.8 million) in 2007, as committed by the
Government in its program with the European Union and in its 2004 DGTSP. This sizeable increase in the
road maintenance budget (i.e., +108% between 2003 and 2008) will be made possible primarily by the
planned increase in the road user charge on petroleum products from FCFA 3/liter in 2004 to FCFA
14/liter in 2007. By that date, road user charges will generate about 40 percent of the agency's projected
budget while the Government budget special investment funds' share of that same total will shrink to less
than 60 percent. The primary impact, therefore, will be to increase significantly the percentage of total
routine and periodic maintenance expenditures self-financed from less than 52% in 2002 to about 89% by
2007 (assuming 2002 spending levels are maintained). This lower reliance on external donors and
Government's budget should ensure greater stability and sustainability of road expenditures.

In 2005, however, the Government did not increase the road maintenance budget and the road user charge
on petroleum products. This decision was taken for several reasons: (a) macro-economic impact of the
locust attack in 2004; (b) impact of the Côte d'Ivoire social upheaval; (c) impact of the increase of the
world price of petroleum products; and (d) impact of the depreciation of the US dollar vis-à-vis the Euro,
which has a constant exchange rate with the CFAF currency. The Bank expressed its concern on the impact
of this decision on the road network and recommended, in agreement with the IMF, that road maintenance
resources and the road user charge be increased in the revised Finance Law envisaged for the second
semester of 2005.

The total cost of this subcomponent was CFAF 350 million instead of CFAF 600 million because the
Government did not finance its part (CFAF 120 million) and the purchase of weighing stations to control
vehicles' weight (and therefore collect revenues from infractions) was finally counted in the Road
component activities and not in this component as planned initially.

Subcomponent A.5. Audit Compliance Program.
As planned at appraisal, this subcomponent financed annual audits for the Project.

Component B ( Road component)

Subcomponent B.1.Routine maintenance
This subcomponent was executed as planned. It was supposed to ensure that the Government finance and
maintain annually 9,000 km of roads (routine maintenance), with 75% of works done by private
contractors at project completion. The Government started to comply with this commitment in 1996, with a
two years delay. That year, the Government provided more resources to routine maintenance than what was
estimated at appraisal, probably to execute the works that had not been financed in 1995. Total routine
maintenance has been financed for the most part by the Government for an amount of CFAF 42.8 billion
during the project life (total amount was CFAF 44 billion, the difference being financed by FED). Since the
project life was twice that expected at appraisal, the resources spent during the period of project execution
correspond to twice the planned amount for routine maintenance (CFAF 20 billion).



                                                    - 11 -

Table: Routine maintenance expenditures (in US$ millions)
        1995             1996             1997             1998             1999                 Total
 Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal: Actual: Actual
                                                                                      1995-19991995-19991995-2004
   6.1       2.1    6.5       9.7     6.9      6.2     7        7.2      7.2      7     33.7      32.2     73
  3,660     1,293  3,900     5,834  4,140     3,745  4,200     4,331   4,320    4,214  20,220    19,417  42,801
Source: SAR for appraisal figures and PST Coordination Unit for actual figures

The Government maintained its commitment after 1999, by spending CFAF 3,3 billion in 2000, CFAF 2
billion in 2001, and CFAF 18 billion during 2002-2004.

Subcomponent B.2. Periodic maintenance
As shown in the following table, a total of 3,229 km of roads were maintained periodically/rehabilitated for
a total cost of CFAF 125 billion, compared to 4,111 km planned at an initial cost of CFAF 70.5 billion.
This corresponds to an execution rate of 78.5% at an additional cost of 77%. IDA co-financed the periodic
maintenance/rehabilitation of 1,277 km, which corresponds to 39.5% of the total works, for a cost of
CFAF 21.6 billion (about US$36 million). Several additional donors provided the additional resources
necessary to cover the gap between appraisal estimates and actual costs.

The figures projected at appraisal were based on a 5-year project life. The numbers above are given for the
10-year period of project execution. Therefore it took twice the time and almost twice the funds to meet the
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation goals defined at appraisal. The cost overrun can be explained by
the following reasons: (i) in certain cases, some earth roads were upgraded to paved roads because of the
condition of the road and the increased in traffic. This is the case of the ongoing rehabilitation of the paved
road Bamako-Kourémalé where the final unit cost per km is estimated at CFAF 212 million instead of
CFAF 33 million as initially planned for periodic maintenance of the road; (ii) some works had to be
re-estimated because underestimated at appraisal or the road condition had deteriorated meanwhile; (iii)
more paved roads have been maintained: 1069 km instead of 778 km as planned, which corresponds to an
additional 38% of planned works, and less earth roads have been maintained since only 469 km were
maintained instead of 818 km as planned at appraisal, and 657 km were rehabilitated instead of 857 km as
planned at appraisal.

The total cost of this subcomponent is estimated at CFAF 125 billion. All activities financed by IDA were
executed except for the paving of the road Markala-Niono which was finally financed by BOAD, and the
works on the Bougouni-Manakoro road which was not financed at all.

The following table summarizes the planned and actual periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works.




                                                    - 12 -

Summary of maintenance works executed during the project life (1995-2004)

                            Total km    Total km          km financed by IDA        Total Cost         Average Unit
                             at SAR      Actual                                                           cost
                                                       at SAR         Actual               Latest estimate
                                                                                          (millions of FCFA)
 Routine maintenance           9,000        9,000               0           0           43,971              4.8
 Periodic maintenance          2,211        2,173             724         853           58,723              27
 Paved Roads                     778        1,069             413         533           30,308              28
 Earth Roads                     818          469             311         260           15,403              33
 Tracks                          615          635                          60           13,011              20
 Rehabilitation                1,900        1,056   accounted             424           66,262              63
                                                    with
                                                    Periodic
                                                    maintenance
 Paved Roads                     383          240                         116           32,620             136
 Earth Roads                     857          673                         165           31,952              47
 Tracks                          660          143               0         143             1,690             12
 Total (periodic+rehab)        4,111        3,229             724       1,277          124,985              39
Source: DNR, February 2005

Subcomponent B.3. Rural tracks and ferries.
This subcomponent was supposed to improve 500 km of rural roads outside the main agricultural areas and
to purchase four ferries to serve zones that lacked reliable road access. The IDA project was to finance 123
km of rural roads and the procurement of two ferries out of four. The rural road program was partially
executed since one of the five roads (Korientzé-Niafounké) was removed from the list and the
Krouninkoto-Nioro road was only partially improved (100 km instead of 170 km).

The four ferries were bought between 1997 and 2000 for CFAF 1,080 million financed entirely by IDA.

The total cost of the component was CFAF 3,1 billion of which CFAF 2,4 billion were financed by IDA.

Subcomponent B.4. Environment.
This subcomponent was supposed to finance the implementation of specific works to improve the
environment and safety along selected project roads. No disbursement was registered for this subcomponent
since the few activities that were realized (tree planting, villages access improvement) were counted with
the road component. No quantitative data were made available.

Subcomponent B.5. Improvement of the Faladie-Pont des Martyrs road
This component was supposed to finance the improvement of one of Bamako's main urban road
(Faladie-Pont des Martyrs). This objective was even exceeded since additional works (adjacent road to the
main road) were executed within the initial envelope. The works were financed by the FAD, BOAD and
Mali.




                                                    - 13 -

Subcomponent B.6. Technical studies and supervision
This subcomponent financed all design engineering studies of the road investment program and supervision
of works as well as studies on road maintenance needs and the creation of the Road Agency
(AGEROUTE), for a total amount of CFAF 14.31 billion, almost three times the amount planned. This is
not surprising since all studies were not identified at appraisal and the increase in the cost of studies reflects
the fact that the actual cost of the works was twice the cost estimated at appraisal. The cost of studies
represents around 15 percent of the cost of works, which is higher than the common average of 10 percent.

Subcomponent B.7.Purchase of equipment for routine road maintenance.
This subcomponent was supposed to finance the transforming of the public equipment leasing company
into a private one (SLMTP, Société de Location de Matériel) and the purchase of equipment for road
maintenance. This was partially achieved: Equipment was purchased after SLMTP's termination and was
operated by the Road Strengthening Unit of the DNR which was in charge of the maintenance of the
Mopti-Gao road. Equipment purchase cost CFAF 3.34 billion, and only 41% of the component was
disbursed.

Component C (Railway component)

Subcomponent C.1. Studies, work supervision
This sub-component was supposed to finance supervision of works and technical assistance (short term
consultancies) to improve traffic organization and facilitate technical and commercial integration of
international freight and passenger services with the Senegalese counterpart, the objective being to
restructure RCFM and put its operation on a financially sustainable commercial basis eliminating the need
for operational subsidies. The component has even exceeded its objective since its major achievement is the
transfer in September 2003 of rail operations to Transrail, a private operator. The privatization of
international rail transport was not planned at project appraisal and international transport was initially to
be confined to a public international railway company (SETI), local transport being taken care of by the
respective public railway companies of Mali and Senegal. SETI was created but encountered coordination
problems with both national companies and both Governments decided therefore to privatize the operation
of international traffic. It was observed during the midterm review in 1998 that the status of the railway
sub-sector had worsened as its market share in international freight transport was declining due to weak
management and obsolete infrastructure and equipment.             Ongoing privatization of the operation of
international traffic, restructuring of RCFM, rehabilitation of truck and modernization of equipment had to
be accelerated to restore competitiveness of rail transport. Thus, the Malian/Senegalese Interministerial
Committee met with the donors and decided to update the Action Plan for the creation of the private
international railway service operating. RCFM was gradually dissolved and its staff compensated under a
social plan. Under the signed 25 year concession contract, Transrail is responsible for maintaining and
upgrading as necessary the rail line from Bamako to Dakar as well as operate the freight and passenger
trains on this line. While Transrail is to take full financial risks associated with the maintenance and
upgrading of the rail line as well as the freight operations, it only acts as a hired operator for the passenger
activities under a separate agreement with RCFM. For now, passenger services will be subsidized by the
respective governments under a full cost plus benefit recovery scheme whereby the operator will collect the
passenger fees and charge the states, if necessary, for the difference between the fees collected and the cost
and profit of providing these services.




                                                     - 14 -

Subcomponent C.2. Track rehabilitation
This subcomponent financed the execution of the first tranche of a 10-year track rehabilitation program and
the transfer of the freight terminal from Bamako to Korofina. The rehabilitation was partial since only 103
km of track were rehabilitated (target was not defined at appraisal) because of delays in the work execution
and therefore higher costs. The remaining will be done under the ongoing Transport Corridor Improvement
Project. The freight terminal has been relocated at Korofina and is operational.

Subcomponent C.3. Improvement of telecommunications system
This subcomponent was supposed to improve the efficiency of the railway operations by rehabilitating the
telecommunications system and supplying radio equipment. This was partially achieved since some
rehabilitation works were executed in 1997 and 1998 and equipment although purchased in 2001 is still not
operational for regulation problems. This explains why only 58% of the component cost has been disbursed
(CFAF 454 million out of the CFAF 780 million allocated).

Subcomponent C.4 Rolling stock
This subcomponent was not executed for initial lack of funding. It is only at the end of the project that
funds were made partially available to Transrail by IDA. The execution of the component is continuing
under the Transport Corridor Improvement Project (TCIP), the follow-up IDA operation.

Subcomponent 5. Acquisition of logistical equipment
This subcomponent was partially executed. Some equipments were purchased with AFD financing at a cost
of CFAF 681 million out of CFAF 1.68 billion allocated at appraisal. This corresponds to an execution
rate of 41%.

Component D (Airport component)
This component achieved what was expected at appraisal, i.e. the expansion of the Timbuktu airport at a
cost of FCFA 8.0 billion (about USD 16 million), the construction of a new fence around the Bamako
airport for FCFA 952 million (about USD 1.9 million) and the rehabilitation of the Nioro and Mopti
airports at a total cost of FCFA 5.6 billion (about USD 11.2 million).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The overall Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the road component for the whole Program and its Net Present
Value (NPV) discounted at 12% are estimated at the end of the program respectively at 35.4% and USD
177 million (versus 28% and US$ 190 million at appraisal).

For the purpose of the economic and cost benefit analysis summary, roads were grouped by type of works
as listed below and the economic analysis was carried out for each category of road and type of road works
(see Appendix 3.4. for details). The following table provides a summary of the road works executed
during the period of the project.




                                                    - 15 -

Table ­ Indicators Summary

 Works                                          Road Category   Net Present      IRR at appraisal
                                                                  Value
                                                                  (NPV)
 Periodic maintenance                      Paved Roads               93.969             92.8 %51.8%
 Periodic maintenance                      Earth Roads                1.444             14.7 %25.3%
  Periodic maintenance                    Improved Tracks              0.317            26.1 %32.0%
  Rehabilitation                          Paved Roads                  77.22            61.3 %43.0%
  Rehabilitation                          Earth Roads                 -1.226             9.4 %15.5%
  Rehabilitation                          Improved Tracks              2.039      37.3 %not available
 Pavement of Bamako-Kouremale road                      3.284       19.5 %               not available
                                                  Total             177.047             32.0 %28.4%
NPV calculated with a 12 percent discount rate

Periodic maintenance, rehabilitation of paved roads, rehabilitation of improved tracks and paving of
Bamako-Kouremale road all have a positive net present value. The net present value for the rehabilitation
of earth roads is negative. This results from the high standard and consequently high cost of the works not
justified in view of the level of traffic.

The economic rate of return of the rail component was estimated at 23 percent at appraisal. In view of the
fact that RCFM was liquidated and railway operations were transferred to a private concessionaire, the
actual rate of return was not calculated but is likely to have been negative as RCFM was not able to benefit
from the investments executed during the project. The CFAF 25 billion investment program to be executed
by the concessionaire, to which TSP contributed by an amount of about CFAF 2 billion, is expected to
generate a net present value discounted at 12 percent of CFAF 98 billion (Source: Project Appraisal
Document of Transport Corridor Improvement Project).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal. Based on the data provided by the
Concessionnaire Transrail, the FRR of the concession is estimated at 11.6% (see table below). This is
based on the assumption that equipment transferred from the public railway company to the concessionaire,
which is supposed to reimburse the value of the equipment to the Governments of Mali and Senegal, is not
included as an investment made by the concessionaire at the start of the concession but is accounted as debt
contracted by the concessionaire and reimbursed annually, therefore reducing the annual cash-flow.

From a strictly financial point of view, taking into consideration the capital invested by Transrail and the
shareholders (CFAF 10 billion), the financial rate of return is 55.4% as shown in the table below.




                                                     - 16 -

 Table : Financial ratios of the rail component (CFAF million)

                           2004      2005     2006     2007   2008      2009    2010   2011     2012    2013    FRR
Cash Flow (CF)              (59)      589     4,902   8,601  7,490     4,539    4,817  5,333   2,600   3,675

Capital (C)               3,900     3,200     2,900       0        0        0       0      0        0       0
Investment (I)            2,597     4,381     9,243  15,408        0        0       0      0        0       0

Debts payoffs(D)              0       435       685     250     990    2,226    3,191  3,191   3,191   3,191

Net cash Flow            (6,556)   (6,557) (6,556)   (6,557) 8,480     6,765    8,008  8,524   5,791   6,866   11.6%
(CF)-(C)-(I)+(D)
Capital flow (only)      (3,959)   (2,611)    2,002   8,601  7,490     4,539    4,817  5,333   2,600   3,675   55.4%




 4.5 Institutional development impact:
 The project's impact on institutional development is substantial.

 Administration reforms. As explained in paragraph 4.2., DNT and DNR were restructured through the
 project to include planning or programming departments. This improved their capacity to formulate sector
 policy, monitor the sector and plan road maintenance. These reforms still need to be strengthened as
 capacities and funding remain relatively scarce and in the case of DNR, partially dependent on external
 technical assistance, currently funded by the FED. This is, however, quite comparable to other countries
 like Kenya, Cameroon or Côte d'Ivoire after their own sector reforms. Countries that tried to improve their
 contract management skills often opted for the creation of specific autonomous agencies such as decided by
 Mali with the creation of AGEROUTE. Planning functions, which usually remain within the Government
 administration show, however, the same weaknesses as observed in Mali, their sustainable improvement
 being usually a challenge.

 Road maintenance funding and execution. The main project legacy is the set up of the Road Fund and the
 withdrawal of Government from road maintenance works execution. As explained in paragraph 4.1, the
 Road Fund was set up in 2000 and is now operational. Collection of road user charges through an axle load
 levy is effective since 2003 and through a fuel levy since 2004. The Ministry of Transport has completely
 withdrawn from execution of road works, handled exclusively since 2003 by private contractors. The
 current resources now allow for the routine maintenance of 70% of the primary road network (9,000 km
 out of a total of 13,000 of paved and unpaved roads), which is comparable to Cameroon (80%) but much
 more efficient than countries like Tanzania (40%), and for periodic maintenance/rehabilitation of 25% of
 that network (3,229 km). The creation of the Executing Agency for Road Maintenance (AGEROUTE)
 should further consolidate the reform of the road sector. This Agency will pioneer the introduction of
 multi-year maintenance and performance-based maintenance contracts which should increase significantly
 the Government's capacity to implement in a timely and cost-efficient fashion its road maintenance
 activities.

 Institutional capacity development. The project spearheaded the reform that resulted in the generation of
 incentives for the private sector to engage in maintenance activities, in the concentration of the public sector
 in the design, monitoring and evaluation of maintenance programs, and in bringing road user
 representatives in the Board of the Road Fund.




                                                     - 17 -

Organizational capacity building. The project contributed to: (i) the creation of the Transport Observatory
in 1995; (ii) the creation of the Center of Inspection of vehicles in 1995; (iii) the computerization of the
delivery of vehicle licenses; and (iv) the creation of the Road Statistics Service.

Capacity building. The project supported the creation of a post-graduate training scheme in management of
road maintenance for senior staff from public and private sectors. In total, 625 staff (of which 350 from the
private sector) benefited from specific training on road maintenance management, planning and execution,
road safety, procurement and disbursement procedures.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Fluctuations in world oil prices and the price of most of Mali export products as well as fluctuations in the
FCFA exchange rate had an impact on the country's revenues and expenditures. This is particularly true
for the price of petroleum products, which impacts on road traffic volume, hence, road user fees revenues.
With regard to the physical investments in the project, upward fluctuations in the price of bitumen and
equipment export insurance cost for foreign contractors had an impact on the cost of road works. The
exchange rate between the SDR and the FCFA went up and down throughout the project`s duration, finally
resulting in additional requirements for counterpart funding to cover the total costs of road contracts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors affecting the project and under the Government control were:

Political will to implement reforms. After the midterm review, the Government took courageous and
critical decisions to contract out road maintenance, set up the road fund, restructure the DNR and
concession railway operations, which immediately permitted the achievement of major project objectives
and subsequently helped their consolidation, as explained in the previous paragraphs.

Allocation of counterpart funds. Although with a two-year delay, the Government was able to keep its
commitments on funding of routine maintenance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies included the departments of the MET (DNT, DNR and DNAC). Delays in the
execution of the road component by the then DNTP (currently DNR) led to its restructuring after the
midterm review, so that it only focuses on road works programming and not execution.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The initial project costs were estimated at US$ 305.7 million of which IDA was to finance US$ 65 million.
As of end of December 2001, the project's initial closing date, financing obtained was US$ 473.4 million.
As of December 2004, the actual project's closing date, project financing amounted to US$ 529.5 million.
The additional US$ 56.1 million obtained between 2001 and 2004 came from the Government (US$ 19.7
million which represents an additional 26% to the 2001 Government commitment, to finance routine
maintenance and the fence of the Bamako-Sénou airport) and from FED and AFD (US$ 36.4 million,
which represents an additional 11 % to           the 2001 financing, to finance periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of roads). Annex 2 gives the detailed project costs, financing by component in 2001, 2004
and the variation in project financing between 2001 and 2004.




                                                      - 18 -

Table: Project financing (at appraisal and actual expenses)

                      At appraisal             At appraisal            Actual                   Actual
                       FCAF million             Percentage          FCAF million              Percentage
 IDA                           39,000               21                         36,316            13,6
 FED                           30,000               16                         86,101            32,2
 FAD                             8,580               5                         21,014             7,8
 BID                           32,160               18                         10,569             3,9
 BOAD                            6,420               4                         19,588             7,3
 BADEA                                0              0                          4,315             1,6
 GERMANY                       11,880                6                         11,370             4,2
 CANADA                          4,260               2                               0            0
 FRANCE                        10,740                6                         17,326             6,4
 OPEC                                 0              0                          3,728             1,3
 MALI                          28,680               16                         56,299             21
 To find                       11,700                6                               0            0
 TOTAL                       183,420               100                       266,626             100
Source: PST-SAR 1994, TSP Coordination unit 2005

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project's impact is considered likely.

Sustainability was promoted through; (i) institutional reforms that were introduced within the sector's
administration to upgrade its planning and management capacities; (ii) restructuring of COMANAV and
concessioning of railway operations to enhance the efficiency of transport services, and the passing on to
users, through the prices charged, of the full range of transport costs; (iii) revision of the road user taxation
system to improve the cost recovery of road use; (iv) development of the Malian construction industry; and
(v) training of sector personnel.

The creation of the Road Fund, the restructuring of the National Highway Department, the transfer of road
maintenance execution from force account to contractors complemented by the on-going creation of the
Road Agency establish a framework for sustained and efficient road maintenance. While road user charges
represent still a minor portion of the road maintenance budget, this portion will increase with the resources
generated by road tolls which are being implemented with support from the European Union. Road user
charges are expected to represent 40 percent of the total road maintenance resources in 2007, resources
expected themselves to increase from CFAF5.5 billion in 2003 to CFAF 12.3 billion in 2007.

Even though objectives in terms of road maintenance budget and road user charges have not been reached
in 2005, sustainability rating is maintained likely. As explained above, there are numerous valid reasons
given by the Government to justify its budgetary decision in 2005 (Côte d'Ivoire crisis, locust attack in
2004, increase in price of petroleum products, depreciation of the US dollar vis-à-vis the Euro). Also, the
Government has demonstrated its commitment to financing road maintenance during the period of project
execution. Targets for road maintenance budget agreed at appraisal for the 1994-1998 period were met.
Subsequent budgets in 2003 and 2004 increased substantially to CFAF5.5 billion (the equivalent of US$11
million) and CFAF7.5 billion (the equivalent of US$15 million) respectively compared to the targeted
amount of US$ 7.2 million in 1998.


                                                     - 19 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The World Bank's FY04-06 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is designed to support the PRSP and,
together with the PRSP, to provide a solid framework for moving towards the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). While the European Commission (EC) is the lead donor in financial terms for road
investments (about EUR 140 million through 2007), the World Bank continues to play a dominant role in
strengthening the policy framework and helping to ensure a coherent sector-wide approach. In this respect,
the World Bank's assistance strategy to the sector will rely on the Transport Corridors Improvement
Project (TCIP) covering the 2004/2007 period and the second Transport Sector Project (TSP2) from 2006
onwards.

The TCIP has two primary objectives: (a) improve alternative corridors to the ports of Dakar and Abidjan
by rail and road respectively, and (b) sustain accessibility to the northern region of Mali, one of the poorest
region in the country. TCIP includes the following project components: 1) a rail component covering : (a)
the compensation plan for redundant staff in the Régie des Chemins de Fer du Mali (RCFM) as a result of
its concessioning in September 2003; and (b) the need for infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization of
the rail line and the railway rolling stock; 2) a road component which includes periodic maintenance works
for two critical roads which are part of the North-South corridor linking Bamako to the coastal ports and
the Extreme North of the country to Bamako and technical advisory services in support of road works
supervision, planning and social and environmental assessment.

While TCIP is being implemented, the Government has launched the preparation of the TSP2 in close
cooperation with the EC and other donors, using the same program approach than during TSP preparation.
TSP2's intended scope will be broad (i.e., sector wide program and policy framework) and will include all
relevant transport sub-sectors (i.e., roads, rail, aviation, river) warranting a substantial investment program
which will be supported by the donors' community. Preparation of TSP2 is supported by an Economic and
Sector Work carried out by the Bank in 2004 (Report 27669-MLI, June 25, 2004) as well as by the
definition by the Government of a transport sector strategy (with World Bank financing) for the next 7
years in addition to the definition of a sector-wide investment program during the same period (with EC
financing).

The TSP achievements will be deepened in the following areas during the subsequent projects (TCIP and
PST2).
-        TCIP provides support to the creation of AGEROUTE and to the implementation of a road
management system. The project will also monitor the allocation of resources to road maintenance as
committed by the Government in its 2004 DGPST.
-        TCIP will complement a 2003-approved regional African Development Bank project and a
regional World Bank project under preparation (FY07) which both aim at improving regional road
transport and transit.
-        TSP2 will include a program of rural roads in the cotton area in addition to the Agricultural
Diversification and Competitiveness Project (FY06-interface roads with rural roads in the cotton area) and
the second phase of the National Rural Infrastructure Program (FY08-rural roads outside of the cotton
area).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory, although the Bank should have been
more realistic in terms of implementation schedule. More attention should also have been given to


                                                       - 20 -

strengthening capacity of local staff to handle project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance with regard to supervision is rated satisfactory. Efficient teamwork, constitution of
adequately staffed teams and their pro-activity, establishing a deep and open dialogue plus the frequency of
the various missions, all played a major role in successfully implementing the project. Procurement was
closely monitored. The Bank team in agreement with the Government was able to use the mid-term review
to promote key reforms and changes in the sector. The Development Credit Agreement was amended to
provide timely resources to the Concessionnaire. Support from a World Bank railway expert associated
with a staff from Agence Française de Développement was key to the success of the concessioning
process. The Bank team with support from the Africa region was also proactive to help the Government
succeed in creating the Road Fund and dealing with reluctance from IMF staff to have road maintenance
resources managed outside of the national budget.

Supervision of social and environmental aspects of the project was insufficient. The lesson was learned
however and social and environmental staff are regular members of the supervision of the follow-up
operation (TCIP).

Consultation with donors was substantial during project preparation but became more informal although
still continuous during implementation. Coordination was more the responsibility of the Government,
however, than of the Bank.

The project was handed to three successive project managers during the supervision phase, but that did not
disturb its implementation.

Project performance indicators should have been redefined during implementation to enable easier
monitoring of the quantitative impact. No impact indicators were defined at project preparation and had to
be tentatively defined in this report. However, the preparation of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) including a Public Expenditure Review (PER) for the transport sector, which was part of the
macro-economic dialogue between the Bank and the Government and which was lead by the TTL of the
TSP, gave the opportunity to start discussing with the Government the impact indicators of transport
programs.

The Bank responded favorably to the Government request to extend the Closing Date of the project : (a) to
continue technical assistance services to the Government in support of the concessioning process; and (b) to
make available project resources to the concessionaire after the concessioning process was completed. Both
objectives were reached as the concession for railway operations was awarded and project funds in support
of the concession were disbursed.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory, based on its preparation and supervision
ratings. The Bank played a critical role in helping the Government achieve its ambitious objectives.

The Bank's impact on the Program is reflected in the significant positive changes in the management,
maintenance and financing of the road network, and improvement in transport services and sector
infrastructure. The way the Bank continuously and consistently has phased its support to the transport
sector through several instruments, such as the CAS, the Economic Sector Work, the MTEF and the PER,
the on-going TCIP, the TSP2 and both agricultural projects, is one of the main reasons for its success.




                                                     - 21 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. As explained in the preamble, the
program was prepared in consultation with all the donors and designed along the 1993 DGTSP objectives.
Studying reforms and formulating the policy letter were done on time and in close cooperation with all the
donors.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

While project start-up was slow, the Government was able to catch up especially on counterpart funds and
fund for road maintenance. The mid-term review was critical in the implementation process and the
Government succeeded in implementing agreements reached during the review. Physical execution may
have lagged compared to forecasts at appraisal but sector reforms were deeper than expected at appraisal
which lays the ground for better results in the future.

While the Government led donors' coordination during project preparation, this leadership weakened during
implementation. However, when preparation of TSP2 started, the Government acknowledged that donors'
coordination was a key parameter in the success of the TSP and reinvigorated the coordination mechanism.

The Borrower is in compliance with the covenants in the development credit agreement, except for one
covenant that was complied with after project closing date. It required the presentation of a three year
investment plan to the donors. The plan is being prepared with European Union financing and is expected
to be available by mid-2005 for presentation to the donors during a round table to be organized in 2005.
Covenants in the project agreement with RCFM were not complied with and the railway component was
rated unsatisfactory after the mid-term review. The Government took the right decision to address poor
performance of the railway company by concessioning railway services to a private operator. The rating of
the component was upgraded to satisfactory on the basis of that decision.

Compliance with procurement schedules is unsatisfactory. The Land Transport Department has been
particularly slow in procuring and signing contracts.

Compliance with safeguards on environment is rated satisfactory but safeguard management is rated
unsatisfactory. Environmental measures implemented under the project were not monitored by the
Government. Capacity was not built to sustain environmental management. Although environmental
measures included in road contracts were implemented, there is no evidence that beneficiaries were
consulted. These monitoring issues are addressed however under the Transport Corridors Improvement
Project (TCIP) recently approved which includes activities to build capacity in environment in the road
maintenance sector. The project coordination unit is also strengthened with an environmental and social
development specialist. A transport environmental unit was created in the department of Sanitation and
Control of Pollution and Nuisance in the Ministry in charge of Environment in 2003.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall project implementation by the agencies has been satisfactory, all implementing agencies have
adequately discharged their responsibilities. Overall, activities have been executed satisfactorily, except for
accounting monitoring.

The project was implemented by the ministries responsible for finance, for transport and for roads and by
two independent agencies (RCFM and ASECNA-ADM), and monitored by a unit who coordinated, with



                                                     - 22 -

the help of the DAF (Administrative and Financial Department) of the MET, executing agencies in
financial management and disbursement procedures for the different donor agencies. DNT was the
executing agency for transport technical assistance, CPTP (restructured into INFET) for the training
component, DNTP (restructured into the DNR) for the roads and the relevant technical assistance, RCFM
for the rail component, and ASECNA-ADM for the airport component, under the supervision of the
DNAC.

Since the project accounting was subcontracted to an external private assistance, and due to lack of
coordination between the DAF, the technical assistance and the Coordination Unit, the latter was not able
to monitor the project accounting adequately. This accounting issue has been addressed in the recently
approved TCIP since the Coordination Unit will be staffed with a financial expert and an accountant.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Bank lending instrument should be chosen taking into account the difference of pace in
preparation of reforms and investments. The project experienced significant delays during its first two
years of implementation. The project was presented to the Board as an incentive to support reformers in the
Government who had designed the reform program supported by the project. However, engineering studies
and bidding documents were not available at the time of the Board. Consideration should be given to using
budgetary aid to support implementation of reforms through separate or multi-sector operations to prevent
costly delays in implementation of much needed investments.

The Government should assume leadership to coordinate donors. Except at mid-term review, no
formal consultations between donors were organized by the Government during project implementation and
it was observed at the writing of this report that very little data was available at the Coordinating Unit on
donors' supervision missions (Aide-Mémoire, donors project monitoring activities) and project accounting.
In addition, disbursement reporting is different from a donor to another. It is therefore recommended to set
up a coordinating unit in the Ministry of Transport to ensure monitoring of all donors activities, using
specific procedures agreed upon by all donors. Donors would have the obligation to provide periodically
the coordination unit with specific information on project implementation.

Training should be adequate and sustainable. Institutional reforms should be followed by adequate
accompanying measures. For example, the transition from road works done by force account to execution
by contract necessitate adequate training of private contractors and staff in the administration. In addition,
training should not last only as long as donors' resources are available but the Government should dedicate
specific funds for training to ensure its sustainability.

Procurement capacity and delays should be realistically evaluated. In order to avoid procurement
delays, procurement schedules should be more realistic and based on actual capacity and performance. In
the case of Mali, for procurement of consultants, a six month period between the invitation to submit
proposals and the signing of the contract is recommended rather than a three month period such as initially
planned in the TSP.




                                                      - 23 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This project is part of a sector-wide program to support the Government of Mali's efforts: a) to strengthen
the sector's management and performance through reorganization and local capacity building; b) to
restructure the transport sector's parastatals; c) to modify the regulatory and institutional framework in
order to promote increased private sector participation in the provision of services and the execution of
works; d) to rehabilitate and maintain a priority network of transport infrastructure; and e) to improve the
transport operation's efficiency, and reduce transport costs.

The project has four components: 1) a capacity building and training component 2) a road component; 3) a
railway component; and 4) a civil aviation and airport component.

The TSP benefited from several sources of financing:
·       from IDA, through the credit 2617/MLI, for the capacity building and training component, the road
component (11%) and the railway component (56%) (The percentages were established on the basis of
information available at end of October 2004);
·       from the European Union, through the 7th, 8th and 9th European Development Funds (EDF), for
primarily the road component in particular the routine maintenance and the rehabilitation of several road
sections (approximately 36% of the road component);
·       from the African Bank of Development, through the African Development Fund (FAD), for the
road component (9%);
·       from the Western African Development Bank, for the road component (7%) and the airport
component (28%);
·       from the French Development Agency, for the road component (6%) and the railway component
(36%);
·       from Germany for the road component (5%);
·       from the Islamic Development Bank, for the road component (3%) and the airport component
(22%);
·       from the Arab Bank for the Economic Development in Africa, for the railway component (30%);
·       from OPEC, which financed work maintenance periodic and rehabilitation as part of the road
component (2%).

The Government of Mali financed 22% of the road component, mostly routine maintenance. The
Government also contributed to the railway component (8%) and the airport component (20%).

General appreciation of the project

The Transport Sector Project was relatively ambitious and sought to address many institutional, structural,
regulatory and operational problems while aiming at rehabilitating the core infrastructures. It covered all
the transport modes and aimed at the collaboration and involvement of several donors.

Overall, TSP met its development objectives and it has contributed to significant improvements in the
transport sector in Mali.




                                                    - 24 -

i)      At the level of the reforms

    The TSP made it possible to entrust to a private company the technical inspection of vehicles, the
    management of the license plates as well as routine maintenance of the road network. The Highway
    Code was revised and the delivery of drivers' licenses computerized. The framework for management
    and financing of road maintenance was re-examined which led to the creation of the Road Fund, for the
    financing part, and the creation of the Road Agency, for the management of road works programs.
    Moreover, the various directions of the Ministry of Equipment were or are to be restructured to reflect
    the changes in their role and prerogatives.

    The reforms envisaged were thus carried out. In certain cases, their implementation remains to be
    finalized or certain structures created within the framework of the TSP have to be made operational
    and sustainable, in particular the Transport Observatory and the road data bank.

ii)     At the operational level

    The TSP allowed the concessioning of railway services on the Bamako-Dakar corridor and the
    restructuring of COMANAV, the river transport company. In the airport sector, the concession of the
    airports however did not lead yet.

iii)    At the level of the infrastructures

    The TSP implemented an important program of road maintenance and rehabilitation. It enabled the
    consolidation of certain itineraries important for the national and international traffic which in turn
    increased accessibility to people and goods. In the railway and airport sectors, works were also
    completed in order to rehabilitate and to improve the existing infrastructure.

Performance indicators

I)      Indicators of activities

The appraisal report (SAR) produced at the preparation stage had defined a certain number of indicators
for the activities. As to road maintenance, it was envisaged to carry out approximately FCFA 4 billion of
works per year, partly by force account (25%) and partly by the private sector (75%). On the whole, the
average value of works completed was in conformity with the objectives. For the part to be carried out by
the private sector, this objective was also achieved as 100% of the works are now contracted to the private
sector.

For routine maintenance and road rehabilitation, works carried out exceeded the initial objectives. This is
due in part to additional funding that Mali succeeded in obtaining from other donors.

II)     Financial indicators

Taking into account the additional funds obtained by Mali from other donors within the framework of the
TSP, the budget envisaged initially was largely exceeded. Indeed, the initial budget amounted to FCFA
183.4 billion while the final budget including the contribution of the Government and other donors was
335.5 billion FCFA at the end of 2004. At the end of 2004, disbursements totaled FCFA 266.1 billion. All
the components of the project and in particular the road component benefited from these significant budget
increases. These increases are explained, partly, by the duration of the project which increased from 5 to 10



                                                    - 25 -

years, and especially by the financial contribution of certain donors which was more important than
envisaged initially.

III)     Performance of the Administration

On the whole, the Government of Mali fulfilled satisfactorily its role in the implementation of the project
components. The Project Coordination Unit effectively carried out the management of the project, in spite
of limited resources, and produced the various reports required by the Government and the donors, in
particular the progress reports. The stability of its staff as well as their implication are among the factors
which enabled the TSP to achieve its goals.

The performance of the Government of Mali in its relations with the donors is commendable, for obtaining
additional investments compared to the budget initially envisaged in the TSP.

IV)      Performance of the donors

As for the World Bank, the project benefited from a regular follow-up throughout its course. Indeed, many
missions of supervision were carried out, which allowed to take the relevant decisions relating to the project
implementation. All these missions produced aide-memoires. Taking into account the duration of the
project, several project leaders followed one another over the years.

The World Bank has, unlike other donors, associated the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the execution
of the different aspects of the project without depriving the Authority Agencies of their attributions. The
Bank held the PCU directly informed of its relationships with the Authority Agencies through its messages
of non-objection and its various correspondences.

As for the other financial partners, they conducted the management of their funds according to their own
rules.

Finally, in the course of the project, few multi-donors meetings were organized. Indeed, only one meeting of
this type was held following the mid-term review. This type of meeting should be held regularly in order to
coordinate well the interventions of each donor within the project framework. Moreover, it could be
advantageous to all of them that the financial and technical information on the project could be gathered
and be subjected to detailed reports.

Project risks and sustainability

Among the risks identified at the beginning of the project, the first was the concern that the Government
would not have the capacity to carry out all the reforms needed in the sector and the second that it could not
lift the constraints in the mobilization and allocation of the counterpart funds necessary for the funding of
the Project, in particular for routine road maintenance.

In spite of certain delays in implementing certain reforms effectively and in disbursing funds for road
maintenance at the beginning of the project, these risks were well controlled. The majority of the reforms
have been achieved and the counterpart funds allocated to road maintenance were paid. In fact, not only
was the Government able to lift the constraints in the mobilization of the necessary counterpart funds, but it
also succeeded in offsetting the lack of coordination between the RCFM and the SNCS. The efforts made
by Mali to increase the productivity of the railway transport were real. It remains however to ensure the
sustainability of certain reforms and, in particular, of certain new structures created within the project


                                                     - 26 -

framework.

The Government was thus able to implement a series of reforms aiming at meeting the strategic objectives
envisaged in the DGTSP of 1993. Although all the reforms were not finished within the initial timetable,
with time, they will certainly improve the effectiveness of the sector. This will be the case in particular for
road maintenance, for which several fundamental changes already took place.

The third risk was the weak management capacity of the executing agencies. The TSP put forward a
training scheme as well as some technical assistance in order to mitigate this risk. This risk is still present
in certain administrations caused by the mobility of the personnel that benefited from the training.

The fourth risk related to the devaluation of the FCFA which caused an increase of the transport costs. The
implementation of the reforms on the road users' charges with the resulting increase in transport prices will
be difficult to implement. This risk remains a fact today and must be well managed in order to succeed in
the reforms undertaken.

Finally, an important positive element has been achieved in the last years of project related to the project's
environmental and social aspects. At the preparation phase of the TSP, environmental improvement was
limited to some physical activities included in the road works, in particular planting of trees, the restoration
of the vegetation and the rehabilitation of the works' sites. However, during project execution, these actions
or at the very least their monitoring, were not treated with all the desired attention. Within the framework of
the studies carried out for the preparation of the Transport Corridor Improvement Project, the Government
systematically undertook environmental impact studies including environmental and social management
plans, in order to define and to take suitable measures for environmental protection. These efforts will set
the stage to benefit all future transport projects in Mali.

Lessons learned

The first one relates to the availability of funds for the preparation of a project. Indeed, it is important that
preliminary studies be carried out at the right time in order not to delay the project's effectiveness. In the
case of the TSP, the project encountered, at the beginning, some important delays in the execution of road
works caused by an inadequate preparation.

The second one is about the need to allocate the right personnel in the PCU in order to ensure a more
consistent follow-up and a better control on the execution of the project. With the large scope of the TSP,
the PCU managed to carry out the project more than satisfactorily but not without difficulties. Staffed with
a limited personnel, it carried out tasks that often required a surplus of work from each and everyone. More
human resources combined with a better technical and financial information system would ensure a better
follow-up of activities and an effective production of the various reports required by the Government and
the donors. Moreover, an archive and document filing center should be created and a person should be
appointed specifically to assume this function. It would be then possible to easily retrieve any information
related to the project.

Concerning routine road maintenance and more specifically the participation of private contractors, it was
suggested on several occasions during the project to resort to the procurement of multi-annual contracts.
Indeed, the purpose of these contracts is to be able to guarantee to the private contractors a certain volume
of works over several years. Also, the contractor would be able to better plan and mobilize the resources
necessary to carry out the works.




                                                      - 27 -

Similarly, in the years to come, it will be important to make sure that the functional and operational
relations between the Road Fund and the Road Agency are effective in order not to delay the execution of
works or the prompt payment to the contractors. The Road Fund's role is to manage the funds intended for
the maintenance of the road network, while the Road Agency acts as the executing agency. In order not to
encounter the same difficulties than during the implementation of the TSP (funds not available, delays in
payments, ineffective procurement process, etc), it is suggested to define and install mechanisms to manage
funds and their transfer in order to speed up the start of the works and the payment to the contractors.
Moreover, it will be necessary to ensure an adequate programming of the road maintenance works, which
requires improving the competences of the Road Data Department.

In addition, the experience gained during the TSP suggests that it is of primary importance to complete the
restructuring reforms and to ensure an organizational stability in order to maintain the effectiveness of the
Administration. The TSP initiated multiple restructurings of the Administration. In certain occasions, the
restructurings were not complete. This was in particular the case of the Public Works Equipment Leasing
Service. The failure of this experience is partly due to the fact that the structure was not completely
functional and that the staff positions were not all filled.

Performance indicators were developed during TSP preparation. However, several of these indicators were
not evaluated in a systematic way. Taking into account the way in which project activities were monitored
and presented in the quarterly progress reports, it is difficult to get a consistent picture of each indicator.
This is in particular the case of the road maintenance indicators or of the environmental actions, which
were not the subject of any monitoring. As a result, it is important to design performance indicators that are
easy to measure and to carry out systematically the mid-term review in order to timely assess the progress
in project implementation and to quickly undertake corrective measures.

The mid-term review must be considered in the same spirit. The advantages of such an exercise were in fact
appreciated within the framework of the TSP whereas the review relating to the road component proved to
be a turning point in the project. Indeed, in light of the weak performance of road maintenance, the
Government undertook a series of reforms which allowed an adjustment in the TSP action plan.

Finally, the experiences of privatization within the framework of TSP proved to be quite different from
ones and the others. Some materialized successfully, such as Mali Technic System, the vehicle inspection
center, whereas others failed. The case in point is that of the Public Works Equipment Leasing Service,
which was such a complete failure that it did not survive a long time after its creation. Of course, it is clear
that success in privatization schemes are mainly due to profitable activities. When the public companies are
not profitable, it is difficult to attract partners and to transfer the risk to them without compensations. It is
thus necessary to re-examine the expectations of the Government towards the privatization of its public
companies in order to achieve the goals targeted while preserving the interests of each and every parties.

The Government must modify its vision or its expectations regarding the privatization of its companies or
activities and clearly establish their viability on a commercial basis. Certain requirements concerning public
utilities should be re-examined in light of an evaluation of the commercial and noncommercial risks which
are associated to them. One example is the obligation for a new airline, in order to be certified by the
Administration, to service domestic routes on a regular basis. Before taking the decision to enforce this
obligation, it should be required to analyze the costs that the company has to bear in comparison to the
tariff that the clients are willing to pay.

In addition, the Administration must set up control and other accompanying measures to make it possible
for the concessionnaires to effectively deliver the services for which they are responsible and to gain from


                                                       - 28 -

the potential market. Such is the case of the technical inspections of vehicles and production of license
plates which depend on enforcement of regulation to ensure that the vehicles' owners fulfill their
obligations.

The initial Borrower's contribution in French is in the attached file below :




(b) Cofinanciers:
Not provided.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/impact indicators

            Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last SAR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Transport statistics produced by Transport                           Creation of the Transport Observatory
Observatory - DO (a)                                                 Regulatory texts and technical documents disseminated
                                                                     regularly
                                                                     Transport statistics were produced for the years 1995 to
                                                                     2003.
Percentage of road maintenance executed    75 percent                100 percent since 2003
by private contractors - DO (c)
Transport costs- ton-km                    Not identified in SAR      9% increase between 1995 and 2002 on paved roads, 3%
                                                                      decrease on earth roads and 11% increase on tracks, in
                                                                      total 7% increase on all the network
Road accident reporting rate               Not identified in SAR      Adoption and implementation of new traffic code and new
                                                                      safety regulation
                                                                      Road safety campaigns
                                                                      20% in 2002 (cf 2004 ESW) and should be 100% by 2008
                                                                      (cf 2004 DGPST)
Road data bank (km)                        6000 km                   Creation of the Road Statistics Service
                                                                     12576.6 km
Number of cars re-registered               26,000 cars re-registered Computerization of the driving license administration
                                                                     Transport title delivery duration is 15 days instead of one
                                                                     month
                                                                     Grey cards are renewed every five years
                                                                     143,118 cars re-registered
Number of cars inspected                   8,000 cars inspected      Creation of the Center of Inspection of Vehicles
                                                                     69,988 cars inspected in 2004




                                                             - 30 -

Output Indicators: (cf SAR )

                     Indicator/Matrix                  At SAR                                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Routine Road maintenance by force account                                             Cf DNR
         Paved roads (Km)                             1,800                           1,800
          Earth roads (Km)                            4,700                           4,700
           Amount US 000$                             8,350                           See total routine maintenance
 Routine Road maintenance by contractors
           Paved roads (Km)                           5,000                           2,000 between 1995 and 2001
                                                                                      9,000 since 2002
           Earth roads (Km)                           8,000
           Amount US000$                              24,350                          See total routine maintenance
Total routine maintenance Amount US 000$              33,700                          73,000
Periodic maintenance (Km)                             724 ­ IDA (total=1511)          853 ­ IDA/MALI- (total=2173 km)
          Paved roads (Km)                            413- IDA (total=778)            533­ IDA/MALI- (total=1069 km)
          Earth roads (KM)                            311- IDA (total=818)            260- IDA/MALI- (total=469 km)
          Tracks (Km)                                 0-IDA (total=615)               60 ­ IDA/MALI- (total=635 km)
Rehabilitation (Km)                                   For IDA, counted with periodic  432 ­ IDA/MALI - (total=1056 km)
                                                      maintenance- (total=1900)
          Paved roads (Km)                            (total=383)                     116 ­ IDA/MALI - (total=240 km)
          Earth roads (KM)                            (total 857)                     165 ­ IDA/MALI - (total=673 km)
          Tracks (Km)                                 (total=660)                     143- IDA/MALI
Periodic maintenance and Rehabilitation (US$000)      117,500                         271,435 (of which 35,840 financed by
Amount in million FCAF                                70,500                          IDA)
                                                                                      163,594
Ferries                                               4 - 2 IDA                       4 - all IDA
Planting
Number of trees                                       6950
Length of the roads concerned by environmental        69
improvement (KM)
Square ha of the villages to improve environmentally  35
Road data (km)                                        6000                            12576.6
SMTP
Operating income
  Part from force account (%)                         37                              SMTP created but never functioned
  Part from private           (%)                     63                              SMTP created but never functioned
Number of cars re-registered                          26,000                          143,118
Number of cars inspected                              8,000                           69,988 in 2004
Training: Beneficiaries
Number of days                                        1600                            5146
Beneficiaries                                         800                             625
Number of trainees from the private sector            350                             417
Percentage of road maintenance executed by private    75 percent                      100 percent
contractors




                                                              - 31 -

Assessment of project objectives

Project objectives Components of         Other projects    Qualitative/quantitative assessment of
                   the TSP            supporting component outcome
                   supporting              objective
                   project objective
a) strengthen the  A. Capacity                IDA          - Transport Observatory created in 1995
sector management Building                                 - Road and accident statistics published
and performance                                            since 1994
                                                           - 143,118 vehicles registered
                                                           - 69,988 vehicles inspected in 2004
                                                           - CPTP restructured into INFET to
                                                           provide training to the private sector
                                                           - Road data bank set up in Highway
                                                           Department
                                                           - 12,576 km of road surveyed and entered
                                                           in data bank
                                                           - 625 trainees on road maintenance
                                                           management, planning and execution,
                                                           procurement and disbursement
                                                           - Highway Department restructured
                                                           - Road Fund created
b) restructure the C. Railway             IDA, AFD         - Concessionaire selected in February 2003
transport sector   component                               - Services started in October 2003
parastatal                                                 - RCFM dissolved in 2004
                                                           - COMANAV restructured in 1994
                   D. Air Component   BID/BOAD/BADEA       - Air Mali liquidated
                                                           - ADM privatization failed twice. Third attempt
                                                           is ongoing with Bank support
c) modify the      A. Capacity               IDA           - Ongoing restructuring of the Transport Land
regulatory and     Building                                Department to transfer some activities to the
institutional      component                               private sector: vehicle inspection: (done),
framework                                                  weighing stations (ongoing)
                    B. Road               IDA, FED         - Road Fund created in 2000. Collect of user
                    component                              charges started in 2003. Road user charge
                                                           collected on petroleum products since 2004
                  B. Road component       IDA, FED         - Road Agency expected to be operational in
                                                           2005 (conditionality under European
                                                           Community program). Text ratified in 2004 and
                                                           DG appointed in May 2005.




                                              - 32 -

Project objectives Components of the Other projects supporting Qualitative/quantitative assessment of outcome
                   TSP supporting      component objective
                   project objective
d) to rehabilitate B. Road                 IDA, FED            - Improvement of road condition on earth roads
and maintain a     component                                   (53% in 1995 are in good condition, 69% in
priority network                                               2002)
                                                               - Deterioration of road condition on paved roads
                                                               between 1995 and 2002 but improvement in
                                                               2004 (88% in 1995 are in good condition, 59%
                                                               in 2002 and 82% in 2004)
                                                               - Overal improvement of earth road network
                                                               including tracks between 2002 (27% in good,
                                                               fair and passable condition) and 2004 (34%).
                                                               - 3,229 km maintained (periodic maintenance
                                                               and rehabilitation) during project execution of
                                                               which 1,285 km financed by IDA at 80% and
                                                               Mali at 20%
                                                               - 9,000 km routine maintenance by contractors
                                                               since 2003
                   C. Railway              IDA, AFD            - Partial track rehabilitation (103 km)-
                   component                                   Remaining will be done under TCIP
                                                               - Freight terminal relocated at Korofina and
                                                               operational
e) improve the     C. Railway              IDA, AFD            - After concessionaire started its operations in
transport          component                                   late 2003, railway traffic grew to about 465,000
operations                                                     tons in 2004 compared to about 250,000 tons in
efficiency and                                                 2003
reduce transport                                               - Rail tariffs are lower than road tariffs
costs
                   B. Road                    IDA              - Transport costs have decreased by 3 % on
                   component                                   earth roads and increased by 9 % on paved
                                                               roads and by 20% on tracks, between 1995 and
                                                               2002, because of inadequate level of
                                                               maintenance
                   C. Airport         BID/BOAD/BADEA           - Safety improved at Timbuktu and
                   Component                                   Bamako-Sénou airports




                                              - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Component                                   Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                            Estimate        Estimate      Appraisal
                                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Capacity building, Training
  1. Project management unit                      0.4                1.2    299%
  2. Training                                     1.6                1.7    107%
  3. Management development Transport             1.3                1.1    88%
Department
  4. Management development Public works             1               1.2    118%
Department
  5. Audit Compliance Program                     1.4                0.5    33%
Subtotal                                          5.7                5.7    100%
B. Road component - Routes
  1. Routine maintenance                        33.7               73.0     216%
  2. Periodic maintenance / Rehabilitation      117.5             271.4     231%
  3. Rural tracks (inc. ferries)                14.2                 5.1    36%
  4. Environmental action                         5.9                0.0     0%
  5. Bamako urban road                          23.8               17.1     72%
  6. Studies, works supervision                      8             23.7     297%
  7. Equipment                                       5               5.5    111%
Subtotal                                        208.1             395.9     190%
C. Rail component
  1. Track rehabilitation (1st tranche)         18.6                 9.5    51%
  2. Freight terminal (Korofina)                     3               5.2    174%
  3. Telecommunications                           1.3                0.8    58%
  4. Rolling-stock rehabilitation                 6.1                0.0     0%
  5. Logistical equipment                         2.8                1.1    40%
  6. Studies, work supervision                    0.7                1.7    236%
Subtotal                                        32.5               18.2     56%
D. Air component
  1. Security Equipment ­ Timbuktu                4.5              12.1     270%
  2. Bamako ­ Senou                               3.3                1.6
  3. Interior Airports                                               9.5
Subtotal                                          7.8              23.2     297%
Total Baseline Cost                             254.1             443.0     174%
Total Project Costs                             305.7             443.0     145%
    US$1 = CFAF 600.0/April 18, 1994
    US$1 = CFAF 602.7/December 31, 2004 (average during project life)




                                                - 34 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Project Element                                     Procurement Method                                       Total
                                                        ICB              NCB         Other        N.I.F.      Cost
1. Works
  1.1 Road component                                    39.9                                      153.4      193.3
                                                       (35.9)                                                (35.9)
  1.2 Railway                                            9.5                                       12.1       21.6
                                                        (8.5)                                                 (8.5)
  1.3 Airport                                                                                       3.2        3.2
2. Goods
  2.1 Ferries                                            1.3                                        0.5        1.8
                                                        (1.3)                                                 (1.3)
  2.2 Telecommunications                                                                            1.3        1.3
 2.3 Switching locomotives, rolling stock                                               5.7         5.7        5.7
                     rehab
  2.4 Logistical equipment                                                                          3.3        3.3
  2.5 Airport security equipment                                                        4.5         4.5        4.5
  2.6 Vehicles, computer equipment                       0.5              0.7                                  1.2
                                                                         (0.5)        (0.7)                   (1.2)
  2.7 Road maintenance Equipment                                                        5            5         5
3. Services
  3.1 Coordinating Unit
         TA                                                                             0.1                    0.1
                                                                                      (0.1)                   (0.1)
  3.2 Training                                                                          1.2                    1.2
                                                                                      (1.2)                   (1.2)
  3.3 TA to DNT                                                                         1.1                    1.1
                                                                                      (1.1)                   (1.1)
  3.4 TA to DNTP                                                                        0.5                    0.5
                                                                                      (0.5)                   (0.5)
  3.5 Audits                                                                            1.4                    1.4
                                                                                      (1.4)                   (1.4)
  3.6 Works studies and supervision                                       3.6           5.1         5.1        8.7
     Supervision                                                                      (3.6)                   (3.6)
4. Coord. Operating Costs                                                               0.2                    0.2
                                                                                      (0.2)                   (0.2)
         TOTALS                                         50.7              0.5           8.8       194.1      254.1
                                                       (45.7)            (0.5)        (8.8)                  (55.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit. N.I.F.: Not IDA-financed.
Totals do not include price contingencies.




                                                            - 35 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                   ICB                 Procurement Method12                     N.B.F.            Total Cost
                                                             NCB                   Other
1. Works                              51.24                   0.10                  0.00              0.00                51.35
                                     (42.21)                 (0.09)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (42.30)
2. Goods                               2.45                   0.60                  0.17              0.00                3.22
                                      (2.78)                 (0.50)                (0.03)            (0.00)              (3.31)
3. Services                            0.00                   0.00                 36.94              0.00                36.94
                                      (0.00)                 (0.00)                (7.38)            (0.00)              (7.38)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00                   0.00                  0.00              0.00                0.00
                                      (0.00)                 (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00                    0.00                  0.00              0.00                0.00
                                      (0.00)                 (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)               (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00                    0.00                  0.00              0.00                0.00
                                      (0.00)                 (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)               (0.00)
            Total                     53.70                   0.70                 37.12              0.00                91.51
                                     (44.99)                 (0.59)                (7.40)            (0.00)             (52.98)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
in the project coordination unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project, and (ii) re-lending of project funds to local government units.




                                                               - 36 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) - 12/31/2001

Component                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                                        Bank  Govt.    CoF.   Bank   Govt.      CoF.  Bank   Govt.     CoF.
A. Capacity building, Training
  1. Project management unit                                    0.7
  2. Training                                                   1.4
  3. Management development                                     1.0
    Transport Department
  4. Management development Public                              0.6              6.1
    works Department
  5. Audit Compliance Program                                    0.8   0.01      0.8
Subtotal                                  6.7                   4.5    0.01      6.9   67%
B. Road component - Routes
  1. Routine maintenance                        39.0      1.4          59.0                  151%          0%
  2. Periodic maintenance /              37.1    4.2     99.7  34.1     8.9     248.6  92%   213%       249%
    Rehabilitation
  3. Rural tracks (inc. ferries)          4.8    0.4     11.8   5.2     0.3      0.3  109%    75%          3%
  4. Environmental action                 2.0    0.2      4.9           0.2             0%   100%          0%
  5. Bamako urban road                    0.0    3.0     25.6           0.9     17.5          30%        68%
  6. Studies, works supervision           3.5             6.1   4.9     0.4     22.9  140%              375%
  7. Equipment                                           5.9                     4.8                    81%
Subtotal                                 47.4   46.8    155.4  44.2    69.7     294.1  93%   149%       189%
C. Rail component
  1. Track rehabilitation (1st tranche)   6.9            14.2   5.2     3.1     16.9   76%              119%
  2. Freight terminal (Korofina)          3.2             1.4   4.8     0.3           151%                 0%
  3. Telecommunications                                   1.6                                              0%
  4. Rolling-stock rehabilitation                         6.8                                              0%
  5. Logistical equipment                                 4.0                                              0%
  6. Studies, work supervision            0.8                    0.8    0.1      0.4   94%
Subtotal                                 10.9    0.0     28.0  10.8     3.5     17.3   99%               62%
D. Air component
  1. Security Equipment ­ Timbuktu                        6.0           0.8     13.3                    222%
  2. Bamako ­ Senou                                       4.5                                              0%
  3. Interior Airports                                                  1.7      6.5
Subtotal                                         0.0     10.5           2.6     19.8                    188%
Total                                    65.0   46.8    193.9  59.5    75.8     338.1  92%   162%       174%




                                                       - 37 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) - 12/31/2004

Component                                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                                            Bank     Govt.      CoF.   Bank   Govt.      CoF.  Bank    Govt.    CoF.
A. Capacity building, Training
  1. Project management unit                                             0.7
  2. Training                                                            1.4
  3. Management development Transport                             1.0
    Department
  4. Management development Public works                          0.6            6.1
    Department
  5. Audit Compliance Program                                            0.8    0.01       0.8
Subtotal                                      6.7                        4.5    0.01       6.9  67%
B. Road component - Routes
  1. Routine maintenance                               39.0       1.4           77.1                   198%       0%
  2. Periodic maintenance / Rehabilitation   37.1       4.2       99.7  34.1     8.9     282.9  92%    213%     284%
  3. Rural tracks (inc. ferries)              4.8       0.4       11.8   5.2     0.3       0.3 109%     75%       3%
  4. Environmental action                     2.0       0.2       4.9            0.2             0%    100%       0%
  5. Bamako urban road                        0.0       3.0       25.6           0.9      17.5          30%      68%
  6. Studies, works supervision               3.5                 6.1    4.9     0.4      25.0 140%             411%
  7. Equipment                                                    5.9                     4.8                    81%
Subtotal                                     47.4      46.8      155.4  44.2    87.8     330.5  93%    188%     213%
C. Rail component
  1. Track rehabilitation (1st tranche)       6.9                 14.2   5.2     3.1      16.9  76%             119%
  2. Freight terminal (Korofina)              3.2                 1.4    4.8     0.3           151%               0%
  3. Telecommunications                                           1.6                                             0%
  4. Rolling-stock rehabilitation                                 6.8                                             0%
  5. Logistical equipment                                         4.0                                             0%
  6. Studies, work supervision                0.8                         0.8    0.1       0.4  94%
Subtotal                                     10.9       0.0       28.0  10.8     3.5      17.3  99%              62%
D. Air component
  1. Security Equipment ­ Timbuktu                                6.0            0.8      13.3                  222%
  2. Bamako ­ Senou                                               4.5            1.6                              0%
  3. Interior Airports                                                           1.7       6.5
Subtotal                                                0.0       10.5           4.1      19.8                  188%
Total                                        65.0      46.8      193.9  59.5    95.5     374.5  92%    204%     193%
US$1 = CFAF 600.0/April 18, 1994
US$1 = CFAF 602.7/December 31, 2004 (average during project life)




                                                      - 38 -

Variation in Project Financing by Component from Dec. 2001 to Dec. 2004 (in US$ million equivalent)

Components                                                                    Part of
                                                          Govt.      CoF.  Govt.   CoF.
A. Capacity building, Training (no variation)
  1. Project management unit
  2. Training
  3. Management development Transport Department
  4. Management development Public works Department
  5. Audit Compliance Program
Subtotal                                                     0         0     0       0


B. Road component ­ Routes
  1. Routine maintenance                                   18.1             31%
  2. Periodic maintenance / Rehabilitation                            34.3         14%
  3. Rural tracks (inc. ferries)
  4. Environmental action
  5. Bamako urban road
  6. Studies, works supervision                                        2.2          9%
  7. Equipment
Subtotal                                                   18.1       36.4  26%    12%


C. Rail component (no variation)
  1. Track rehabilitation (1st tranche)
  2. Freight terminal (Korofina)
  3. Telecommunications
  4. Rolling-stock rehabilitation
  5. Logistical equipment
  6. Studies, work supervision
Subtotal                                                     0         0     0       0


D. Air component
  1. Security Equipment ­ Timbuktu
  2. Bamako ­ Senou                                         1.6
  3. Interior Airports
Subtotal                                                    1.6             62%


Total                                                      19.7       36.4  26%    11%
US$1 = CFAF 600.0/April 18, 1994
US$1 = CFAF 602.7/December 31, 2004 (average value during project life)




                                                - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Methodology

The economic analysis was conducted using the Highway Development and Management (HDM-4) Model
developed by the World Bank. The model simulates life cycle road conditions and costs and provides
economic decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives, based on a road
characteristics, traffic, and agency and user costs. The analysis compares the incremental benefits and the
investment costs. Incremental benefits result from the variation in vehicle operating costs and road
maintenance costs between the with and without project situations. Without project, the road deteriorates
without periodic maintenance and/or rehabilitation.

Program of works

For the purpose of the economic and cost benefit analysis summary, road works were classified by type of
works and type of roads as listed below (see Table 1). The total length of roads within a given category of
road and type of road work was calculated as the sum of the lengths of all sections of roads pertaining to
this category. The traffic for the economic analysis was calculated as the average of traffic on each road
weighted by the length of the road.

Only road sections included in the 1994 evaluation report were analyzed to allow comparison between
economic benefits at appraisal and at completion; other sections for which additional financing was made
available during TSP implementation were not taken into account.

For the sections studied, investment made within the PST framework amounted to FCFA152 billion for a
total of 3500 km of road. On average, the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) on these roads amounted
to 354 vehicles per day.

Table 1 ­ Road Investments planned and realized within the PST framework
 Works                      Road Category       Total length    Total Cost      AADT        Average cost of
                                                   (km)       (FCFA million)   (veh/day)     works (FCFA
                                                                                              million/km)
 Periodic maintenance       Paved Road                 915       19,667.990      348               21.495
 Periodic maintenance       Earth Road                 538       34,942.836      535               64.950
 Periodic maintenance       Improved Tracks            375        5,859.151       62               15.624
 Rehabilitation             Paved Road                 522       15,829.689      733               30.325
 Rehabilitation             Earth Road                 797       34,083.757      405               42.765
 Rehabilitation             Improved Tracks            240       15,523.770      147               64.682
 Pavement of Bamako-Kouremale road                     126       26,148.000      250              207.524
                                                     3513       152,055.193      354              447.365
Source: Tecsult international, Mali PST Rapport d'achèvement, November 2004

Summary of Economic Analysis:

The results of the economic analysis are summarized in the following table which provides a summary of
the net benefits of the road works executed during TSP implementation. The overall Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) for the road component of the TSP and its Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 12% are
estimated respectively at 35.4% and USD 177 million.




                                                     - 40 -

Table 2 ­ Indicators Summary
Works                       Road Category            Net Present     Internal Rate of
                                                   Value (NPV)        Return (IRR)
Periodic maintenance        Paved Road                   93.969         92.8 %
Periodic maintenance        Earth Road                    1.444         14.7 %
Periodic maintenance       Improved Tracks                0.317         26.1 %
Rehabilitation             Paved Road                     77.22         61.3 %
Rehabilitation             Earth Road                    -1.226          9.4 %
Rehabilitation             Improved Tracks                2.039         37.3 %
Bituminizing of Bamako-Kouremale road                     3.284         19.5 %
                                     Total             177.047           35.4 %
NPV in US$ million

Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items

A sensitivity analysis was carried out considering a 20 percent reduction of benefits. The results of the
analysis are summarized in table3 below.

This sensitivity analysis shows that maintenance or rehabilitation works on paved roads or the pavement of
the Bamako-Kouremale road are still economically justified. The net present value for works on earth roads
and tracks becomes negative. The conclusion for the future is that great attention should be paid to the
design standard for this type of road which very often is not appropriate in view of the level of traffic.

Table 2 ­ Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
                                                             Basic Study      Benefits
                                                                                -20%
  Periodic maintenance     Paved Roads           NPV           93.969          71.170
                                                  IRR           92.8%          70.5%
                           Earth Roads           NPV            1.444          -4.323
                                                  IRR           14.7%           3.9%
                           Improved Tracks       NPV            0.317          -0.429
                                                  IRR           26.1%           N/A
  Rehabilitation           Paved Roads           NPV           77.222          58.578
                                                  IRR           61.2%          51.1%
                           Earth Roads           NPV            -1.226         -7.885
                                                  IRR           9.4%           -5.1%
                           Improved Tracks       NPV            2.039          -0.188
                                                  IRR           37.3%           9.7%
  Pavement of                     NPV            3.284          1.630
  Bamako-Kouremale road
                                                  IRR           19.5%          16.0%
  Total for the Whole             NPV           177.047        118.553
  project
                                                  IRR           35.4%          20.2%




                                                    - 41 -

Costs and benefits (Undiscounted - All figures in USD million)
     Year                    Periodic maintenance-Paved roads                   Periodic maintenance-Earth roads
                 Increase Decrease in       Net     Roughness    AADT  Increase Decrease in Net Benefits Roughness  AADT
                 in RAC        RUC        Benefits     (IRI)           in RAC     RUC                      (IRI)
                                                   (bituminous)                                          (unsealed)
     2005            -            -           -        12.21      359  16.761       -        -16.761       12.91    544
     2006        10.136           -       -10.136      12.45      370   0.163    10.197       10.034       7.84     553
     2007         9.823       14.550        4.727      4.00       381   0.163     5.271       5.108        10.87    562
     2008         2.898       15.350       12.452      4.31       392   0.163     2.386       2.223        12.43    571
     2009         2.898       16.130       13.232      4.46       404   0.163     1.452       1.289        12.92    580
     2010         2.898       16.945       14.047       4.6       416   0.163     1.323       1.160        12.99    589
     2011            -        17.803       17.803      4.71       429  16.816     1.323      -15.493       13.00    598
     2012            -        18.699       18.699      4.83       441   0.163    11.217       11.054       7.97     607
     2013            -        19.634       19.634      4.94       455   0.163     5.445       5.282        11.07    616
     2014            -        20.608       20.608      5.05       468   0.163     2.387       2.224        12.54    625
     2015            -        21.624       21.624      5.16       482   0.163     1.480       1.317        12.97    634
     2016            -        22.695       22.695      5.28       497   0.163     1.373       1.210        13.03    643
     2017            -        23.827       23.827      5.41       512  16.833     1.374      -15.459       13.04    652
     2018            -        25.016       25.016      5.54       527   0.163    14.236       14.073       8.09     661
     2019            -        26.267       26.267      5.67       543   0.163     5.618       5.455        11.25    670
     2020            -        27.582       27.582      5.82       559   0.163     2.302       2.139        12.64    679
     2021            -        28.965       28.965      5.97       576   0.163     1.423       1.260        13.02    688
     2022            -        30.022       30.022      6.14       593   0.163     1.332       1.169        13.06    697
     2023            -        30.628       30.628      6.31       611   0.163     1.335       1.172        13.07    706
     2024            -        31.140        31.14      6.49       629   0.163     1.343       1.180        13.07    715
RAC: Road Agency Costs, RUC: Road User Costs


     Year                  Periodic maintenance-Improved tracks                     Rehabilitation-Paved roads
                 Increase Decrease in Net Benefits Roughness      MT   Increase Decrease in    Net      Roughness   MT
                 in RAC        RUC                      (IRI)    AADT  in RAC     RUC       Benefits       (IRI)    AADT
                                                     (unsealed)                                        (bituminous)
     2005            -            -            -       14.06      64      -         -           -          11.22    755
     2006         2.547        0.212        -2.335     12.74      66      -         -           -          11.49    778
     2007         0.090        1.293        1.203       4.89      68      -         -           -          11.85    801
     2008         0.090        1.143        1.053       6.54      70    8.874       -        -8.874        12.2     825
     2009         0.090        0.91          0.82       8.59      72   18.254     0.865      -17.389       12.2     850
     2010         0.090        0.74          0.65       9.89      75      -      17.396      17.396        2.23     875
     2011         0.090        0.678        0.588      10.40      77      -      18.602      18.602        2.42     902
     2012            -         0.434        0.434      11.89      79      -      19.819      19.819        2.59     929
     2013            -        -0.337        -0.337     15.95      82      -      21.087      21.087        2.76     956
     2014         2.485        0.033        -2.452     14.06      84      -      22.413      22.413        2.92     985
     2015            -         1.599        1.599       5.18      87      -       23.78       23.78        3.08     1,015
     2016            -         1.166        1.166       8.32      89      -      25.149      25.149        3.26     1,045
     2017            -         0.407        0.407      12.34      92      -      26.472      26.472        3.43     1,076
     2018            -         0.046        0.046      16.10      95      -      27.843      27.843        3.62     1,109
     2019            -        -0.786        -0.786     18.65      97      -      29.283      29.283        3.81     1,142
     2020            -        -1.273        -1.273     20.07      100     -      30.981      30.981        4.01     1,176
     2021            -        -1.572        -1.572     20.85      103     -      33.108      33.108        4.22     1,212
     2022         2.485        0.045         -2.44     14.06      106     -      34.802      34.802        4.43     1,248
     2023            -         1.971        1.971       5.39      110     -      35.573      35.573        4.66     1,285
     2024            -         1.299        1.299       8.99      113     -      36.062      36.062        4.89     1,324




                                                           - 42 -

 Year                Rehabilitation-Earth roads                           Rehabilitation-Improved tracks
       Increase in Decrease in   Net    Roughness     MT  Increase in Decrease in   Net      Roughness    MT AADT
         RAC         RUC      Benefits      (IRI)    AADT   RAC         RUC       Benefits      (IRI)
                                         (unsealed)                                          (unsealed)
2005     9.576         -       -9.576      17.57     417      -           -           -        16.02       151
2006     9.576       6.922     -2.654      17.57     430    1.471         -       -1.471       19.72       156
2007     9.576       8.456     -1.12       17.57     443    1.472       1.483      0.011       15.28       161
2008     9.576       9.089     -0.487      17.57     456    1.474       2.800      1.326       15.34       165
2009     9.576       9.407     -0.169      17.57     470    1.476       2.195      0.719       15.41       170
2010       -        19.253    19.253       13.71     484    1.478       1.968      0.490       15.48       176
2011       -         1.806     1.806       20.91     498    1.480       1.900      0.420       15.55       181
2012       -         0.162     0.162       21.59     513    1.482       1.896      0.414       15.62       186
2013       -         0.014     0.014       21.65     528    1.484       1.917      0.433       15.70       192
2014       -         0.001     0.001       21.65     544    1.486       1.949      0.463       15.77       198
2015       -           -          -        21.65     561    1.489       1.984      0.495       15.84       203
2016       -           -          -        21.65     577    1.491       2.020      0.529       15.92       210
2017       -           -          -        21.65     595    1.493       2.057      0.564       16.00       216
2018       -           -          -        21.65     613    1.496       2.093      0.597       16.07       222
2019       -           -          -        21.65     631    1.498       2.131      0.633       16.15       229
2020       -           -          -        21.65     650    1.501       2.168      0.667       16.23       236
 2021      -           -          -        21.65     669    0.183       0.752      0.569       20.27       243
2022       -           -          -        21.65     689    0.186       0.764      0.578       20.30       250
2023       -           -          -        23.60     710    0.189       0.777      0.588       20.33       258
2024       -           -          -        21.65     731    0.192       0.789      0.597       20.37       266


  Year                            Pavement Bamako-Kouremale road
           Increase in    Decrease in      Net Benefits  Roughness (IRI)     MT AADT
              RAC             RUC                          (unsealed)
  2005           -               -               -           14.06               258
  2006        1.548              -            -1.548         14.06               265
  2007        1.548              -            -1.548         14.06               273
  2008        1.548              -            -1.548         14.06               281
  2009        1.548              -            -1.548         14.06               290
  2010        1.548              -            -1.548         14.06               299
  2011           -            2.240            2.240          3.25               307
  2012           -            2.269            2.269          3.56               317
  2013           -            2.320            2.320          3.69               326
  2014           -            2.371            2.371          3.83               336
  2015           -            2.423            2.423          3.97               346
  2016           -            2.475            2.475          4.11               356
  2017           -            2.527            2.527          4.25               367
  2018           -            2.580            2.580          4.4                378
  2019           -            2.632            2.632          4.56               389
  2020           -            2.683            2.683          4.73               401
  2021           -            2.732            2.732          4.92               413
  2022           -            2.775            2.775          5.14               426
  2023           -            2.810            2.810          5.39               438
  2024           -            2.834            2.834          5.69               452




                                                   - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1992              2    1 Highway Engineer
                                              1 Railway Engineer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1994                1    Highway Engineer

 Supervision
              October 1994,
              Project Launch
              May 1995                  1    1 Highway Engineer                 HS             HS
              February 1996             1    1 Highway Engineer                 HS             HS
              November 1996             1    1 Highway Engineer                 S              HS
              March 1997                2    1 Technical Manager,               S              HS
                                             1 Senior Highway Engineer
              March 1997                1    1 Senior Highway Engineer          S               S
                                             (Task Team Leader)
              October 1997              1    1 Highway Engineer                 S               S
              November 1998             2    1 Senior Highway Engineer          S               S
                                             1 Infrastructure Specialist
              March 1999                2    1 Senior Highway Engineer          S               S
                                             1 Financial Analyst
              June 1999                 1    1 Senior Highway Engineer          S               S
              June 1999                 3    1 Senior Financial Analyst         S               S
                                             1 Operation Officer,
                                             1 Engineer
              April 2001                3    1 Financial Analyst (Task Team     S               S
                                             Leader),
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Senior Highway Engineer
              November 2001             2    1 Senior Transport Economist       S               S
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
              June 2002                 2    1 Senior Transport Economist       S               S
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
              June 2003                 3    1 Senior Transport Economist       S               S
                                             1 Highway Engineer,
                                             1 Railway Specialist

 ICR
              March 2005                2     1 Sr Transport Economist,         S               S
                                              1 Consultant (ICR)




                                              - 44 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            47.6                          134.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 35.7                          109.2
  Supervision                          178.9                          661.6
  ICR                            Included in                     Included in
                                 supervision                     supervision
  Total                                262.2                          905.2




                                            - 45 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 Etude                                                                                         Durée         Année
 ETUDES DE SUIVI DE PROJETS
    Elaboration du Manuel de mise en oeuvre du PACT                                            1 mois        2004
    Elaboration du rapport d'achèvement du PST et étude de justification du PST2               5 mois        2004
    Développement du Manuel de procédures administratives, financières et comptables du        15 mois       1999
    PACT
 ETUDES DE POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE
    Etude de la restructuration de la Direction Nationale des Transports                       3 mois        2004
    Etude de restructuration des activités sécurité routière de la DNT                         45 jours      2003
    Définition d'un cadre de politique global pour le déplacement et la compensation de la     90 jours      2003
    population dans le secteur des transports au Mali
    Etude de création de l'AGEROUTE                                                                          2003
    Etude du plan social des aéroports du Mali                                                 60 jours      2003
    Etude de camionnage plus efficace                                                          2 mois        2002
    Etude des conditions d'exploitation du transport fluvial                                   4 mois        2002
    Etude de la restructuration de la DNT (aspect marine marchande)                            3 mois        2002
    Etude de l'impact social de la privatisation et d'un plan d'action                         45 jours      2001
    Etude pour la réorganisation de la DNTP                                                    60 jours      2001
    Mission d'Appui à la recherche de l'actionnariat de la Société du Dakar-Bamako             46 semaines   1998
    Etude de création d'un Fonds d'Entretien Routier                                           60 jours      1998
    Assistance à la Direction Nationale des Transports pour l'étude en vue de la refonte de la 6 mois        1996
    fiscalité routière au Mali
    Assistance à la DNT pour la relecture du code de la route                                  49 jours      1996
 ETUDES SUR LA CONCESSION DES CHEMINS DE FER
    Etude de justification économique du programme global des investissements à réaliser par 2 mois          2002
    la concession
    Evaluation de l'impact économique du plan social de la Régie du Chemin de Fer du Mali      2 mois        2002
    (RCFM)
 ETUDES BANQUE DE DONNEES ROUTIÈRES
    Restructuration de la base de données du PST                                               15 jours      2000
    - Sondages de chaussées et essais en laboratoire                                           150 jours     1997
    - Mesures au BUMP INTEGRATOR
    - Mesures de déflexions
    Assistance à la DNTP pour la poursuite des activités de la Banque de Données Routières     2 mois        1997
 FORMATION ET APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL
    Etude sur la formation et le perfectionnement des chauffeurs sur la conduite des           45 jours      2004
    semi-remorques et véhicules de transport collectif
    Etude sur la formation des agents des services de sécurité                                 45 jours      2004
    Préparation et mise en oeuvre d'un cycle supérieur de management de l'entretien routier    25 mois       1998
    Assistance technique au Centre de Perfectionnement des Transports et des Travaux Publics 24 mois         1998
    Etude d'Aménagement Ferroviaire de Bamako                                                                1998
 APPUI A L'UNITE DE COORDINATION
    Restructuration de la base de données du PST                                               15 jours       2000




                                                      - 48 -

ETUDES DE TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
  Etude de factibilité technico-économique et technique détaillée des travaux de            6 mois          2004
  construction de 607 km de pistes rurales prioritaires dans les régions de Koulikoro,
  Mopti, Tombouctou, et Gao
  Etudes diagnostique et technique avec DAO pour les travaux d'entretien périodique et/ou   5 mois et 1     2002
  de réhabilitation de la route revêtue Sévaré-Gao                                          semaine (5,25
                                                                                            mois)
  Etude des besoins d'entretien périodique et d'entretien courant annuel subséquent du      2 mois          2002
  réseau routier au Mali pour les années 2002, 2003 et 2004
  Etude de la classification administrative du réseau routier du Mali                       2 mois          2002
  Etudes diagnostique et techniques avec DAO pour les travaux d'entretien périodique et/ou 5 mois et 1      2002
  de réhabilitation de la route revêtue Sévaré-Gao                                          semaine (5,25
                                                                                            mois)
  Etudes techniques avec DAO pour les travaux d'entretien périodique et/ou réhabilitation   4 mois et 1     2002
  de la route revêtue Bamako-Bougouni                                                       semaine (4,25
                                                                                            mois)
  Etude de l'impact environnemental des travaux de réhabilitation de la voie PK. 771 ­ PK   3 semaines      2002
  821 (50 KM en renouvellement) ; PK. 821 ­ PK 875 (54KM en renouvellement) ;
  Dio-Bamako (34 KM en amélioration)
  Etudes d'Avant Projet Sommaire (APS) et d'Avant Projet Détaillé de la Piste Rurale        12 mois         1999
  Banamba-Niono (208 km)
  Etudes d'Avant Projet Sommaire (APS) et d'Avant Projet Détaillé de la Piste Rurale        12 mois         1999
  Nara-Niono (250 km)
  Etudes d'Avant Projet Sommaire (APS) et d'Avant Projet Détaillé (APD) de la Piste         8 mois          1999
  Rurale Djenne-Mougna-Say (55 km)
  Etude d'exécution de la traversée de la ville de Ségou par la Route nationale N°6 (RN6)   60 jours        1998
  Etudes techniques des travaux d'entretien périodique de la route non revêtue              150 jours       1996
  Konobougou-Baroueli (18 km) et de construction des pistes rurales Tamani-Baroueli (30
  km) et Falo-Bani-RN6 (40 km)
  Etudes techniques des travaux d'entretien périodique de : la route bitumée d'accès au     7 mois          1996
  Barrage de Selingué (52 km) et de la route non revêtue Bougouni-Manankoro (123 km)
  Etude d'exécution de la piste rurale San-Say                                              4 mois          1996
  Etudes techniques des travaux de refection des routes bitumées Koulouba-Kati (9 km),      7 mois          1996
  Bamako-Koulikoro (57 km) et d'entretien périodique de la route non revêtue
  Koulidoro-Banamba (90 km)
  Etudes techniques des travaux d'entretien périodique de la route bitumée Sikasso-Koutiala 270 jours       1996
  et de réfection de la route bitumée Koutiala-Sienso
  Etudes techniques des travaux d'entretien périodique de la route non revêtue Fana-Dioila  5 mois          1996
  (40 km) et de la piste améliorée Fana-Nangola (40 km)
  Etude route Kati-Kita                                                                                     1995
ETUDES DES TRAVAUX FERROVIAIRES
  Etude de l'impact environnemental des travaux de réhabilitation de la voie ferrée        3 semaines       2002




                                                   - 49 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 25497

                       12°                                             10°                                            8°                                       6°                          To Taoudenit  4°                                    2°                                0°                                         2°                                      4°
                                                                             M A L I
                                        TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
                                      PROJET SECTORIEL TRANSPORTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To Tamanrasset

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A L G E R I A
                                  WORKS PLANNED FOR UNDER THE PROJECT
                                  TRAVAUX PROGRAMMES DANS LE PROJET



                                  FERRIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tessali
                                  BACS PROGRAMMES DANS LE PROJET
 20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20°
                                  ROADS RECONSTRUCTED UNDER THE FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ti-n-Zaouâtene
                                  ROUTES RECONSTRUITES DANS LE CADRE DU CINQUIEME PROJET ROUTIER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aquelho
                                  REGIONAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORKS                                FEEDER ROADS IMPROVED UNDER FIRST
                                  DIRECTION REGIONALE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                               AND THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECTS
                                                                                                      ROUTES DE DESSERTE AMELIOREES DANS
                                                                                                        LE CADRE DES 1eme ET 3eme PROJETS ROUTIERS
                                  SUBDIVISIONS OF PUBLIC WORKS
                                  SUBDIVISIONS DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                         l    l     RAILROAD                                                                                                   Araouan
                                                                                                      CHEMIN DE FER


                                  PAVED ROADS
                                  ROUTES REVETUES                                                     NAVIGABLE RIVER (JULY-DECEMBER)
                                                                                                      RIVIERE NAVIGABLE (JUILLET-DECEMBRE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KIDA

                                  ENGINEERED EARTH ROADS
                                  ROUTES EN TERRE MODERNES                                            FLOOD AREA
 18°                                                                                                  ZONE D'INONDATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aéfi                                                                            18°
                                  EARTH ROADS                                                         INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
                                  ROUTES EN TERRE ORDINAIRES                                          AEROPORT INTERNATIONAL


                                  IMPROVED TRACKS                                                     NATIONAL AIRFIELDS
                                  PISTES AMELIOREES                                                   PISTES D'ATTERISSAGE NATIONALES


                                  UNIMPROVED TRACKS                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                 Boure
                                  PISTES NON-AMELIOREES                                               FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOMBOUCTOU                         Gourma-Rharous         NIGER


                                                                                                                                                                                                       Goundam

                                                                                                                                                                                                                DIRE                                                                 GA
 16°                                                                                               M A U R I T A N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Niafounké                                                   Dor                                                                Menak                                     16°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Goss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Banbara-Maoundé
                                                                                     Gogui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kersan                                                ANSONG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Andéramboukan
                               Nagara                                                                  Ballé                                                                                                   Korientzé
                                                                                 NIORO                                                                             Nampala                                                  Tanal              Hombor

                                                                 Youri                                                                NARA                                                                     Bor
                               Aourou                 Yélimané                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Labbezang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bon
                                                                                                                      Goumbo                                                                                Kona                DOUENTZA
                    SENEGAL                       Maréna        Sandaré                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N I G E R
 Dakar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To Niamey
      oT                                                                                Diéma                                                             Sokol
                  ll   l  l                   Ségala                                                                              Mourdiah                                       Tenenkou      MOPT     SEVARE
         l                   l
                                 l                                                Diagounté
Kidira                  KAYES                 Gangonteri                          Kamara                                                                                                                          Bandiagara
                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                     l                           Séfeto                                                                                             Niono                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kor
                           Diamou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
                                       l                                          Baoulé                                         Boron                                                      Djenn                    Bankass                                                                            or acceptance of such boundaries.                                          14°
                           Sadiola      l
                                          l       Bafoulabé                    Kourouninkoto                       Didiéni                                                    Macina
                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                        To Ouagadougou
                                      Mahinall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2°                                      4°
                                                  l                                Bati-Makana                                                                                 Say
                                                     l                                                                                     Toukoroba
                           Dialafara                    l                            Namala                         KOLOKANI
                                                   Oualia   l  l       Manbiri                                                                                    Markala
                                                                   l                    Tafassadaga         Massantola             Banamba                                                      Kersedougo
                              Falémé                                  l
                                              Djiboura       Toukoto     l                                                                     NIGER                                                                                                                                      FORMER
                                                                                                                                  Nyamina                      SEGOU
                                                                            l                Madina                                                                                                                                                                                       SPANISH
                                                                                                                                                 Taman                        Bani      SA                                                                                                SAHARA
                                                                              l                                                 Sirakorola
                                               Manantali   Bafing                       Badinko    Faladyé
                                                                          KITA  ll  l                                 Nossombougou                        Sanand
                                                                         Bakoye             lSébé Koro Négala                                                                 Diaramana
          SENEGAL                        Kéniéba          Tambaga                             l   l                                                            Fal
                                                                                                    l  l                        KOULIKORO                                Bl                                                                                                                                                                                           Tamanrasset
                                                                                                           l                                      Barouél                                Kimparana
                                                                                                              l   Kati         l
                                                                                       Sirakoro                  l     l l    l                Fan
                    Satadougau                                            Galé                       BAMAKO        l l Faladié
                                               Kourokoto                                                                                                                                                                B U R K I N A                    F A S O
                                                                                                                                                                    KOUTIALA
                                                 Faraba  Kourague                                       Siby            Sanankoroba       Dioil
                                                                                             Naréna                                                          Banifing                                                                                                                                MAURITANIA
                                                                       Baléya
12°                                                                                                                                                                                 Kouri
                                                                                                                        Ouéléssébougou                                            Faramana                                                                                          12°
                                                                                     Kourémalé               KANGABA                  Dogo         Massigui                                     To Bobo-Dioulasso                                                                                                                        M A L I
                                                                                                       Sélingué
                                                                                                     Bamankoro                  Sido                                                                                            50      100      150    200      250 KILOMETERS                                 Nema                           Tombouctou
                                                                                                                                                     Bagoé
                                                                                                                                        BaouléKouale
                                                                                                                 BOUGOUNI                                   Niena                                                                                                                                                                                                           N I G E R
                                                                                               NIGER
                                                                                                                          Faragouran          Kébila            SIKASSO
                                                                                                     Badogo        Yanfolila                    KOLONDIEBA
                                                                                                                                    Garalo                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Niamey
                                                                                                                                                                                To Bobo-Dioulasso
                                                                                                 To Kankan         Yorobougoula                          Kadiana                                                                                                                           SENEGAL
                                                                                                                  Kalana                                                                                                                                                                                           Bamako                BURKINA FASO
                        G U I N E A                                                                                                 Manankoro                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ouagadougou
                                                                                                                                                                  Zegoua                                                                            G H A N A                                                                                                             N I G E R I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                            To                                                                                                                                                                            TOGO  BENIN

10°                12°                                              10°                                                      To Odienne                              Ouangolodougou                          4°                                      2°                               0°                           CÔTE D'IVOIRE       10°    GHANA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 1994

