Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2617 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                        (Transport Sector Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 8, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2617 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received letters dated November 1993
and April 26, 1994, describing a program of policies, goals, and actions
designed to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's transport sector (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the
Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to carry the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by Regie du Chemin de
Fer du Mali (RCFM) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to RCFM a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other donors,
including the European Development Fund, the West African Development Bank,
the African Development Fund, the Islamic Development Bank, the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund, and the Governments of France,
Germany and Canada, to assist in financing the Project; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and RCFM;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and RCFM pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) and (d) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "RCFM" means the Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali;
      (d)   "SNCS" means the Societe de Chemins de Fer du Senegal;
      (e)   "DNT" means the Borrower's Direction Nationale des Transports;
      (f)   "DNTP" means the Borrower's Direction Nationale des Travaux
Publics;
      (g)   "ADM-ASECNA" means Aeroports du Mali - Agence pour la Securite
de la Navigation Aerienne en Afrique et Madagascar;
      (h)   "AGETIPE-Mali" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet
Public pour l'Emploi du Mali;
      (i)   "CPTP" means the Borrower's Centre de Perfectionnement des
Transports et des Travaux Publics;
      (j)   "SMTP" means the Borrower's Service du Materiel des Travaux
Publics;
      (k)   "CNREX" means the Borrower's Centre National de Recherche et
d'Experimentation pour les Travaux Publics;
      (l)   "BDMSA" means Banque de Developpement du Mali S.A.;
      (m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali (RCFM), of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
      (n)   "CCIM" means Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Mali.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-six million
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Page  3
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60)
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
2004 and ending April 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. RCFM is designated as representative of the Borrower in
respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial practices and
                  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for such Parts of
                  the Project; and
            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause RCFM to perform all its obligations
                  set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause
                  to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable RCFM to perform such obligations,
                  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
                  would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall re-lend out of the proceeds of the Credit the
amount allocated to Category (1) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement to RCFM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and RCFM, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia,
a repayment period of twenty years, including a grace period not to exceed
ten years, an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum, and provisions
requiring RCFM to bear the foreign exchange risk.
      (d)   The Borrower shall make available to RCFM out of the proceeds
of the Credit the amount allocated to Categories (1)(b) and (3)(b) of the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as a Grant.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
Page  5
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by
RCFM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than July 15 of each year, submit to the Association
for its approval, and to other donors intervening in the transport sector,
its investment program for the transport sector for the next three years,
which shall not, unless the Association agrees otherwise, include any
investment not specified in the Program;
      (b)   (i)   make annual allocations in its budget for road routine
                  maintenance, in amounts at least equal to the figures in
                  the table in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
                  and
           (ii)   deposit the funds so allocated, in monthly tranches, into
                  an account in a commercial bank for the purpose of
                  advancing funds exclusively for the routine road
                  maintenance;
      (c)   take all necessary actions to ensure that, for the duration of
Project implementation, at least 75 percent of total road routine
maintenance work is performed by private contractors;
      (d)   not later than two years after the Effective Date:      (i)
implement the recommendations of the road-users taxation study to be carried
out under Part D.5 of the Project, and (ii) complete the technical studies
on road rehabilitation and maintenance to be carried out under Part A.1 of
the Project;
      (e)   not later than: (i) six months after the Effective Date, launch
campaigns for vehicle inspection and registration renewal, to be carried out
by private specialized firms, and (ii) eighteen months after the Effective
date, publish the results of such inspection and registration renewal
campaigns, and strengthen its regulatory framework to ensure better
compliance with inspection and registration requirements; and
      (f)   not later than one year after the Effective Date, carry out
technical and financial audits of CNREX.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   have its account No. 267-503L, in BDMSA, for road maintenance,
audited every six months, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
and
      (b)   cause the private operator referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement to have its records, accounts and financial
statements in respect of Part A of the Project, audited every six months,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the Project.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrowers shall
furnish, or cause to be furnished, as the case may be, to the Association
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying the
Program and the Project, in such details as the Association shall reasonably
request.
      Section 3.07. Without any limitation to or restriction upon its other
reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than thirty months after the Effective Date or such
other date as the Association and the Borrower shall agree upon, carry out
and cause RCFM to carry out with the Association a midterm review of the
implementation of the Project to: (i) review the progress achieved in
Page  6
carrying out the Project, taking into account, inter alia, the evolution of
the key implementation monitoring indicators referred to in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and recommend corrective measures eventually
required for further implementation of the Project; (ii) monitor the
implementation of the contrat-plan referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (iv) and
3 (b) (vi) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) evaluate RCFM's
performance in carrying out its business plan referred to in paragraph 3
(b) (iv) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iv) update the Borrower's road
maintenance program taking into account, inter alia, the degree of road
deterioration and results of technical studies completed under Part A.1 of
the Project; (v) recommend additional actions eventually required to improve
cost recovery in the transport sector; and (vi) update the financing plan
for further implementation of the Program;
      (b)   not later than six weeks prior to such review, furnish to the
Association for its review and comments a report in such details as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of progress
achieved in Project implementation; and
      (c)   based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an
action plan, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of
the Project and shall thereafter implement such action plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
Page  7
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have failed to implement the Program, or a
significant part thereof;
      (b)   RCFM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that RCFM will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)   any legislative or regulatory text concerning RCFM shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of RCFM to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
      (e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RCFM or for
the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established an equipment rental company, with
legal status and organization satisfactory to the Association, to rent out
equipment currently managed by SMTP;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted regulation prohibiting dumping of used
oil into storm drains, sewers or watercourses, lakes, and ponds;
      (c)   the Borrower has entered into technical assistance contracts,
satisfactory to the Association, to: (i) strengthen DNT's general studies
and planning capacities and enhance its transport monitoring function, and
(ii) set up a Project implementation monitoring system;
      (d)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement have
been hired for a period of a least three years, and an accounting system,
which shall be satisfactory to the Association and adequate to satisfy the
requirements of said Section 4.01, has been established;
      (e)   the Borrower has prepared standard bidding documents for the
purposes of the Project, in accordance with the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank; and
Page  8
      (f)   the contract for vehicles inspection referred to in Section 3.04
(e) of this Agreement has been signed.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by RCFM, and is legally binding upon RCFM in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and RCFM and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and RCFM in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Trade of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIFINANCE               2559 MJ
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MALI
                        By /s/ Siragatou Ibrahim Cisse
                        Authorized Representative
Page  9
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                        Regional Vice President
                        Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                                90%
    (a)  under Part A         25,420,000
         of the Project
    (b)  under Part B.2        4,180,000
         of the Project
    (c)  under Part B.3        1,920,000
         of the Project
(2) Equipment:                                  100%
    (a)  under Part A of         930,000
         the Project
    (b)  under Part C of         850,000
         the Project
(3) Consultants' services,                      100%
    studies and training:
    (a)  under Part A of       2,060,000
         the Project
    (b)  under Part B.1          500,000
         of the Project
    (c)  under Part C.1          780,000
         of the Project
    (d)  under Parts C.2,      2,270,000
         C.3, C.4 and C.5
         of the Project
(4) Operating Costs under        150,000        100%
    Part C.4 of the Project
(5) Unallocated                7,040,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     46,100,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Schedule the term "operating
costs" means costs incurred by the Project Coordinator under the Project on
account of local staff salaries and allowances, operation and maintenance
of vehicles and equipment, and supplies and services.
Page  10
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under
Categories (1)(b), (1)(c) and (3)(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, until: (i) the Borrower and the Government of Senegal have agreed
on a joint action plan, satisfactory to the Association, on the technical
and commercial integration of international freight rail transport services
of RCFM and SNCS on the Dakar/Bamako route, (ii) Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and RCFM has been signed, (iii) a new legal status for
RCFM, acceptable to the Association, has been adopted, (iv) RCFM's Board of
Directors has adopted a business plan for 1994-1998, acceptable to the
Association, (v) RCFM has adopted a staff reduction program acceptable to
the Association, (vi) a contrat-plan for 1995-1997, acceptable to the
Association, has been signed between the Borrower and RCFM, including, inter
alia, detailed mechanisms for the financing of RCFM's staff reduction
program; and (vii) the Borrower and RCFM have entered into agreements
acceptable to the Association, for the operation of domestic railway
passengers lines to be maintained for public purposes, and the Borrower has
made necessary allocations in its 1995 national budget for corresponding
compensation to RCFM.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, and contracts for
works not exceeding $150,000, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving
sectoral efficiency and rehabilitating and maintaining essential transport
infrastructure.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Roads
1.  Rehabilitation and maintenance of the Borrower's priority road network,
including: (a) improvement of environmental and safety conditions along
roads; (b) consultants' services for supervision of works, management
contracts; and (c) technical studies on road rehabilitation and maintenance.
2.  Improvement of accessibility of agricultural areas through: (a)
construction and maintenance of feeder roads; and (b) acquisition of two
ferries.
Part B:   Railways
1.  Studies and short term technical assistance to improve traffic
organization and to facilitate technical and commercial integration of
international freight services of RCFM and SNCS on the Dakar/Bamako route.
2.  Execution of the first five-year tranche of the Borrower's ten-year
program for the rehabilitation of the Diboli/Bamako railway track.
3.  Transfer of the RCFM's freight terminal from Bamako-Centre to Korofina-
Sud.
Part C:   Capacity-Building
    Capacity-building assistance, for the strengthening and modernization
of the Borrower's transport management capacities and the reorganization of
transport services, including:
1.   Strengthening DNT's general studies and planning capacities through,
inter alia: (a) reorganization and computerization of DNT's operations; (b)
setting up of a monitoring unit to establish and maintain a transport data
Page  11
bank; (c) carrying out vehicle inspection and registration renewal, and
computerization of vehicles registration; (d) carrying out information
activities to sensitize freight carriers on sectoral issues and policies;
and (e) acquisition of office equipment.
2.  Support to DNTP for: (a) its reorganization including, inter alia, the
overhaul and computerization of its accounting systems and training of its
staff; (b) the setting up and operation of road network management systems
and strengthening of its network management unit; (c) the establishment,
testing and maintenance of a road data bank; and (d) the establishment of
an investment programming system.
3.  Support to CPTP for: (a) the expansion of its activities to include
training of private sector operators; (b) implementation of training
programs, including training courses provided locally and abroad, and
specialized seminars on relevant topics such as environmental aspects of
road construction and maintenance.
4.  Support to the Project Coordinator, including short-term technical
assistance to develop and operate a Project implementation monitoring
system, and logistical support.
5.  Studies, including: (a) a review of the legal and regulatory framework
of transport activities, aiming at improving the legal environment for
private sector participation in the sector; and (b) a study of the road-user
taxation system with a view to improve the recovery of road maintenance and
rehabilitation costs.
                              *      *      *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
    (c)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
Page  12
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items, or groups of items, for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Items, or groups of items, for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$750,000, may be procured either: (a) under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association; or (b) through the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.  Contracts for routine road maintenance works to be executed by private
contractors and to be financed by the Borrower, may be awarded on the basis
of Agetipe-Mali's manual of procedures in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.  Contracts for Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to cost an aggregate
amount exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, shall not be awarded unless the
financing of the rehabilitation of the Bamako-Diboli railway track has been
secured.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and each contract awarded under
Part B.2 of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
Page  13
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  Coordination. The Project will be implemented by the Borrower's ministry
in charge of equipment and transport, through its specialized
departments/agencies. A Coordinating Committee (CC), including
representatives of the Borrower's ministries responsible for finance,
transport and for public works, RCFM, ADM-ASECNA, and CCIM, will be
established to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Project.
2.  Executing Agencies/Departments. (a) DNTP will be responsible for the
implementation of Parts A and C.2 of the Project; (b) Road maintenance works
under Part A of the Project will be carried out by private contractors; (c)
Management of contracts with private contractors for routine road
maintenance will be delegated to a private operator, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association; (d) DNT will be in charge of Parts
C.1 and C.5 of the Project; (e) RCFM will implement Part B of the Project;
and (f) Part C.3 of the Project will be carried out by CPTP.
3.  Project Coordinator. Under the supervision of the CC, the Project
Coordinator will: (a) assist the executing departments/ agencies in handling
procurement and disbursement procedures; (b) be responsible for the
coordination of reports and audits preparation; and (c) organize annual
donors meetings for the monitoring of the implementation of the Project.
4.  Key Implementation Monitoring Indicators.
    (a)   Road maintenance:
          -     length (km) of paved and earth roads annually maintained
                (periodic and routine maintenance);
          -     maintenance by Force Account/Maintenance by Contractors;
          -     trees planting (number of trees, length of road square
                hectares);
          -     road data (km);
    (b)   SMTP:
          -     annual operating income; part from force account/part from
                private sector;
    (c)   Training:
          -     number of days of training/year;
          -     number of beneficiaries/year (private sector/public
                sector); and
Page  14
    (d)   DNT:
          -     number of vehicles re-registered; and
          -     number of vehicles inspected.
5.  Minimal Budgetary Allocations for Road Routine Maintenance.
                   ($ million in constant 1993 dollars)
    1994        1995        1996        1997        1998
    6.1         6.5         6.9         7.0         7.2
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (b), (3) (a),
(3) (c), (3) (d) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and tobe financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Page  15
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
