Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4312-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
March 22, 1983
Energy Department (Petroleum Projects)
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
PR's/US$       US$/PR's
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch (in)                            =    2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 kilometer (km) = 1,000 meters (m)  =    0.621 miles (mi)
1 sguare kilometer (km2)               =    100 hectares (ha) = 0.3861 sq miles
1 barrel (bbl)                         =    42 US gallons = 159.0 liters
BD                                     =    barrel per day
SCF                                     =    Standard cubic feet
MCF                                     =    1,000 standard cubic feet (SCF) of gas
MMCF                                         1 million SCF
MMCFD                                   =    1 million SCF daily
1 BCF                                  =    1 billion SCF
1 TCF                                  =    1 trillion SCF
1 ton (T)                                    1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,205 pounds
Tpy                                     =    ton per year
1 ton of crude oil equivalent (TOE)          1.0 ton of crude oil
=    41 MCF of natural gas
BTU                                     =    British thermal unit
1 kilocalorie (Kcal)                   =    3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
BHP                                     =    Brake horse power
1 kilowatt-hour                        =    1,000 watts-hour
1 megawatt  (MW)                       =    1,000 kilowatts (KW)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)                  =    1 million kWh
OAPI                                   =    American Petroleum Institute (API) degrees
gravity
psi                                    =    pounds per square inch
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                         Asian Development Bank
CIDA                        Canadian International Development Agency
D&M                         DeGolyer & MacNaughton
DGER                        Director/Directorate General of Energy Resources
EEC                         European Economic Community
GDC                         Gas Development Corporation
GOP                         Government of Pakistan
LPG                         Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGL                         Natural Gas L:iquids
OGDC                        Oil and Gas D,evelopment Corporation
POL                         Pakistan Oilfields Ltd
PPL                         Pakistan Petroleum Ltd
SGTC                        Sui Gas Transmission Company
SML                         Sui Main Limestone
SNGPL                       Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
USAID                       United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA                       Water & Power Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



- i -                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I s        ENERGY oSECLTOR ................................................... @ v. I             
Background .. . . . .........................                                 1
Energy Consumption. ................... .1
Energy Resources and Supply .. . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .a .               2
Energy Sector Organization and Planning ..................... 3
Energy Prospects  * . ..... .a. .a..          .    .      .    .......   4
Energy Pricing........................a ... .e ........ .6
II.        NATURAL GAS SUB-SECTOR ..............................  a . e......a 7
Gas Reserves and Production.                                                  7
Development of the Gas Network .................                    ........ 8
Gas Pricing           ................................... a........ ... 9
Gas Demand and Supply Projections .......................... ll
Gas Development Plan  .... . se         .       * e   .. . .  a .....a.......a...  .11
Additional Gas Supplies and Gas Demand Management .......... 12
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy  ...               ....... ...a... ;13
III. THE PROJECT ...15
Background ........................... e . . . . . . .     . . .  a a  a * a a . a a  ....,   . .15
Incremental Gas Supplies ...........................  15
SNGPL V Project Objectives .............................. .16
Project Description                   . ....................................e a  17
Project Implementation and Schedule ........................ 18
Project Cost Estimate ..................... . .19
Items Proposed for Bank financing......................21
Procurement.... .so  .................              ......... 23
Disbursements                   ............              . a  e a  a....... 23
Ecology and Safety ................... 24
IV.        THE BORROWER ........... a                  . .a. ....a.a   .....a.a...a.a..  25
General.       . ....a.a.a......... a a a a a...a.a....25
Organization and Management                .....        .......a.a..... a 25
Staffing and Training. ...a, aa. .............................  a a a a a a  26
Accounting and Audit ..... o. ..  a..a..       a....aaa.a..a.a.a.a..a       . a26
Management Information System                     .............................. .26
Insurance         ......      .       ..........................a.a . . . a27
This report has been prepared by Messrs. K. Palmer, P. Jinek, S. Moussa,
J. Ristorcelli, of the Energy Department, and Z. Alahdad, Consultant.
This doCument has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciPients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.      FINANCIAL  ASPECTS ....... ........................................ 27
Introductiono ......... o..............................  27
Past  Performance  .............   ......  ................  27
Penalties ..............  .. . ..................... ,   .  30
Financial Prospects ........ ...... . .................... ..30
VI.     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .............. - ................. . . ...... -34
Economic  Benefits.... ........ ........................ o ..34
Economic   Costs  ......... ... .  ............ . *. . ........* *  *.35
Economic Rate of Return ........................... ... 35
Project Risks ......    *****@**t**@X§***3
VII.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS...............  36
ANNEXES
1.01     Energy Consumption by Sector (FY73-82)
1.02     Energy Supply by Source (FY73-82)
1.03     Power Generation Program - Sixth Plan (FY84-88)
2.01     Summary of Raw Gas Analysis
2.02     Proved Gas Reserves
2.03     Possible Gas Reserves
2.04     The Principal Gas Fields and Their Production Potential
2.05     Production of Gas by Agency
2.06     Gas Consumption by Sector
2.07     Development of the Gas Transmission Network
2.08     Gas Consumer Prices
2.09     Comparative Summary of Prices of Natural Gas and Competing Fuels
2.10     Historical Movements in Gas Producer Prices
2.11     Gas Supply and Demand Projections
2.12     Gas Development Plan - Phasing of Projects
3.01     Project Description
3.02     Project Cost Estimate
3.03     Phasing of Expenditure
3.04     SNGPL Investment Program
4.01     SNGPL List of Shareholders
4.02     SNGPL Organization Chart
5.01     Financial Statements
5.02     Current Gas Tariffs
5.03     Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
5.04     Covenants from LN 1107 PAK (SNGPL IV)
6.01     List of Documents in Project File
Maps
IBRD No. 16906R: PAKISTAN - Natural Gas Pipeline Systems
IBRD No. 16907R: PAKISTAN - Transmnission System of Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Ltd.



I. ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.01     In FY 82 consumption of commercial energy in Pakistan was 13.7 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent (TOE), which is about one-tenth of the world aver-
age per capita consumption and only one half that of the per capita consump-
tion of all developing countries. Commercial energy accounts for about 60% of
the total, while the balance is derived from non-commercial sources mainly
firewood, dungcake, bagasse and other vegetable residues.
1.02     Commercial energy consumption over the decade ending FY 82 increased
at an annual rate of 7%. Over the same period domestic commercial energy sup-
ply increased at roughly the same rate with the share of natural gas and hydro
electricity in total supply increasing from 51% to 58% and that of oil drop-
ping from 40% to 36%. Despite the relatively high growth in domestic supply
of natural gas and hydroelectricity the gap between domestic supply and demand
for commercial energy continued to grow in absolute terms with a consequent
increase in net oil imports. Net oil imports in FY 81 totalled 4.1 million
TOE, equivalent to 31% of total commercial energy supply and 85% of total oil
supply. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products totalled US$1.6 billion,
equivalent to 25% of total imports.
1.03     In recent years inadequate growth of domestic energy supply has
become an increasingly serious constraint to economic growth. Severe seasonal
load-shedding of both natural gas and electricity supplies has disrupted
industrial production and increased costs. Energy supply and demand forecasts
prepared for the Government of Pakistan (GOP) suggest that these constraints
will worsen significantly in the absence of vigorous government initiatives.
Net oil imports without such initiatives are projected to increase to over 7.8
million TOE in FY 88 and to 16.3 million TOE by FY93. This would impose a
severe pressure on the balance of payments that could seriously impair the
prospects for continued rapid economic growth.
1.04     Against this background GOP has instituted a range of policy initia-
tives designed to accelerate the exploration and development of domestic
energy resources and to facilitate greater private sector participation in the
financing and implementation of energy projects. It is also seeking to
strengthen its institutional capability to plan and implement energy sector
programs.
Energy Consumption
1.05     Out of total commercial energy consumption in FY82 of 13.7 million
TOE industry accounted for 31%, transport 20%, power 17%, and residential
users 13%. The sectoral allocation of commercial energy consumption is
described in detail in Annex 1.01. The residential sector is characterized by
high dependence on non-commercial energy. Rural households rely on firewood
and animal and vegetable wastes to fuel 85% of their energy needs. However,
despite their low level of commercial fuel use, they account for almost 90% of
the country's total kerosene consumption. Energy use in agriculture is pri-
marily for lifting water and fuel for farm implements. Commercial energy use



- 2 -
in agriculture has grown very slowly over the past decade (1.5% p.a.) and
accounts for only 5% of total consumption. The industrial sector is a major
user of natural gas and electricity. Natural gas is the dominant source of
energy for process heating and steam raising in all industries except sugar
(which uses bagasse) and brick manufacture (which uses coal). Electricity
provides over 75% of industry's motive power needs.  The transport sector,
while accounting for only 20% of commercial energy use, uses over 60% of total
petroleum products. Aviation fuels, gasoline and furnace oil (for bunkering)
each comprise roughly 20% of the petroleum consumed in the transport sector
with the remainder consisting of high speed diesel.  In power, hydroelectric-
ity accounts, on average, for about 55-60% of total power generated although
there is a marked seasonal variation. Up to now almost all thermal power
stations have been fired on natural gas but, with recent gas shortages, con-
versions to fuel oil are taking place and much of the future thermal genera-
tion is expected to be coal or fuel oil fired.
1.07     For the period FY 74-81 the average energy consumption to GDP ratio
was 1.33, and in the absence of strong conservation measures this ratio is not
expected to change over the 1980's. However, recent work by energy consul-
tants to GOP indicates that aggressive demand management programs could reduce
this ratio to about 1.2 by the end of the decade. This would result in a net
energy saving by FY 93 of about 3 million TOE per year and would be the
largest single contributor to reducing energy supply-demand imbalances in the
economy. Recently, GOP has initiated new measures to encourage greater
efficiency of energy use particularly the loss reduction campaign by WAPDA,
increased consumer prices for natural gas and a program of- energy audits and
conservation studies in the industrial sector. So far, however, these mea-
sures have been ad hoc; there is a need for a more coordinated national pro-
gram of energy demand management and conservation utilizing both price and
non-price instruments.
Energy Resources and Supply
1.08     Total commercial energy supply during FY 82 was 14.0 million TOE of
which about 4 million TOE was imported oil. Natural gas was the major contri-
butor to supply (42%) followed by hydel (16%) with other domestic fuels con-
tributing only minor amounts.  Details are provided in Annex 1.02.
1.09     Natural Gas.  Pakistan has substantial proven gas reserves recently
estimated at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Production in FY 82 was 323 bil-
lion cubic feet (BCF) with over 80% of total gas production from a single
field, Sui. Gas in Pakistan is a very low cost source of fuel and rapid
growth in production over the past decade has made an important contribution
to limiting oil imports. The gas sub-sector is described in more detail in
Chapter II.
1.10     Oil.  Known domestic oil reserves are modest with recoverable
reserves estimated at about 90-100 million barrels. These estimates are sub-
stantially lower than previous estimates due principally to the downward revi-
sion of estimated reserves in the largest field at Meyal. Since 1977, when
the Government introduced more attractive terms for exploration and develop-
ment by private oil companies, exploration activity has increased but with the
discovery to date of only one small field. In FY 82 production was about
10,800 BD primarily from the Meyal field in the northern Potwar basin.  In the



-3-
next few years production is expected to increase as programs to accelerate
development of proven fields are implemented, but the country will remain
dependent on imports for over 80% of its oil consumption. Further increases
will depend on significant new oil discoveries. GOP has taken steps to accel-
erate exploration by both the public and private sectors. The prospect for
additional discoveries are good although new fields are likely to be small.
1.11     Electric Power.  In FY 82, the installed hydel generating capacity
was 1847 MW from which 9.4 billion KWH were generated accounting for 16.2% of
commercial energy supply and 54% of total power generated. Current investment
plans envisage a total increment in hydel capacity of about 1,050 MW by mid-
1985, a further 1,825 MW between 1985 and 1990 and 1,760 MW from Kalabagh by
the mid-1990s. These increases would maintain the share of hydel in total
power generation at its present level. The installed capacity of thermal
power plants in FY 82 was 2122 MW from which 8.0 billion KWH were generated.
During the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY 84-88), GOP plans to increase installed
thermal power capacity by 2,600 MW. Details are given in Annex 1.03.
1.12     Coal and Nuclear.  Total recoverable reserves of coal are estimated
at 640 million tons, of which only 20% are proven. Most of the proven coal
reserves are of poor quality, and their economic potential is uncertain. Coal
production of 1.65 million tons p.a. (90% of which is used for brick making)
supplied only 5.4% of commercial energy in FY 82. The share of coal in domes-
tic commercial energy supply has declined continuously over the past twenty
years because of an abundance of inexpensive natural gas. In view of the
emerging gas shortages, GOP is now placing greater emphasis on the exploration
and development of domestic coal and increasing attention is also being given
to the use of imported coal. Pakistan has one operational nuclear power sta-
tion (137 MW) which provided 0.3% of commercial energy supplies in FY 82; a
second 900 MW unit is planned to be commissioned in the early 1990's.
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
1.13     Operational responsibility for the various energy sub-sectors in
Pakistan is divided among several public and private sector entities. The Oil
and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) is the public sector entity responsible
for oil and gas exploration and development. A number of international oil
companies are exploring for petroleum under joint venture concession agree-
ments with OGDC and GOP. The national private sector companies involved in
oil and gas production are Pakistan Petroleum Ltd (PPL) and Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd (POL). POL accounts for most domestic oil production (from Meyal) and PPL
produces most of the gas (from Sui). There are three oil refineries in
Pakistan,two in the private sector, and one in the public sector; two of the
three oil distribution and marketing companies are also State-owned. Natural
gas purification, transmission and distribution functions are largely in the
public sector. The Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC) purifies Sui gas and
transmits it to the south of the country where it is distributed by public
sector companies, Karachi Gas and Indus Gas. Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd
(SNGPL) transmits and distributes gas in the north. Responsibility for hydel
and thermal power generation lies with two autonomous government organiza-
tions: Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) for the Karachi area and
the Water & Power Development Authority (WAPDA) for the rest of the country.
The state-controlled Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) is responsible
for nuclear power generation. Coal exploration and development are undertaken



-4-
by the state mining organization, Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
(PMDC) and through leases granted to t'he private sector.
1.14     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources which controls, inter
alia, OGDC and PMDC, is responsible for planning and policy making for oil,
gas and coal. All matters relating to power generation are regulated by the
Ministry of Water and Power, which controls WAPDA and KESC. The Ministry of
Production controls the public sector refinery. Hence, threle Federal Minis-
tries are involved in different aspects of energy policy formulation.  Overall
authority for national energy policy formulation and coordination is entrusted
to the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), co-chaired by the Ministers of
Finance and Petroleum. The role of coordinating energy planning has now been
assigned to the Planning and Development (P&D) Division of the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs. Energy pricing decisions are submit-
ted for approval to the Ministry of Finance, and in the case of major deci-
sions to the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of the Fe,deral Cabinet.
1.15     The large number of organizations involved both at the policy and
implementation levels, and the mix of public and private sector participants,
make energy planning difficult. The unwieldy organizational structure of
Ministries with conflicting interests and views make resolution of complex
policy decisions difficult. This is compounded by a shortage of skilled man-
power in some of the Ministries. GOP has become increasingly aware of these
problems over the past few years. The establishment of the NEPC has provided
a forum for resolving inter-ministeria:L differences on policy issues. GOP has
also increasingly sought technical ass:Lstance for a number oiE studies which
will provide a firmer basis for policy and planning decisions. GOP has com-
missioned consultants to assist in preparing the energy component of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan as well as a 20-year perspective plan.  In addition, a number
of sub-sector studies have been or are being implemented.
1.16     Energy policy and planning in Pakistan is in a state of transition.
Over the past decade Pakistan relied oIn the rapid growth of domestic hydel and
natural gas production to contain oil :lmports. Energy policy was strongly
influenced by the perception that Pakistan had virtually unlimited gas
reserves. Consequently, gas prices were kept low, resulting in rapid growth
of demand, displacement of alternative fuels (including coal) and cessation of
exploration for additional gas reserves. Emerging gas shortages were recog-
nized too late, and GOP policy was initially slow to adjust to the new circum-
stances. However, in the past year, GOP has clearly recognized the magnitude
of the energy problem and several important initiatives (outlined in more
detail later) have been taken to increase domestic energy supply including
rationalizing the level and structure of gas producer prices, encouraging
greater private sector participation in energy exploration and development and
strengthening medium-term public sector energy planning to ensure required
investments are undertaken on time.
Energy Prospects
1.17     Various studies of Pakistan's future energy supply and demand pros-
pects have been undertaken recently. Although these studies differ in detail
the broad picture that emerges is clear. Without major policy initiatives,
commercial energy availability is like]Ly to become a serious constraint to
continued rapid economic growth with energy imports increasing more than four-



-5-
fold over the next decade. However, with vigorous policy initiatives on both
the supply and demand side, substantial improvements in the domestic energy
balance can be obtained although even in this case net energy imports are pro-
jected to double over the next ten years. To achieve the needed improvements
several policy objectives have been identified by GOP:
(i)     energy management and conservation programs to reduce the
growth in demand through price and non-price policy instru-
ments;
(ii)    increased emphasis on the development of renewable energy;
(iii)   accelerated development of proven oil and gas fields and
intensified exploration for additional domestic energy
reserves including oil, gas and coal;
(iv)    increased participation of private sector companies in
financing and implementation of energy investments.
1.18     The investment requirements of the energy sector will be very large
in the next decade. Provisional figures for the Sixth Five Year Plan(FY84-88)
suggest that public sector energy investment requirements may exceed US$10
billion of which about 75% will be taken up by power generation and transmis-
sion. 1/
1.19     During the past year, GOP has taken several policy initiatives to
accelerate exploration and development of domestic petroleum resources:
(i)     petroleum exploration is to be accelerated by offering areas
presently under licence to OGDC to private oil companies on a
joint-venture basis.  Eleven areas have been offered for com-
petitive bidding. The geology of the areas is of some inter-
est, and the contract terms are reasonable. OGDC expects
that three new contracts will result from the current offer-
ing and plans to continue these efforts through continued
exploration promotion efforts;
(ii)    progress has been made towards strengthening the management
and operating efficiency of OGDC. Decisions have been taken
to limit OGDC's activities, particularly by seeking increased
private sector participation in petroleum exploration and
development. Progress has also been made in strengthening
OGDC operating procedures and in delegating technical and
financial responsibility;
(iii)   GOP has adopted a gas development plan designed to acceler-
ate the development of proven fields (see Chapter II for
details). The three-year investment program to increase gas
production by 264 MMCFD will cost about $680 million. Over
80% of the field development costs ($350 million) will be met
from private sector investors; and
1/ Energy Sector Working Group for Sixth Five-Year Plan, March 1983.



-6-
(iv)    producer prices for both oil and gas have been revised to
ensure adequate incentive to expand production from proven
fields. Negotiations have been successfully concluded with
several producers, and negotiations with several others are
underway.
1.20     While significant steps forward have been taken, important issues
remain to be resolved. The shift away from a period of abundant, cheap gas
will require the development of a coordinated fuel policy designed to minimize
the cost of energy to the economy. The future of domestic and imported coal
as a fuel for power generation needs to be clarified and will have an impor-
tant impact on the location and design of future thermal power plants. Accel-
erated exploration for oil and more particularly gas is urgently required as
well as active consideration of developing low-quality gas previously consid-
ered uneconomic. The medium term national energy plan now in preparation is
to serve as the focus for coordinating these energy policy and planning activ-
ities.
Energy Pricing
1.21     Most petroleum products sold domestically are covered by government
price controls both at ex-refinery and consumer levels. Retail prices for
petroleum products have been equalized for all locations in the country since
1966. During recent years GOP has made considerable progress in raising con-
sumer prices to reflect international prices and Government policy is to pass
on petroleum product cost increases promptly to the final consumers. As a
result, average consumer prices are generally in line with imported (border)
prices, with local gasoline prices significantly higher than import parity (at
US$2.40 per gallon).
1.22     Producer prices for crude oil under joint venture concession agree-
ments are set equal to the world market price with a negotiable, usually 10-
15%, discount applicable to production sold in the domestic market. Producer
prices for oil from already discovered fields are subject to a much larger
discount. For Meyal the discount negotiated with the producer is 70% giving a
price of about U.S. $10 per barrel for new wells. Ex-refinery prices are set
by GOP to permit the refineries to earn a 15% net return on paid up share cap-
ital and any difference between these prices and the consumer price accrues to
the budget as excise tax and development surcharge. In practice, increases in
ex-refinery prices have not fully reflected increased costs and the present
pricing system gives little incentive for efficient operation or for reinvest-
ment. These issues are being addressed in the context of a Bank refinery pro-
ject.
1.23     Consumer prices for electricity have been periodically increased in
line with rising costs. The major power authority, WAPDA, has maintained a
sound financial position enabling it to finance over 40% of its investments
from internal cash generation. This has been feasible largely because of the
low cost of hydel and natural gas. With increasing future reliance on more
expensive fuels, there is likely to be increasing pressure on WAPDA to
increase tariffs substantially if its financial position is not to be seri-
ously eroded. Coal prices are unregulated and because of high transport
costs, price is determined by regional supply and demand.  Current prices for



coal are not a valid indicator of future prices if output is expanded signifi-
cantly since at present mining is under-capitalized and production is limited
to thin, high-quality seams. Natural gas producer and consumer prices are
discussed fully in Chapter II.
II. NATURAL GAS SUB-SECTOR
Gas Reserves and Production
2.01     Natural gas was first discovered in Pakistan in 1952 at Sui in
Baluchistan by PPL. The Sui field, consisting of two producing reservoirs -
the Main Limestone (SML) and Upper Limestone (SUL) - is the largest field in
Pakistan with original recoverable reserves of 10.5 TCF. The second largest
field, Mari, estimated to contain original recoverable reserves of 4.5 TCF was
discovered by Pak Stanvac (now Esso Eastern) in 1957. During the 1950's PPL
discovered several other smaller fields containing mostly poor quality gas,
none of which is presently producing. More recently, OGDC made one signifi-
cant, though much smaller, gas discovery at Pirkoh (1977) and also discovered
a gas condensate field at Dhodak (1976). In addition, associated gas is pro-
duced in small quantities from Meyal and Toot. Field locations are indicated
on the attached map (IBRD No. 16906R).
2.02     The heating value of the gas varies markedly between fields.  SML is
considered "standard" in Pakistan with a heating value of 933 Btu/SCF for raw
gas and 994 Btu/SCF for purified gas. In contrast, Mari gas with a high car-
bon dioxide and nitrogen content has a heating value for raw gas of only 723
Btu/SCF. Analyses of raw gas from different fields are given in Annex 2.01.
2.03     Total original proved gas reserves in Pakistan are estimated to be
16.4 TCF and remaining recoverable reserves are 12.9 TCF. Additional possible
reserves are estimated at 1.3 TCF although this could be increased substan-
tially with additional exploration. Further details on proven and possible
reserves by field are given in Annexes 2.02 and 2.03. Annex 2.04 describes
the main gas fields in Pakistan outlining their geology, reserves, production
potential and possible future development. Annex 2.05 summarizes the gas pro-
duction history over the past decade.
2.04     During FY 82, a total of 323 BCF (885 MMCFD) of gas was consumed
equivalent to 7 million tons of crude oil. The power sector was the main con-
sumer (28%) followed by general industries (26%) and fertilizer (23%). Resi-
dential use, while accounting for less than 10% of total gas use, was the most
rapidly growing sector over the past decade (full details are given in Annex
2.06).
2.05     Gas demand in Pakistan is highly seasonal, due partly to marked vari-
ations in the hydel generating capacity related to variations in the water
levels of the northern reservoirs. For example, in the northern system during
FY 82 gas deliveries ranged from an average 404 million cubic feet per day
(MMCFD) in the peak month of January to just 279 MMCFD in August. Further-
more, due to a shortage of gas in the peak months there was load shedding in
excess of 100 MMCFD.



-8-
Development of the Gas Network
2.06     The existing gas transmission network in Pakistan consists of separ-
ate southern and northern links. Details of the physical expansion of the
system are given in Annex 2.07.  The southern network operated by Sui Gas
Transmission Company (SGTC), has a transmission capacity of 255 MMCFD.
Karachi Gas (KGC) and Indus Gas (IGC) have a network of over 450 miles of dis-
tribution lines and annual sales averaging about 245 MMCFD. In recent years,
there has been frequent load shedding which has reached substantial propor-
tions in the winter months.  To accommodate increased demand, SGTC is imple-
menting a number of expansion schemes which will increase southern system
capacity to 387 MMCFD by mid-1983. It is also constructing a 170 MMCFD capa-
city line from the Pirkoh field to Sui to deliver initially 70 MMCFD of Pirkoh
gas to the southern system by mid-1985.
2.07     Since 1963, in a series of four Bank supported projects, the northern
SNGPL system has been expanded to its present transmission capacity of 378
MMCFD, consisting of 1,447 miles of transmission lines, 87,000 BHP compression
facilities and over 3,800 miles of distribution lines serving 55 cities and
towns. As with the southern system, gas supply has failed to keep pace with
demand, and in recent years there has been extensive load-shedding, particu-
larly in the winter months. The largest shortfalls have fallen on WAPDA's
thermal power stations which have increasingly had to convert to fuel oil
and/or shed electric load. The SNGPL V Project is in response to these
increasing gas shortages in the north.
2.08     After the discovery of the Mari field in 1957, the Mari system has
developed in three stages to a maximum capacity of 200 MMCFD to meet the feed-
stock and power needs of three nearby fertilizer plants. Because of the high
carbon dioxide and nitrogen content of Mari gas, it was considered particu-
larly suitable as fertilizer feedstock and unsuitable for delivery into the
pipeline system. There are plans (described later) to increase the production
capacity of Mari up to 387 MMCFD.
2.09     By the end of the seventies, although Pakistan's transmission system
was large, it was, nevertheless, a simlple system dependent to a very large
extent on a single source of gas at Sui. Successive expansions of the pipe-
line grid in line with growing demand were a technical success, and the trans-
mission companies developed into competent and well-managed entities. Never-
theless, the emergence of gas shortages in the early eighties took GOP and the
gas companies by surprise because the technical success in expanding the gas
grid was not paralleled by similar success in developing an effective frame-
work for forward planning and coordinalted decision making. The availability
of gas was not considered an issue since it was assumed that Pakistan had
excess gas supplies. The gas-producing companies sought only to meet con-
tracted commitments. Since they operated under guaranteed rate-of-return
formulae, they had no incentive to expand production beyond contract levels or
any reason to evaluate the longer-term gas supply-demand prospects. The
transmission companies presumed GOP would ensure adequate gas supplies and
concentrated on expanding gas markets as rapidly as possible.. Although GOP
had overall control of the sub-sector, it did not have the personnel necessary
to implement effective planning systems. Consequently, the gas industry
failed to recognize and respond to gas shortages until they became acute.



2.10     Over the next decade the gas industry will undergo major changes.  On
the supply side, there will be a shift from dependence on a single field to
dependence on multiple fields (Sui, Pirkoh, Khandkhot, Dhodak and others) with
differing physical and cost characteristics. On the demand side, for the
first time there will need to be effective load management to even out sea-
sonal demand peaks and to allocate scarce gas to its highest value uses. This
will require much more effective and flexible planning systems involving pro-
ducers, transmission companies and users as well as GOP. It will also require
policies which provide greater automatic incentive for producers and users to
optimize their supply and demand decisions.
Gas Pricing
2.11     Consumer Prices.  Natural gas consumer prices are fixed by GOP and
differ considerably by class of user from US$1.07/MCF for fertilizer up to
US$2.02/MCF for commercial users. The average selling price is about
US$1.60/MCF which is about 37% of the fuel oil equivalent price. (The gas
selling price by type of user is summarized in Annex 2.08 and the price of
competing fuels by type of use in Annex 2.09.). In the 1970's this low price
was justified by the assumption that there would be surplus gas for the fore-
seeable future, and a low price would stimulate substitution away from more
expensive fuels. However, in recent years, as excess demand has emerged, the
need for a major revision to gas consumer prices has become increasingly evi-
dent. In 1981, GOP undertook to gradually increase the average gas consumer
price from its level at that time equal to 25% of fuel oil parity up to two-
thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988. At current fuel oil prices, this implies
increasing the average gas consumer price from US$1.10/MCF in 1981 to about
US$2.60/MCF in 1988. In January 1982, average gas prices were increased about
20%, and an additional 25% average increase was implemented in January 1983.
(Historical movements in gas consumer prices are detailed in Annex 2.10). The
structure of gas consumer prices also needs review; at present, the price
paid by WAPDA for gas is less than half that paid by commercial and some resi-
dential users. As gas demand management becomes increasingly important, a
rationalization of the structure of gas prices among users will be increas-
ingly desirable. This issue is to be addressed in the context of the ongoing
SAL dialogue.
2.12     Transmission Tariffs.  The gas transmission companies purchase gas at
the wellhead at the producer price established by GOP plus an excise tax (of
about US$0.30/MCF) paid to the Provincial Government. The net price received
by the transmission companies--the prescribed price--is the actual selling
price set by GOP less a "development surcharge" which is, in effect, an excise
tax levied on gas sales at a specified rate per thousand cubic feet. The
development surcharge, collected by the transmission company and paid to GOP,
varies with class of user between US$0.30/MCF and US$1.10/MCF. The transmis-
sion margin--the difference between the cost of gas into pipeline and the pre-
scribed price--is set by GOP to permit the transmission companies to recover
their costs and a fixed return on net assets (set in the case of SNGPL at
12%). For SNGPL in 1981 the cost of gas averaged US$O.32/MCF and the total
transmission and distribution margin was an additional US$0.57/MCF. The sub-
stantial margin between the cost of producing and transmitting gas and the
selling price is captured for the national budget through the development sur-
charge.



- 10 -
2.13     Producer Prices.  HistoricalLy, gas producer prices in Pakistan have
been established on a cost plus basis.  Until very recently, Sui gas was
priced at the wellhead on the basis of a formula designed to recover actual
costs plus a guaranteed 15% return on paid in share capital. The price of Sui
gas on this basis in FY 81 was about US$0.07/MCF. Throughout the sixties and
seventies the price formula was broad:Ly adequate to maintain the company's
financial position because production could be expanded witlh only modest
expenditures. In the late seventies, as reservoir pressure declined, however,
it became clear that PPL would have to install major compression facilities to
maintain field production. Because of rapid cost inflation and an increase in
the cost of capital, the existing price formula did not provide adequate
profit incentive to undertake the required investments or sufficient cash flow
to finance them. In 1982, GOP and PPL negotiated a revised producer price
formula for Sui gas which will permit recovery of costs, a 22-1/2% return on
shareholders funds as well as the accumulation of sufficient cash reserves to
secure financing for the gas compress:Lon investments.L/ The agreed new price
for 1982 is about US$0.33/MCF, and this is expected to incresase to about
US$0.83/MCF by 1984--a more than ten-fold increase over the 1981 level. While
the increased Sui producer price is clearly an improvement (in terms of ensur-
ing that needed investments take places) it is unfortunate that it still pro-
vides no incentive for PPL to minimize costs or increase field output to the
maximum economic production rate.
2.14     The Mari gas producer price is not based on a fixedl rate of return
formula. An initial price was negotiated with Esso Eastern in 1976, and
indexed for movements in costs and partially for exchange rate adjustments.
In FY 82 the price under this formula on a Sui equivalent basis was about
US$0.15/MCF. This price is too low to justify the proposed expansion in field
production capacity (from 200 to 387 MIMCFD), and GOP has agreed in principle
to negotiate a higher price with the Eield owners in return for a commitment
to increase production. Negotiations are currently stalled pending transfer
of field ownership (see para. 3.04).
2.15     In future it will be necessary to bring onstream additional gas sup-
plies from discovered but undeveloped fields (e.g. Mazarani, Pirkoh,
Dhodak). During SAL discussions, GOP undertook to introduces a revised pro-
ducer price formula for additional gas supplies which does not have the draw-
backs of a guaranteed rate of return approach. The new formula will establish
a "base price" at the level based on expected costs required to generate an
agreed discounted cash flow rate of resturn. This base prices will be indexed
to movements in international oil prices. This formula wil:L encourage cost
minimization, provide greater incentive to increase production and provide a
link to movements in international energy prices, but it will not eliminate
the need to renegotiate the base price periodically as marginal costs increase
or real oil prices change over time. The Bank has stressed in the context of
the SAL dialogue the need to move rapidly to implement the new approach and
the desirability of including similar provisions (with suitable modifications)
in exploration agreements to encourage gas exploration by private sector
petroleum companies.
1/ In 1983 in return for a commitment; by PPL to develop the Kandkhot gas
field, GOP agreed to further revise the Sui price formula to permit a 25%
return on shareholders' funds.



- 11 -
Gas Demand and Supply Projections
2.16     A gas supply and demand study recently prepared for GOP (financed
from a PPF under the SNGPL V Project) presented gas demand projections for the
period to FY 90.1/ These projections show average day demand increasing at
7.7% per year from 720 MMCFD in FY 81 to 1,410 MMCFD in FY 90. Over the same
period peak demand is expected to increase from 997 MMCFD up to 1,889 MMCFD.
These projections have been reviewed by Bank staff and are considered conser-
vative since the incremental gas use projected for the power sector is much
lower than the fuel requirements of planned additional thermal generating
capacity. Adjustment for the revised generation program would add to peak gas
demand by FY 90 an additional 330 MMCFD. This growth in demand is anticipated
despite the planned sharp increases in consumer prices since gas will continue
to be considerably cheaper than alternative fuels.
2.17     In FY 81 supply from all fields in Pakistan averaged 762 MMCFD (Sui
equivalent). Following completion of the gas development plan (described in
the next section) production will increase to 1,068 MMCFD by FY 86 and stabil-
ize at around 1098 MMCFD for the remainder of the decade. As the figures in
Annex 2.11 indicate, unless additional gas supplies are forthcoming, average
day demand will exceed supply in every year beyond FY 82 and the peak demand
deficit will continuously increase from about 200 MMCFD in FY 81 up to about
800 MMCFD in FY 91. In view of the contraints on gas supply, GOP has mandated
various measures to limit the growth in gas demand. No new thermal power gen-
eration is to be gas fired (beyond that included in the gas development plan)
and new gas connections are being rationed. As a result, constrained demand
(i.e. demand from connected customers) is projected to increase more gradually
to reach, on an average day basis, 1,200 MMCFD by FY 91. Even with this
rationing, however, peak demand will exceed supply in every year of the decade
with the peak deficit exceeding 500 MMCFD by FY 91.
Gas Development Plan
2.18     While the GDC study identified major emerging gas shortages it also
confirmed that production from proven gas fields can be substantially
increased over current levels if appropriate additional investments are
made. Acting on the results of this study, GOP has developed a medium-term
gas development plan designed to increase production from proven fields by 264
MMCFD (of SML equivalent) by 1986. The plan will involve investments in field
development of US$488 million (constant 1981 prices) and associated pipeline
investments of about US$250 million. Annex 2.12 shows the phasing of projects
included in the gas development plan and the resulting timing of increments to
supply.
2.19     The essential elements of the gas development plan are:
(i)     major investments in gas compression facilities at Sui to
sustain the present production rate from the Sui Main Lime-
stone reservoir--the project is underway;
1/ Gas Development Corporation (GDC) study. The demand figures presented
here were prepared for GDC by Enar Petrotech.



- 12 -
(ii)    development of the Sui Upper Limestone reservoir (described
in chapter III)--the development work is underway;
(iii)   development of the Pirkoh gas field to a production rate of
70 MMCFD to be supplied to SGTC to meet gas shortfalls in
the southern system--the project is underway;
(iv)    development of the Kandhkot gas field to produce 40 MMCFD
of gas to be supplied to a newly installed 210 MW Guddu IV
steam power unit--price negotiations were recently
concluded and development work will commence this year.
(v)     development of Mari. gas field from the present 200 MMCFD
capacity up to 387 MMCFD--negotiations for the transfer of
field ownership were recently finalized aLnd field develop-
ment plans are being made;
(vi)    expansion of the SGTC system to transmit Pirkoh gas to the
south--the project is underway;
(vii)   construction of a pipeline from Mari to Guddu where the
additional Mari gas would be used: (described in chapter
III)--project prepaLration and financing a,rrangements by
WAPDA are at an advanced stage; and
(viii) expansion of the SNGPL system to transmit. the additional
gas available from SUL and Sui gas released from Guddu
which constitutes the SNGPL V project.
The gas development plan has been reviewed by Bank staff and is considered to
be achievable and an appropriate short-term response to the emerging gas
shortages.
Additional Gas Supplies and Gas Demand. Management
2.20     Even when the gas development plan is fully implemented, demand will
exceed supply for the foreseeable future. It is, therefore, of great impor-
tance that GOP take all possible measures to both increase gas supply and to
limit the rapid growth in demand. Available information suggests that there
are a number of additional steps to aumeliorate the situation. which could be
taken and should receive early consideration by GOP.
2.21     The GDC study suggested that production from the Sui and Mari fields
could be increased beyond the levels contemplated in the gas development plan
without harming the reservoirs. If this is confirmed, this would be the
quickest and cheapest source of additional gas in Pakistan, and GOP should
ensure that the technical issues surrounding this option are fully evaluated
as new reservoir data becomes available in 1983. The GDC study also indicated
that the production potential of Pirkoh and Kandhkot could be greater than the
level presently planned. Here, too, GOP should ensure early delineation
drilling to ensure that production is increased to the optimum rate as quickly
as possible.



- 13 -
2.22     In the fifties, a number of poor quality gas fields with high carbon
dioxide and inerts content were discovered by PPL (e.g. Uch). At that time,
they were uneconomic because the high quality Sui gas could fully meet
demand. Now that Pakistan has a gas shortage and given the high cost of
alternative fuels, there is a good possibility that these low-quality gases
can be economically used as fuel in thermal power generation. GOP plans to
further evaluate the feasibility of developing these fields with assistance
from consultants to be financed by the Bank.
2.23     Since by 1990 the reserves to production ratio will have fallen to 15
years, accelerated exploration for gas is also very important. GOP has
already taken steps to encourage private sector participation in exploration
by making available increased acreage (including inactive OGDC areas) on rea-
sonable terms. The extension of the new gas price formula to exploration
agreements would also encourage exploration in gas-prone areas. At the same
time, OGDC is re-focusing its exploration program to give increased emphasis
to the discovery of additional gas reserves and a Bank-supported gas explora-
tion project is now being prepared.
2.24     Unless major new gas reserves are discovered, there will have to be
substantial adjustments in the use of gas. At present, the power sector is a
major user consuming 203 MMCFD in FY 82. To meet the current seasonal
deficits, GOP has mandated a curtailment program that is a short-term compro-
mise between allocating gas to the high priority industrial users and honoring
existing non-interruptible gas supply contracts (particularly for power).
These measures, however, are a short-term, ad hoc response to gas shortages.
There is a need to prepare a longer term gas optimization program on the basis
of technical studies of the netback value of gas in alternative uses. During
loan negotiations GOP has agreed, prior to allocating newly-discovered gas or
making significant changes in the existing allocation, to carry out a medium-
term gas utilization study to determine the optimum allocation of additional
gas supply.
2.25     During negotiations GOP has also agreed to prepare and submit to the
Bank by September 30, 1984 a medium-term gas plan indicating planned gas pro-
duction and its allocation to users. This plan, to be revised annually, will
form the basis of a continuing Bank dialogue with GOP on the gas supply-demand
situation.
2.26     To ensure optimal load management, attention needs to be given to the
scope for peak load shaving using bulk storage (e.g. underground reser-
voirs). The feasibility of peak load shaving will depend on the continued
availability of excess summer gas which could be stored for subsequent winter
use. During negotiations assurances were obtained from SNGPL that it will
carry out a detailed study of the availability of excess summer gas and that,
if availability is confirmed, it will engage consultants to undertake a feasi-
bility study of peak load shaving options.
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy
2.27     The Bank has been involved in Pakistan's energy sector for some
time. WAPDA has been the recipient of three power loans/credits and a fourth
is being identified. SNGPL has received four loans/credits, and OGDC received
a loan for development of the Toot oil field. Toot was the first lending



- 14 -
operation in the petroleum sector. Two additional petroleum projects (in sup-
port of OGDC exploration and continued support for Toot) are in preparation.
An engineering loan for upgrading the refinery capability in Karachi was
recently approved. IFC have made two Loans in the petroleum sector; one to
PPL, the Sui field operators, for installation of gas compression facilities
and one to POL, the Meyal oil field operator, for additional development
drilling.
2.28     The Bank has been involved in Pakistan's gas sub-sector since 1964.
Four loans/credits were extended to SNGPL in 1964, 1970, 1971 and 1975 to
finance the expansion of the northern transmission and distribution grid and
to strengthen the technical and financ:Lal capacity of the borrower, SNGPL.
These objectives have been substantialLy achieved; Pakistan has one of the
most extensive gas grids in the developing world, and SNGPL :Ls a competent
technical and commercial entity.
2.29     The role of the Bank in the fLfth project is, in a broad sense, to
promote an optimal gas development strategy in response to emerging gas short-
ages. The initial project proposed by GOP for Bank financing was based on an
ad hoc expansion of gas production from an unproven source (Dhodak). It
became evident during initial discussions on the project that GOP did not have
a clear view of the producibility of Pakistan's gas fields, nor of the magni-
tude of emerging gas shortages. There was no meaningful planning of gas
investments, and pricing policies were inappropriate and a deterrent to both
the desired investments by the private sector field owners and to efficient
utilization by users. Over the past two years, Bank staff have worked closely
with GOP to generate an awareness of the problem, to develop information as a
basis for decision making and to recommend policy options. IJnder the project
PPF, the Bank financed the GDC study of gas supply and demand prospects in
Pakistan which provided an overview of gas demand and the potential produci-
bility of the major gas fields. Following GOP analysis of the GDC study con-
clusions, there emerged for the first time a coherent and ba:Lanced gas devel-
opment plan. At the same time, within the SAL framework the Bank carried on a
detailed dialogue on producer and consuimer pricing for oil and gas. This dia-
logue resulted in agreement to substantially increase gas consumer prices and
the adoption of a more flexible approach to producer pricing which, to date,
has resulted in agreement with the owners of the Sui field on a major new
investment program and is expect to result in further investments in other
privately-operated fields in the near future. More recently the Bank dialogue
has focussed on measures required for accelerated exploration of domestic
petroleum resources and the need for more effective energy demand management.
2.30     The role of the Bank Group is also to assist in mobilizing private
sources of finance in support of Pakistan's energy development. The Sui field
development is being supported by an I1?C loan package, and IFC is prepared
also to consider financing for the Mar:i and Kandkhot field developments.
Since SNGPL is now a sound technical and financial entity, it is appropriate
that it should take an initial step to diversify its sources of foreign
finance away from the multilateral lending agencies.  The Bank's presence in
the present project is intended to stimulate co-financing from private sources
through participation in project preparation and assisting the borrower to
raise the private finance.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01     The proposed project (SNGPL V) is part of a number of complementary
and linked investments, designed to permit increased gas supplies to the
northern system. The principal investment components are the following:
(i)   supply of 19 MMCFD of Sui Upper Limestone gas to SNGPL;
(ii)  increase in the Mari field production capacity by 187 MMCFD;
(iii) construction of a pipeline from Mari to Guddu where the addi-
tional Mari gas will be used (a) in Guddu units I and II
releasing 55 MMCFD of raw Sui gas to SNGPL, and (b) to provide
fuel for a new 450 MW combined cycle gas turbine at Guddu; and,
(iv) expansion of the SNGPL system to transmit the additional gas
from SUL and from Guddu.
3.02     Although the Bank project includes financing for only the fourth comr
ponent of this set of investments, successful implementation of the SNGPL pro-
ject depends critically on the timely implementation of the others.
Incremental Gas Supplies
3.03     (a) The Sui gas field, with estimated original recoverable reserves
of 10.5 TCF has been in production for 28 years with cumulative production of
2.5 TCF. To compensate for the decline in reservoir pressure, wellhead gas
compression facilities are required. PPL, the field owners, have agreed to
make the major investments required, and implementation is now underway (IFC
is managing a syndicate of banks financing this project and providing a por-
tion of equity). In addition, PPL plan to expand production from the SUL
reservoir to a production rate of 70 MMCFD. After allowing for fuel require-
ments for the new compressors and shortfalls of existing commitments to the
southern system, there will be a net 19 MMCFD of SUL gas available which has
been allocated by GOP to SNGPL. Reservoir studies for PPL and separately for
GOP confirm the availability of the SUL gas which can be fed directly into the
SNGPL system without purification. From 1988, when the second stage com-
pressors become operational, PPL will require all the SUL gas for field opera-
tions, so SNGPL will only have access to the SUL gas for a limited period of
about five years. During negotiations SNGPL confirmed that a draft agreement
between PPL and SNGPL for the supply of 19 MMCFD of SUL gas until at least
1988 has been agreed in substance. A signed agreement acceptable to the Bank
will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.04     (b) The Mari gas field, with estimated original recoverable gas
reserves of 4.5 TCF, was until recently owned and operated by Esso Eastern
(Pakistan) - a local company with 51% shareholding by Esso Eastern and 49% by
GOP. The geology of the reservoir is simple and the productive horizon is
shallow (2,500 feet), so field development is straightforward. Recent reser-
voir studies for the field owners and GOP both confirm that the present
installed production capacity (200 MMCFD) can be increased considerably with-



- 16 -
out harm to the reservoir up to 400 MMCFD. It has been decided to use the
additional Mari gas to fuel the nearby WAPDA power generation facilities at
Guddu. Recently, Esso Eastern has decLded to withdraw from small operations
in South Asia and has sold its interest: in the Mari field to the Fauji Founda-
tion, a private Pakistani company. The company is to be restructured in the
near future with Fauji retaining a 40% interest and GOP a 60% interest. The
entire staff of the original company, other than the General Manager, will
remain; and there is reason for confidence that field development will be
implemented efficiently. However, at present, since transfer of field owner-
ship has only just been completed, firma plans for field development have not
been prepared, and a gas supply contract for sale of incremental gas to WAPDA
has not yet been negotiated.
3.05     While there is reason to expect that these matters can be satisfac-
torily resolved (and GOP indicates that: it is giving high priority to these
matters) it will not be possible to proceed with the SNGPL project until
satisfactory arrangements are agreed. During negotiations, a letter of intent
was provided to the Bank from Fauji Fotndation confirming its intention to
develop the Mari field to produce an additional 187 MMCFD by September 1985.
Execution of a gas supply contract between the field owners and WAPDA will be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.06     Mari-Guddu pipeline and Guddu conversion.  The new Mari field owners
will sell the additional gas to WAPDA aLt the wellhead and WAPDA will finance
and own the Mari-Guddu pipeline and related compression and dehydration facil-
ities.  WAPDA plan to contract SNGPL or SGTC to construct, operate and main-
tain the line and financing is to be obtained from USAID, ADEB and the Saudi
Fund.  The same agencies wi'l finance the conversion of Guddu steam generating
units I and II from Sui to Mari gas and the installation of aL new combined
cycle gas turbine plant.  During loan negotiations a letter from WAPDA to
SNGPL was provided to the Bank confirming WAPDA's intention to unconditionally
release 55 MMCFD of raw Sui gas to SNGP'L by September 1985. A firm agreement
between PPL and SNGPL to commit the released gas to the SNGPL system will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
SNGPL V Project Objectives
3.07     Project IV involved upgrading the pipeline system from a capacity of
297 MMCFD, additional purification banks and considerable extension of the
distribution system at a total estimated cost of US$103 million. The project
was completed broadly on time and within budget. Under Project IV (Loan 1107-
PAK) SNGPL has completed the expansion of the gas transmission and distribu-
tion facilities to supply a total of 378 MMCFD. Although the average daily
consumption is below the system capacity, the winter peak demand exceeds both
gas availability and transmission system capacity. Under the gas development
plan, SNGPL is to receive an additional 51 MMCFD of purified Sui gas from the
release by WAPDA of 55 MMCFD of raw Sui gas together with an additional 19
MMCFD of Sui Upper Limestone gas until 1988. The objective of the project is
to finance the expansion of the SNGPL system to transmit this additional 70
MMCFD gas supply to alleviate increasingly acute gas shortages in the north.
The project will also provide for limited additional expansion of the distri-
bution system to residential consumers to substitute gas for imported, higher
cost kerosene.



- 17 -
Project Description
3.08     The proposed project (designated Project V in SNGPL's investment pro-
gram) is composed of facilities to provide gas to areas in the north of the
country by expanding the transmission system capacity to handle an additional
70 MMCFD from Sui field. The project comprises: (project detailed descrip-
tion Annex 3.01).
(a)   Procurement and installation of one 60 MMCFD gas purification
bank at Sui to treat the additional raw gas allocated to
SNGPL. The total treating facilities owned by SNGPL will have
a capacity of 530 MMCFD. This will allow approximately 100
MMCFD as spare for routine maintenance or emergency downtime.
(b)   Procurement and construction of 434 miles of high pressure gas
transmission pipelines of different diameters complete with
cathodic protection. Some 354 miles of linepipe will be new
and the remainder will be uplifted and recovered from existing
pipelines.
(c)   Procurement and installation of four 1100 BHP and one 3,800 BHP
turbine/compressor units in four existing compressor stations
(AC-6, AC-8, BC-1, CC-1).
(d)   Development of the distribution system and service lines to
meet new and normal growth of domestic consumers for the period
FY84 to FY86. It is planned to add an additional 25,000 new
connections to the system in each year.
(e)   Procurement and installation of a telecommunication system for
the Sui-Multan - Faisalabad section, upgrading of the existing
system on the Faisalabad-Lahore-Gali sections and provision of
telecommunication and telemetry facilities on sections of the
transmission system which are not covered by the present radio
and telemetry system.
(f)   Technical assistance and training to upgrade the management and
operation of the gas company. The project includes financing
of (a) a management information system, (b) a feasibility study
for peak-load shaving, and (c) overseas training to upgrade
SNGPL's personnel in management and operations. It also
includes financing for the completed GDC gas supply and demand
study carried out under the Project Preparation Facility.
The attached map (IBRD No. 16907R) summarizes the proposed. system expansion.
A number of design cases were studied for different pipeline sizes and
compression facilities to meet the proposed capacity of the gas transmission
system. Considering existing constraints of gas pressure delivered at Sui
field, pipeline pressure rating and spacing of compression stations, the
optimum solution favors lower pressure drop by increasing pipeline sizes and
maintaining compression ratios between 1.2 and 1.4. The proposed design meets
the optimization requirements and is considered satisfactory.



- 18-
3.09     The gas transmission pipelines will be constructed on rights of way
of existing pipelines. The five compressor units will be installed as added
capacity in compressor stations already operating. The purification unit is
an MEA (mono-ethanol-amine) process plant to remove sulphur compounds and car-
bon dioxide followed by a gas dehydration section and is similar to the opera-
ting units existing in the Sui field.
Project Implementation and Schedule
3.10     SNGPL has its own Projects Department which performs design and engi-
neering as well as construction activities. The Projects Department has accu-
mulated considerable experience using its own labor and equipment in the con-
struction of oil and gas pipelines and the installation of compressor sta-
tions. Recently it successfully completed Project IV with approximately 20%
savings in construction costs from the original estimate. The construction
division is currently laying 250 miles of a 10" gas pipeline to Quetta and has
completed the construction of a major part of the 16" white products pipeline
from Karachi to Multan. SNGPL plan to utilize their Projects Department for
the design, engineering and construction of SNGPL Project V. The project will
involve a large amount of small works scattered throughout the SNGPL system
and extending over a distance of approximately 800 miles. The majority of the
work will involve working with and integrating into a complex pipeline system
under operating conditions. This will require close coordination between con-
struction and operating forces as shutdLowns and tie-ins to the existing system
have to be carried out during periods of low flow rate and be of optimal tim-
ing and duration. The work in questionL will have to be carried out using
safety standards and precautions normally associated with operational and
maintenance work and will entail a higher risk than normally associated with
new pipeline contracts. In addition, to complete the first phase of the works
in time to use the extra 19 MMCFD of Sui gas in 1984, construction would have
to commence in mid-1983. This would only be possible if SNGPL were to carry
out the construction as proposed. In view of the fact that it would be diffi-
cult to implement the works with an outside contractor and that implementation
by the SNGPL engineering work force would be efficient and economical the pro-
posed arrangements are considered appropriate and satisfactory.
3.11     Inspection of the welding of the pipeline will be carried out by
independent local consultants and SNGPL quality control personnel will inspect
the coating and wrapping during pipe laying. Design and engineering of catho-
dic protection will be carried out by SNGPL's corrosion control section as an
extension of the present system. These arrangements are satisfactory.
3.12     In order to strengthen SNGPL management the project includes provi-
sion for overseas training in both theoretical and practical courses as well
as visits to gas utility organizations.
3.13     The 19 MMCFD of gas which will be produced from SUL will be available
from mid-1984 until 1988, when it will be used for field compression.  SNGPL
has planned to implement this part of the project as early as possible (Phase
I) to make use of the SUL gas which normally meets pipeline quality without
treatment. Phase I will be completed by mid 1984 and involves the installa-
tion of 160 miles of pipelines ranging from 10" to 20" diameter and two comr-
pressors in stations AC-6 and CC-1. The remaining work (Phase II) will be
completed by mid-86 when Sui raw gas is made available after WAPDA completes
its gas transport, treating and compression facilities for receiving gas from
Mari field. The construction program (Annex 3.01, Appendix 1) is tight and .'.s
dependent on WAPDA completing its facilities on time. Previous



- 19 -
records indicate that SNGPL'is capable of completing the project on time to
meet 1985/86 winter peak load.
Project Cost Estimate
3.14     The project is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$196.8 million
(PR's 2460.0 million), including the front end fee, custom duties, taxes and
contingencies. The foreign component is estimated at US$70.5 million (36% of
the total cost). The project cost includes 10% physical contingency which is
applied to the base cost. Costs are estimated in 1983 prices with the foreign
cost element escalated at the rate of 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985 and there-
after, while local costs are escalated at 8% all through. The cost estimate
takes into consideration that the work will start early in 1983 and construc-
tion will be completed by mid-1986. Project costs were derived by SNGPL based
on their recent experience in comparable projects. Bank staff verified the
cost estimate and concluded that it is realistic.
3.15     The following table gives the project cost estimate summary, details
are in Annex 3.02.



PAKISTAN
SNGPL V
Estimated Project Costs
PR's (Million)                   U.S. $ (Million)
Local   Foreign   Total          Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Purification Plant                         83        111        194          6.7        8.8       15.5
2.  Transmission Pipelines                    815        417       1232         65.2       33.3       98.5
3.  Compressor Facilities                      34         60         94          2.7        4.8        7.5
4.  Distribution System                       318         80        398         25.4        6.4       31.8
5.  Telecommunication and Telemetry            65         57        122          5.2        4.6        9.8
6.  Construction Equipment                     53         35         88          4.2        2.8        7.0
7.  Technical Assistance and Training           6         21         27          0.5        1.7        2.2
Base Cost 1/         1373        781       2154        109.9       62.4      172.3
8. Contingencies
Physical (10%)                      137         78        215         11.0        6.2       17.2
Price                                69         21         90          5.4        1.8        7.2
Total cost 2/                1579        880       2459       126.3       70.4      196.4
9.  Front End Fee                              -           1          1          -          0.1        0.1
Total Project financing    1579          881       2460       126.3       70.5      196.8
1/ Cost estimate includes 490 million PR's (US$39.2 million) for duties and taxes.
2/ In accordance with SNGPL's accounting practice the Interest During Construction is not capitalized and
therefore not included in Estimated Project Costs.



- 21 -
Phasing of expenditures appears in Annex 3.03 and can be summarized as
follows:
Phasing of Expenditures
Year ending June 30, 1983 through 1986
(in million US$)
1983     1984      1985     1986      Total
12.2    96.3      74.9     13.4      196.8
6%      49%       38%       7%       100%
Items Proposed for Bank Financing
3.16     The proposed Bank loan of US$43.0 million would finance 100% of the
foreign expenditure of the Project, except for the main linepipe contract for
which export credit and commercial financing is being sought. Therefore, it
is proposed to allocate the Bank loan as follows:
Allocation of the Bank Loan
(in million US$)
Total
1.  Purification plant                                          10.2
2.  Valves and fittings                                          5.0
3.  Coating and wrapping                                         4.5
4.  Cathodic protection                                          0.5
5.  Distribution materials and equipment                         7.3
6.  Compressors                                                  5.2
7.  Construction materials and equipment                         3.2
8. Telecommunication and telemetry
materials and equipment                                    5.2
9.  Technical Assistance                                         1.8
Subtotal                    42.9
10. Front end fee                                                0.1
Total                       43.0
3.17     Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$43.0 million represents
about 16% of SNGPL's investment program over FY83-88 and about 61% of its for-
eign exchange cost. The proposed Project represents about 71% of the cost of
the investment program for the period under review. (The details of the
investment program are in Annex 3.04).
3.18     Under the four earlier projects the Bank was the sole lender of for-
eign exchange. Now that Pakistan is beginning to increase its access to pri-
vate foreign capital, SNGPL ought also to diversify the sources of its foreign
financing. The most desirable route is to secure export credit loans since
the involvement of the foreign suppliers normally encourages lending institu-



- 22 -
tions and export insurance agencies to provide financing under reasonable
terms, notwithstanding political risk. The linepipe contract is particularly
suitable for this type of borrowing. Therefore, SNGPL intends to request bid-
ders for the main linepipe contract to submit financing proposals together
with their bids. It is anticipated, in line with international practice, that
the export credit will cover about 70%' of the contract value (US$19.3 mil-
lion), and that the balance (US$8.2 million) will be obtainetd from a commer-
cial bank in the suppliers home country. Preliminary discussions held with
commercial banks indicated that no serious difficulties shouLld be
anticipated. During negotiations GOP and SNGPL agreed that a firm financing
plan, including commitments to provide! required export credit and commercial
loans on terms satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness
of this Loan. The financing plan for the project can be anticipated as
follows.
Project Financing Plan
(in million US$)
Foreign           Local      Total
Proposed IBRD                 43.0              -          43.0
Export Credit and
Commercial Loan            27.5               -          27.5
Local loans                                    49.7        49,7
Contribution in Aid--/         -              15.6         15.6
SNGPL's resources                             61.0         61.0
70.            126.3        196.8
a/ Contribution in aid is a contribution made by consumers towards certain
capital cost, e.g., cost of connections.
SNGPL is expected to provide, from internal sources, abouit US$61.0 million
towards the financing of the Project. This would represent about 31% of
SNGPL's investment program over FY83-88, which is satisfactory (see para.
5.10). In addition, SNGPL expects to obtain US$15.6 million from consumers in
the form of contributions towards certain costs (contribution in aid).
3.19     The balance of the local financing requirements will be secured
through local borrowings from Pakistani commercial banks on terms on which
SNGPL currently borrows. The maturity of these loans would be 5-8 years with
a variable interest rate based on the Banking Rate plus 2 1/2%. (The Banking
rate is used by local banks as a basis for pricing of local loans; it is
determined by market conditions and is presently 10%.) During negotiations
assurances were obtained from GOP that it will provide or caluse SNGPL to be
provided with sufficient funds to carry out the Project (see para 5.07(iii)
and 5.10), including all authorizations and guarantees which might be required
for local borrowings.
3.20     The Bank loan would be made to SNGPL with a guarantee from GOP.  The
proposed period of the loan would be 17 years, including a 3--year grace per-
iod. This maturity of the loan is reasonable considering that the existing
gas supply contract expires at the year 2000 (see para 5.07(i)). The grace
period of 3 years is granted for the period of construction ending in 1986.



- 23 -
The interest and foreign exchange risks are borne by the borrower. The inter-
est on the Bank loan is expected to exceed the domestic inflation rates, cur-
rently around 10-11% per annum. SNGPL will be required to pay a guarantee fee
which would be no less than a 10% mark-up of the variable interest rate.
Procurement
3.21     All major items of materials and equipment financed from the proceeds
of the loan will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank guidelines except: (i) the 5-compressor units which
for reasons of standardization can only be procured from one supplier. SNGPL
already has in operation some 50 Solar (US) compressor units and stocks a fair
amount of spare parts. The cost of these 5 compressor units will not exceed
US$5.2 million and it is recommended that SNGPL does not undergo ICB for these
items; and (ii) the linepipe which will be procured through ICB but optimizing
the use of export credit and co-financing.
3.22     To complete Phase I of the project by early 1984 it will be necessary
for SNGPL to award contracts for valves and fittings, coating and wrapping
materials, cathodic protection, telecommunication equipment and three gas com-
pressor units during the first half of 1983. Advance contracting in an amount
equivalent to US$18.0 million by SNGPL is anticipated. Before agreeing to
advance contracting: (a) it was ensured that SNGPL will adhere to Bank pro-
curement guidelines; (b) SNGPL and GOP were advised that the contracts would
be awarded at their own risk; and (c) the Executive Directors were advised of
this possibility through the monthly operational summary. Retroactive financ-
ing in an amount not exceeding US$4.0 million equivalent is anticipated. The
terms of reference for the proposed studies will be agreed to during the nego-
tiations. The studies are expected to require 40 man-months at the estimated
cost of US$0.5 million.
Disbursements
3.23     The aggregate Bank disbursement for Project, including contingencies,
is projected to be US$43.0 million or about 61% of the foreign exchange
cost. The loan disbursement schedule summarized below does not follow stan-
dard profiles for pipeline construction due to (i) advanced contracting and
retroactive financing and (ii) the proposed loan finances materials and equip-
ment which are procured at the front end of the construction schedule. Field
construction will be locally financed and is not part of the Bank loan. Dis-
bursements under the proposed Bank loan would be made as follows:
(i)    Equipment and materials
(a) directly imported; 100% of foreign expenditures;
(b) locally manufactured; 100% of local expenditures, ex-
factory;
(ii)   Technical assistance studies and overseas training; 100% of foreign
expenditures;
(iii) Amount disbursed under the PPF; and



- 24 -
(iv)   Capitalized front end fee
A retroactive financing of up to $4.0 million is recommended for expenditures
made in respect of procurement of materials and equipment after January 1,
1983. All disbursements will be fully documented, and the training costs
would be under prior approved training programs. The disbursement schedule of
the Bank loan including contingencies can be summarised as:
Disbursement Schedule for the Bank Loan
Fiscal year ending June 30
(in million US$)
FY84         FY85         FY86          Total
21.7         17.2          4.1           43.0
50%          40%           10%           lC00%
A detailed schedule of the disbursement of Bank loan is enclosed as Annex
3.03, Appendix 3.  The loan would be fully disbursed by December 1986, the
year of the completion of the project.
Ecology and Safety
3.24       The proposed project is an expansion of an existing gas transmis-
sion and distribution system. The main transmission pipelines are buried in a
right of way owned by SNGPL except at some river crossings where pipelines
cross on bridges or flyovers. In areas where the pipelines could be exposed
to scouring by flooding water currents continuous supervision is maintained to
protect the pipelines before a state of emergency develops.
3.25       The purification plant emits hydrogen sulphide resulting from
treating the raw gases. Hydrogen sulphide is burnt in a high flare stack away
from the process units. The plant is fenced in and located far from any resi-
dential area. No significant concentration of gases is detected at ground
level even within the plot limits of the plant.
3.26       The distribution network extends into cities and towns.  The pipe-
lines are buried and protected against corrosion. SNGPL has a 24 hour main-
tenance service for any reported gas leaks which are mainly in household
appliances and their connections. Previous records have proved that the sys-
tem is operating satisfactorily and no major accidents have been reported.
3.27       Natural gas is a clean burning fuel whose use has limited pollution
that would otherwise have resulted from greater use of distillates and fuel
oil.



- 25 -
IV. THE BORROWER
General
4.01     Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited was incorporated as a Limited Lia-
bility Company in 1963 and converted into a Public Limited Company in 1964.
The principal business of the company is the transmission, purification and
distribution of natural gas from Sui and Meyal to industrial, commercial and
residential customers. In addition, the Projects Department carries out
design, engineering and construction activities for outside clients and this
has been a significant source of income in recent years. However, there are
no outside contracts expected for the period FY83-88.
4.02     SNGPL has an authorized capital of PR400 million, of which PR383 mil-
lion is issued and paid up. The major stockholder is the GOP which owns
directly or indirectly about 90% of the shares. Details are in Annex 4.01.
The stock held by the general public is quoted on the Lahore and Karachi Stock
Exchanges.
4.03     SNGPL's Board of Directors is composed of 13 directors, including the
Chairman and the Managing Director. All the members of the Board, with the
exception of two, represent GOP. The Chief Executive Officer is the Managing
Director, appointed upon joint nomination by Burmah Oil Public Limited Company
(BOC), (previous owner and stockholder) and West Pakistan Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation (WPIDC), (second largest stockholder), and after confirmation
by the government.
Organization and Management
4.04     Senior Management consists of two General Managers (Finance and Oper-
ations), reporting to the Managing Director, together with the four managers
responsible for the four main activities (Projects, Personnel, Audit and Com-
pany Secretary). The Managers of Finance, Administration, Purchases and
Stores, and Corporate Planning report to the General Manager of Finance. The
Managers of Distribution, Transmission, Sales, Telecommunications, and Civil
Construction report to the Manager of Operations. (The organization chart
appears in Annex 4.02). The Senior Management consists of competent, well
experienced Pakistani nationals and the operations of the company are well
run.
4.05     The business risk associated with the (outside) contracting activi-
ties (see paras. 3.10 and 4.01) differs considerably from the business risk
associated with the main activity, processing and transportation of gas. At
this time, Company maintains separate sets of accounts for the revenues and
cost of outside contracting in reasonable details. This practice should con-
tinue, but in addition, separate financial and managerial objectives have to
be developed. Ultimately, the efficiency of contracting activities might
improve by creating a separate (affiliated) construction company. The way to
accomplish the above-mentioned will be discussed during negotiations.



- 26 -
Staffing and Training
4.06     SNGPL has an overall staff of approximately 3,800, including 400 pro-
fessionals. The growth of the number of employees was causoed primarily by
hiring in the Distribution (and to a lesser extent Civil Construction) depart-
ments, as a result of rapid increases in residential gas connections and the
construction activities outside the company. These two departments now have
approximately 490 employees, including 50 professionals.  Thze average growth
of personnel recently has been about 7% a year which is reasonable given the
growth of SNGPL.
4.07     Approximately 90% of the total workforce is unionized, with the
balance represented by non-unionized company officers. The overall relation-
ship between labor and management remains good.  The two year labor contract
was extended until June 1983, providing 15% salary increases across the board,
together with 6% annual increases. The total package of wages and benefits is
considered attractive by local standards. Although the increases in salaries
of the professionals are lagging behind the unionized persoinel, the turnover
of the professional staff (2.9%) is relatively low.
4.08     Training is the responsibility of the Manager of Personnel.  Under
Project IV, the Bank financed an extensive overseas training program, focusing
on general management and technical training in gas distribution and transmis-
sion.  The technical and managerial capabilities of the staff were upgraded
but the weakness of the program was lack of control. It is recommended that a
similar, but more tightly controlled, training program be implemented under
Project V.  During negotiations assurances were obtained frcm SNGPL that by
December 31, 1983 it will prepare a staff training program satisfactory to the
Bank and proposed measures to implement it.
Accounting and Audit
4.09     SNGPL has an efficient accounting system functioning in accordance
with commercial practice and the requirements of the Companies Act of
Pakistan. The external auditor's reports are prepared by two independent
firms and are unqualified. The head of the Audit Department reports to the
Managing Director and his staff (13) are well qualified. The reports from the
internal auditors are made available to the Managing Director and outside
auditors. The internal control procedures are satisfactory. SNGPL is audited
jointly by A.G. Ferguson & Co. and Zahid, Amin & Co., both Pakistani firms
with offices in Lahore. Audited accounts are published annually within an
acceptable period after the end of each fiscal year. Semi-annual unaudited
accounts are also published to meet the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Rules of 1971. In conformity with the terms of the (SNGPL IV) 1107-
PAK Loan agreement, the auditors also certify whether the Company has complied
with the Bank's loan agreement. These auditing arrangements are satisfactory
and the existing covenant should be continued in the proposed loan.
Management Information System
4.10     SNGPL has an elaborate budgetary control system.  Annual capital and
revenue budgets are submitted to the Finance Committee and the Board of Direc-
tors for their consideration. Internal reports include, inter alia monthly



- 27 -
reporting of detailed budgeted and actual capital expenditure, billings, oper-
ating costs, and progress reports on construction work. The Company has an
effective billing and collection system and has no problem of arrears.
Recently, SNGPL has acquired a new computer. Most accounting functions, pre-
viously handled by an outside computer service, are now handled internally.
The further computerization of reporting systems is limited by availability of
experienced programmers in Pakistan.
4.11     The recently completed GDC gas study provided an overall framework
for gas investment planning and it is intended that GOP should periodically
update and revise a national gas development plan. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained from SNGPL that it will prepare and submit to GOP and the
Bank on an annual basis, a five-year corporate plan including, inter alia,
supply demand projections, Borrower's investment program, a forecast of its
profitability, the projected balance sheet and cash flow, a justification for
its major investments, together with details of its pricing, economic and
financial assumptions (see para. 5.10).
Insurance
4.12     The major insurance policies are with the State owned National Insur-
ance Company. SNGPL carries adequate liability and property insurance on its
facilities including a collective fire and consequential loss of profit policy
and a public liability policy. These policies are in accordance with the
industry practice in Pakistan and are considered adequate.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
5.01     SNGPL's financial and accounting systems are governed by the regula-
tions of the Companies Act of Pakistan and GOP; the acCounts are reliable and
accurate. Although the key financial parameters (financing, investments,
sales, borrowings, etc.) are closely related to GOP policy decisions, the
present administration and organizational framework enables SNGPL to operate
in a financially responsible and reasonably autonomous position. Past poli-
cies have made it possible for SNGPL to perform satisfactorily so far and it
is expected that this will continue in the future.
Past Performance
5.02     SNGPL's audited Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and Sources and
Applications of Funds Statements over the period FY80-82 appear at Annex
5.01. Income Statements over the past three years can be summarized as
follows:



- 28 -
Summary of Past Income Statements
Year                                     FY80       FY81      FY82
Gas Sales (MMCFD)                       298.9      320.3     339.2
(PR millions)
Gas-Related Activities
Revenue                                 9231/      734     1,166
Operating income                        259        169       218
Construction-Related Activities
Revenue                                 ---        243         40
Operating income                        ---         70         7
Consolidated Activities
Revenue                                   923        977     1,206
Operating Income                          259        239       225
Net Profit                                 71        133        77
Operating income as a
% of total Revenue                       28         24        19
Net income as a
% of total Revenue                        8         14         6
Rate of return on
net fixed assets 2/                      16         16        14
Operating ratio                            72         76        81
1/  Includes construction related activities.  Separate accounts for gas
related activities and outside constructing revenues and costs have only
been maintairned since FY81 (see para. 4.05)
2/  Partially revalued fixed assets (sese para 5.05).
As a result of constraints in the suppLy of gas, SNGPL experLenced only a
modest growth of sales volumes; however, the revenue increased significantly
in FY82 because of an increase in the prescribed price. Operating income
declined below the FY81 level because the higher revenues were inadequate to
compensate for the impact of increased operating costs. The revenues and
operating income related to outside contracting activities fluctuated widely
in the last few years; in FY81 it represented 25% of total revenues, but only
3% in FY82. Overall net profit in FY82 declined to FY80 levels due to higher
interest charges and the devaluation of the Pakistan rupee, which increased
the cost of servicing SNGPL's foreign debt. Since SNGPL only partially reval-
ued its assets (see para 5.05), the apparent high rate of return is not indi-
cative of its real earnings. However, the overall financial position is
satisfactory.



- 29 -
5.03     SNGPL'S balance sheet as of June 30, 1982 is summarized below:
BALANCE SHEET
RP million   US$ million    %
Current assets                     756            60.5        35
Less current liabilities          (535)          (42.8)      (25)
221           17.7         10
Net fixed assets                  1757           140.6        81
Other assets                       193            15.4         9
2171          173.7        100
Debt!!                            1526           122.1        70
Equity                             645            51.6        30
2171          173.7        100
Debt/Equity Ratio                  65/35
Current Ratio                       1.4
1/ Including provision for deferred taxation.
In FY82 SNGPL had a debt/equity ratio of 65:35, which is in line with the
present debt/equity covenant under Loan 1107 PAK (SNGPL IV), and the current
ratio was 1:4. The debt service coverage ratio was adequate (1.7 in FY82).
5.04     During the period FY80-82 capital expenditures, albeit relatively
small, increased at the rate of 30% per year although internally generated
funds declined. The main reason for the decline was lower operating income,
lower other income and the replenishment of working capital. Nevertheless,
SNGPL was able to finance 56% of its investment program from its own
resources, which is considered satisfactory. The remainder came from funds
borrowed locally.
5.05     Under Bank loan 1107-PAK (SNGPL IV) of May 1975 it is inter alia pro-
vided that SNGPL should earn a 12% Rate of Return on revalued net fixed
assets. To date SNGPL has only partially adjusted the value of its assets to
reflect the revaluation of foreign loans used to finance those assets. The
loan agreement also provides that SNGPL shall establish and maintain tariffs
(i.e. the prescribed prices) which will provide revenues sufficient to enable
SNGPL to internally generate funds to finance out of its own funds a reason-
able part of new capital investment. Considering that the investment program
was small the implication of incomplete compliance with the rate of return
convenant was limited and the internal cash generation was adequate. Since
appraisal, SNGPL has prepared the required data and information required to
fully revalue its assets, and therefore, during negotiations assurances were
obtained from SNGPL that by September 30, 1983, it will revalue its assets as
of June 30, 1983, on a basis acceptable to the Bank. Since the Pakistan
accounting code does not permit a revaluation of assets, SNGPL will provide
revalued statements on pro-forma basis in memorandum accounts.



- 30 -
Penalties
5.06     In 1958 SNGPL made a long-term gas purchase (supply) contract with
Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), subsequently amended in 1964 and 1976, for
the supply of gas from the Sui field. Under the contract, PPL undertakes to
deliver to SNGPL annually a maximum of 409 MMCFD at an average of 340 MMCFD,
including the amount of gas needed for compression. However, the contract
does not guarantee a minimum level of gas deliveries by PPL. SNGPL is also
receiving small quantities of gas from the northern Potwar fields (mainly
Meyal) but these transactions are not supported by contracts. SNGPL is not
guaranteed minimum gas deliveries, although it is obligated under its sales
contracts with major customers (primarily WAPDA and fertilizer companies) to
deliver specified minimum quantities subject to financial penalties for fail-
ure to supply. Because of the increasing gas shortages, GOP has allocated gas
to users in the peak periods in accord with its guidelines. Since the use of
gas for power generation is of a relatively low value, substantial cuts in gas
supply to WAPDA have been mandated by GOP. Under the terms of its gas supply
contracts, SNGPL is then subject to penalty provisions and had to make sub-
stantial penalty payments to WAPDA. (In FY81 SNGPL paid penalties amounting
to PR 8.3 million and in FY82 PR 15.3 mnillion). Since the curtailment to
WAPDA is mandated by GOP policy, SNGPL should not suffer losses. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained from GOP that the existing gas supply con-
tracts with WAPDA will be revised in FY85 and the penalty clauses elim-
inated. In the meantime, SNGPL will be allowed to recover the penalties
through tariff increases. GOP furthermore stated that it is the present pol-
icy that future contracts should be concluded on an interruptible basis.
Financial Prospects
5.07     In assessing the future financial performance of SNGPL, the following
factors have to be taken into account:
(i)  the existing supply contract for gas from Sui field will
expire in the year 2000; as a result, unless additional gas
supplies are secured, there will be considerable uncertainty
over the future of SNGPL beyond the year 2000. Therefore the
debt of SNGPL should lbe substantially reduced by that time,
with appropriate interim targets;
(ii) like any gas utility, SNGPL should be able to finance, from
internally generated Eunds, a reasonable portion of its
investment program in the foreseeable future;
(iii) appropriate assurances3 should be secured with regard to
external financing as and when required, including, but not
limited to required authorizations, guarantees and equity
increases.
(iv) Under the Surcharge Ordinance from 1967, GOP has introduced a
gas development surchage (GDS) which is colLected by SNGPL
and transferred to GOiP. GDS currently accounts for a sub-
stantial portion of the Prescribed Price.  It is budgetted by
GOP at the beginning of the fiscal year and adjusted at the
end of the year, taking into consideration SNGPL's financial



- 31 -
requirements. This makes it possible to retroactively adjust
SNGPL's revenues, without changing the selling price to con-
sumers.
(v) The net fixed assets of SNGPL used as a basis for determin-
ing the prescribed price increases will be fully revalued
annually in accordance with methods and principles acceptable
to the Bank.
5.08     Financial projections for the period FY83-88 appear at Annex 5.01 and
related financial assumptions are at Annex 5.03. The forecast is based on the
following assumptions:
(i) the prescribed price increases are assumed as follows:
FY   Tariff Increase %   Cumulative Tariff Increase %
83             4                          4
84           10                          14
85           11                          25
86             6                         31
87             3                         34
88             5                         39
(ii)  the bulk of the external financing requirements will be met
by borrowings (therefore no equity increase);
(iii) the volume of gas sales is based on contractual deliveries
committed to SNGPL based on established reserves so that
there will be no new gas supply contract to SNGPL (beyond
those securing the additional 19 MMCFD from PPL and 55 MMCFD
released by WAPDA, see paras. 3.03 and 3.05);
(iv) no penalties for failure to supply customers are charged to
SNGPL (see para. 5.06); and
(v) dividends will be paid only out of undistributed profit.



- 32 -
5.09      Taking into account the assumptions above, the financial performance
of SNGPL through FY88 would be as follows:
Financial Prospects
YEAR                         FY83      FY8 4     FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
Gas sales in volume
(MMCFD)                   358.8    377.5    389.6    421.3    434.7    435.8
(in PR millions)
Gross sales                 1693      1820      1882      2021      2091      2117
Operating income             166       281       375       441       460        471
Net profit                    44        57        60        89       118       144
Debt equity                54:46    64:36    62:38    54:46        45:55    34:66
Rate of return % 1/            8        10        10        10        10        10
Current ratio                1.4       1.6       1.0       1.4       1.4       1.4
Internal contri-
bution toward
investment
program (in %)               5 2/    20         57        79        97        12
Operating ratio               89        84        82        81        81        82
Debt Service Coverage        1.8       1.6       1.9       1.2       1.8       1.3
1/  Fully revalued assets.
2/  Internal contribution towards investment is defined as ratio of funds
available for investment to average investment program for current and
next year.  Since FY84 investment iLs very heavy, the FY83 internal
contribution percentage appears artificially low.
Sales volume will increase by 21%, the forecast operating income will be 2.8
times higher than in FY83 and the net profit will more than triple during the
period under review. The liquidity position of the company remains satisfac-
tory. The forecast indicates that the projected increase in prescribed price
will cause a substantial improvement of SNGPL's capital structure. The debt
equity ratio will decline from 65/35 in FY82 to 35/65 in FY88. This improve-
ment is desirable to alleviate the increasing risks because of declining gas
supplies. Of course, should the cost of gas to SNGPL increase, a higher
tariff adjustment would be required. This is likely to happen as, under the
terms of the Sui Field pricing formula, the cost of Sui Gas is expected to
increase substantially over the period FY83-85. In addition, GOP agreed at
negotiations that if increased costs to WAPDA resulting from switching from
Sui to Mari gas are passed on to SNGPL, then SNGPL will be permitted to
recover these costs through adjustments in the prescribed price.



- 33 -
5.10     SNGPL's financing plan for the period FY83-88 can be summarized as
follows:
Financing Plan FY83-88
PR Million    US$ Million             %
Income                                       2433             195               71
Depreciation                                 2323             186               67
Subtotal                            4756             381              138
LESS:  Dividends                              288              23                8
Debt Service                          2712             217               79
Working Capital Changes                184              15                5
Taxes                                  496              40               15
Subtotal                            3680             295              107
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                     1076              86               31
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Project V                             2460             197               71
Other                                  993              79               29
Subtotal                            3453             276              100
RESOURCE GAP                                 2377             190               69
Financed by:
Bank Loan                              538              43               16
Long Term Borrowing                   1448             116               42
Contribution in Aid                    391              31               11
Equity                                   0               0                0
Total                               2377             190               69
Under the present forecast 31% of SNGPL's investment program would be financed
from internal sources. Of the remainder, 58% would be provided from long-term
borrowings, and 11% from consumer contributions. The required 31% internal
contribution towards the investment program would be achieved by earning a 10%
rate of return on fully revalued fixed assets. This rate of return is reason-
able when related to the cost of capital in Pakistan and is expected to result
in an improvement of SNGPL's income position compared to 12% rate of return on
partially revalued fixed assets. Therefore, at loan negotiations it was
agreed that GOP would set prescribed prices to ensure that in each year from
FY84 SNGPL would achieve a 10% rate of return on fully revalued assets. Under
loan 1107-PAK (SNGPL IV), SNGPL is required to contribute a reasonable portion
toward the investment program, in addition to funds needed for debt service,
taxes, dividends and working capital. At negotiations it was agreed with GOP
and SNGPL to continue this covenant for the proposed loan. Furthermore, during
negotiations GOP undertook to provide SNGPL with sufficient funds, in addition
to the proceeds of the loan from the Bank, commercial loans, contribution in
aid and local borrowings, the required amount to meet the expenditure in each
year for the project specified in the financial plan for the period FY83-88.
It was agreed that this plan will be reviewed annually (see para 4.11), for



- 34 -
the first time before September 31, 19533 to determine the requirement for each
fiscal year. During the review the financial resources from internally
generated funds and from equity funds (if required) shall be determined and
appropriate measures necessary to generate such funds, including the extent
and timing of the adjustment to the prescribed price, agreed.
5.11     In addition, during negotiations SNGPL agreed to:
(a) not permit the debt/equity ratio to be higher than 70:30 from
FY83 through FY86; 65:35 by the end of FY87; 60:40 by the end of
FY88; and subsequently the ratio will decline by 5 percentage
points annually. This decrease in the ratio is designed to
reflect the increasing r:Lsk of the lender related to the dimin-
ishing resources of gas supplied to SNGPL under the existing
contracts (para. 5.07(i)).
(b)  provide that the consolidated current assets should at no time
be less than consolidated current liabilities.
(c) not make any investments (other than carrying out the Investment
Program) which would exceed US$5 million without Bank's concur-
rence.
(d) provide that the dividensl will be declared only; (i) out of the
undistributed profit, (ii) such that after dividend payment the
current assets would be at least equal to current liabilities;
and (iii) to the extent that it does not cause the debt:equity
ratio to exceed 65/35 during the investment period.
(e)  it will maintain in principle all the remaining covenants from
SNGPL IV 1107 PAK, listed at Appendix 5.04.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Benefits
6.01     SNGPL is one component of a set of investmen s which will increase
domestic gas supply by 155 MMCFD of SML quality gas.-   Assuming an average
offtake equal to 90% of peak capacity, the additional gas avalilable annually
will average 140 MMCFD. Over the remainder of the 1980's, even if proven gas
fields are expanded to their maximum production rates, there will continue to
be inadequate gas supply to meet the fuel requirements of new thermal power
plants. For the purpose of evaluating the economic benefits, fuel oil is
assumed to be the marginal fuel displaced by natural gas. Thie current export
price of surplus fuel oil in Pakistan is US$170 per ton ex-Karachi; this is
used as the base price and kept constant in real terms.
1/ 19 MMCFD of SUL and 187 MMCFD of lolwer heating value Mari gas.



- 35 -
6.02     In principle, domestic or imported coal could displace fuel oil in
thermal power generation in which case the economic value of gas would be
based on coal equivalence rather than fuel oil equivalence. In practice, how-
ever, coal should only be treated as the marginal fuel substitute if it is
expected that the entire demand for fuel oil will actually be displaced by
coal. This is extremely unlikely in view of the current uncertainty surround-
ing the economics of both domestic and imported coal and the lags involved in
installing the required plant once decisions are made. In all the energy pro-
jections made for GOP recently, the marginal fuel is fuel oil. Nevertheless,
to test for sensitivity, the economic rate of return is also evaluated assum-
ing imported coal as the marginal fuel at an into-power station delivered cost
at Karachi of US$65 per ton.
Economic Costs
6.03     The costs used in the analysis include all capital and operating
expenditures (other than transfer payments) incurred in producing and deliver-
ing the incremental gas supply. This includes the costs of expanding produc-
tion from Mari and Sui Upper limestone; of constructing and operating the
Mari-Guddu pipeline; converting Guddu units I and II from Sui to Mari gas; and
the costs of expanding the SNGPL system. The total investment cost (in con-
stant 1982 dollars) is estimated at US$ 273 million. Based on current esti-
mates, the marginal cost of additional gas at the burner tip (using a discount
rate of 10%) is US$1.29/MCF (i.e., about $7.60 per barrel of oil equiva-
lent). A depletion cost for the gas has not been included, but in view of the
high reserves to production ratio (over 30 years) and the high economic rate
of return of the project this would not alter the economic justification.
Economic Rate of Return
6.04     The economic projections are summarized in the table below.
Net Present
Internal Rate    Value - 15%   Cost of Gas
Of Return (%)   (US$ Million)   (US$/MCF)
Base Case                            60               497           1.29
10% Higher Costs                     55               477           1.39
Production Delay (1 year)            42               375           1.50
3% Oil Price Escalation              67               652           ----
Coal as Marginal Fuel Substitute   35                 205           ----
The economic rate of return in the base case is about 60% and the net present
value with a 15% discount rate is US$497 million. The table indicates that if
costs are higher than expected or production delayed, the internal rate of
return remains above 40%. In the most conservative case where coal, delivered
at 60% of the cost of fuel oil (on a heat equivalent basis), is treated as the
marginal fuel subsitute, the economic rate of return exceeds 35% and the net
present value is US$205 million.



- 36 -
Project Risks
6.05     The project depends crucially on the timely availability of addi-
tional gas from Sui and Mari. One prcoject risk relates to the physical avail-
ability of sufficient reserves. Both PPL and Esso Eastern (as well as GDC for
GOP) have commissioned recent reservoir studies which confirm with a high
degree of confidence the producibility of the required gas. Although there is
always some reserves risk in petroleum projects these risks are acceptable.
The economic analysis indicates that even if production was 25% less than
planned, the economic rate of return would still exceed 44%.
6.06     Another project risk is that field development, construction of the
Mari-Guddu pipeline and conversion of Guddu units I and II mlight not be com-
pleted in time to release the Sui gas to SNGPL. This risk will be minimized
by ensuring at loan negotiations that a satisfactory, achievable development
program has been prepared and satisfactory commercial arrangements finalized
among the concerned parties. The economic analysis indicates that if gas
deliveries were delayed for one year, the economic rate of return would still
exceed 40%.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Prior to negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOP that:
(a) agreement has been reached on the transfer of Mari field
ownership to Fauji Foundation; the new owners plan to expand
Mari production to 387 MMCFD by 1985; and the new owners plan to
contract to sell the incremental gas to WAPDA (para. 3.04);
(b) if SNGPL should be subject to penalty clauses in gas contracts
with WAPDA due to curtailment decisions by GOP, then it would be
permitted to recoup the losses through adjustment of the
prescribed price (para. 5.06).
7.02     During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOP that:
(a)  prior to allocating newly-discovered gas or making significant
changes in the existing allocation, it will carry out a study
satisfactory to the Bank designed to determine the optimum
allocation of such gas to highest value users (para. 2.24);
(b) by September 30, 1984 it will prepare and submit to the Bank and
update annually, a medium-term gas plan designed to ensure
optimum gas production from proven fields and its allocation to
highest value users (para. 2.25);
(c) it will provide to SNGPL or cause SNGPL to be provided with all
necessary authorizations, licenses, guarantees and other under-
takings which might be required by SNGPL in order to carry out,
in a timely manner, the investment program and to borrow money
(paragraph 5.07);



- 37 -
(d) it will provide to SNGPL, or cause to be provided, sufficient
funds to meet the project expenditures (para. 5.10);
(e) it will grant, in a timely manner, the increases in the pre-
scribed price required by SNGPL to comply with the proposed cov-
enants (para. 5.08);
(f) if increased costs to WAPDA resulting from switching from Sui to
Mari gas are passed on to SNGPL, then SNGPL will be permitted to
recover these costs through adjustments in the prescribed price
(para. 5.09).
(g) it will cause WAPDA to (a) release by September 30, 1985 55
MMCFD of raw Sui gas from Guddu; (b) enter into an agreement
with the Mari field owners to purchase incremental gas from the
planned field expansion from September 30, 1985; and (c) arrange
for the construction by September 30, 1985 of the Mari-Guddu
pipeline and conversion of the Guddu I and II steam boilers
(para. 3.06).
7.03     During negotiations assurances were obtained from SNGPL that:
(a) it will prepare an# submit to the Bank annually a five-year
corporate plan including financial projections (para. 4.11);
(b) it will carry out a detailed study of the availability of excess
summer gas and that, if availability is confirmed, it will
engage consultants to undertake a feasibility study of peak load
shaving (para. 2.26);
(c) not later than September 30, 1983, it will revalue its assets as
of June 30, 1983, using methods and principles acceptable to the
Bank and provide pro-forma statements in memorandum accounts
(see paragraph 5.05);
(d) it will maintain prescribed prices for the supply of gas to per-
mit concurrently (i) the financing of a reasonable portion of
SNGPL's investment program with internally generated funds, and
(ii) to maintain an annual rate of return of 10% on the value of
net fixed assets, revalued in accordance with appropriate
valuation principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank
(paragraph 5.10);
(e) shall not permit the debt to equity ratio to be higher than
70/30 during FY83 through FY86; 65/35 by the end of FY87; 60/40
by the end of FY88; and declining 5 percentage points annually
thereafter (para. 5.11);
(f) the consolidated current assets should not be less than consoli-
dated current liabilities (paragraph 5.11);



- 38 -
(g)  SNGPL shall not make any investments (other than carrying out
the investment program) which would exceed US$5 million without
Bank's concurrence (paragraph 5.11);
(h) dividends will be declared only (i) out of the undistributed
profit, (ii) such that after dividend payment the current assets
would be at least equal to current liabilities, and (iii) to the
extent that it does not cause the debt to equity ratio to exceed
65/35 during the investment period;
(i) it will maintain in principle all the remaining covenants from
SNGPL IV 1107 PAK, listed at Appendix 5.04 (paragraph 5.11);
(j) it will prepare and submit for review by the Bank byDecember 31,
1983 a satisfactory training program and proposed measures to
implement the program (para. 4.08);
(k) it will enter into an agreement with PPL whereby PPL shall
commit to SNGPL to make available from September 30, 1985 the 55
MMCFD of raw Sui gas released from Guddu (para. 3.06); and
(1) it will enter into an agreement with PPL to supply an additional
19 MMCFD of purified Sui gas from the beginning of 198 4 until at
least 1988 (para. 3.03).
7.04      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) commitments to provide required commercial cofinancing on terms
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been obtained (para. 3.18);
(b)  SNGPL shall have signed an agreement with PPL whereby PPL shall
make available by September 30, 1985, 55 MMCFD of raw Sui gas
released from Guddu (para. 3.06);
(c) SNGPL shall have signed an agreement with PPL whereby PPL shall
make available from Januiary 1, 1984 until at least December 31,
1988, 19 MMCFD of Sui Upper Limestone gas (para. 3.03); and
(d)  WAPDA shall have entered into an agreement with the Mari field
owners to purchase the additional gas supply resulting from the
planned field expansion from September 30, 1985 (para. 3.05).
7.05     Subject to agreement and assurances on the above, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$43.0 million (including US$0.1 million front
end fee) for a period of 17 years including a 3-year grace period with the
guarantee of GOP.



ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR (FY 73-82)
(Unit: TOE 1Y)
FY73        FY74        FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78          FY79         FY80         FY81         FY82
Residential         673,962    779,874    933,946    960,385  1,116,629  1,325,985   11,524,563  1,582,635   1,582,982   1,767,655
%                 (9.0)       (9.8)      (10.5)       (11.1)      (12.1)      (13.3)        (14.2)      (13.1)        (12.2)       (12.9)
Commercial           154,444    180,685    205,622    238,164    267,072    306,587            311,798    373,288        414,987      439,419
%                 (2.0)       (2.2)        (2.3)       (2.7)       (2.9)       (3.0)         (2.9)        (3.1)        (3.2)        (3.2)
Industrial        2,679,178  2,816,583  2,984,160  2,897,754  2,968,395  3,248,964    3,376,700  3,760,287   4,091,755   4,262,450
%                (35.7)      (35.3)      (33.7)       (33.4)      (32.3)      (32.5)        (31.5)      (31.1)        (31.5)       (31.0)
Agriculture          611,001    512,949    642,849    588,795    583,412    690,786            670,820    751,961        692,959       696,121
%                 (8.1)       (6.4)        (7.3)       (6.8)       (6.4)       (6.9)         (6.3)        (6.2)        (5.3)        (5.1)
Transport          1,229,440  1,307,649  1,471,281  1,595,435  1,679,168  1,980,626    2,311,646  2,519,165   2,716,766   2,819,054
%                (16.4)      (16.4)       (16.6)      (18.3)      (18.3)      (19.8)        (21.5)       (20.9)       (20.9)       (20.5)
Power             1,114.954  1,361,857  1,537,233  1,332,160  1,594,653  1,443,093    1,434,283  1,922,090   2,152,586   2,321,081
x                 (14.8)      (17.1)       (17.3)      (15.5)      (17.4)      (14.4)        (13.4)       (15.9)       (16.6)       (16.9)
Fertilizer2/        232,735    254,123    264,316    267,583    268,878    269,186             340,684    393,799        530,281       610,101
%                 (3.1)       (3.2)        (3.0)       (3.1)       (2.9)       (2.7)         (3.2)        (3.3)        (4.1)        (4.4)
Other Govt.          809,844    764,992    815,071    784,732    710,183    728,588             752,532    768,070       798,258       826,078
%                (10.8)       (9.6)        (9.2)       (9.0)       (7.7)       (7.3)         (7.0)        (6.4)        (6.2)        (6.0)
Total             7,505,558  7,978,712  8,854,478  8,665,008  9,188,389  9,993,815   10,723,026 12,071,295  12,979,674  13,741,959
(100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)          (100)       (100)        (100)        (100)
1/   Tons of oil equivalent,based on indigenous crude of 19,000 Btu/lb.
-/' Excluding feedstock, which accounts for 60 percent of total gas supply to fertilizer industry.
Source: Directorate General of Energy Resources, GOP.



ENERGY SUPPLY BY SOURCE (FY 73-82)
(Unit: TOE)
FY73       FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81        FY82
Oil (excluding ex-
port and bunkering)   2,929,053  3,115,267  3,626,953  3,339,543  3,544,335  3,811,968  4,282,468  4,662,432  4,868,420  5,005,676
x                       (40.0)     (39.5)     (41.2)     (38.9)     (39.0)     (37.7)     (38.8)     (37.4)      (36.6)     (35.7)
Gas (excluding
feedstock)            2,742,250  3,130,790  3,398,174  3,303,947  3,636,797  3,875,182  4,106,149  4,991,615  5,546,492  5,903,950
Z                       (37.4)     (39.7)     (38.6)     (38.5)     (40.0)     (38.3)     (37.2)     (40.0)      (41.7)     (42.1)
Coal                       553,528    555,565    590,255    484,080    552,102    570,183    620,454    701,930    705,513    754,900
%                        (7.5)      (7.0)      (6.7)      (5.7)      (6.1)      (5.6)      (5.6)      (5.6)       (5.3)      (5.4)
Hydel (excluding auxi-                                                                                                                      o
liary consumption)    1,032,855    986,624  1,038,558  1,294,922  1,235,362  1,773,118  1,961,346  2,076,192  2,109,219  2,268,320
%                       (14.1)     (12.5)     (11.8)     (15.1)     (13.6)     (17.5)     (17.8)     (16.6)      (15.9)     (16.2)
Nuclear (excluding Auxi-
liary consumption)       65,307     98,617    130,000    131,067     90,471     49,625     22,765        430      32,776     43,561
(0.9)      (1.2)      (1.5)      (1.5)      (1.0)      (0.5)      (0.2)    (0.003)      (0.2)       (0.3)
L.P.G.                       5,770      6,087     14,596     22,765     24,530     31,958     37,054     40,280      42,085     50,227
%                        (0.1)      (0.1)      (0.2)      (0.3)      (0.3)      (0.3)      (0.4)      (0.3)       (0.3)      (0.3)
Total                    7,328,763  7,892,950  8.798,540  8,576,324  9.083,597 10,112,034 11,030,236 12,472,879 13,304.505 14,026,634
%                        (100)      (100)      (100)      (100)      (100)      (100)      (100)      (100)       (100)      (100)
Source:  Directorate General of Energy Resources, GOP.



ANNEX 1.03
- 41 -
POWER GENERATION PROGRAM
(Tentative)
Sixth Plan (FY 84-88)
Hydel Generation
Project                 Installed                Date of
Capacity (MW)            Commissioning
Tarbela 9                  175                   December 1984
Tarbela 10                 175                   June 1985
Mangla 9 & 10              200                   December 1986
550
Thermal Generation
Installed           Date of
Project                             Capacity (MW)       Commissioning         Fuel
Second Quetta Gas Turbine               25              September 1983        Gas
SITE Combined Cycle                     100             1984
Pipri D-1, Steam                        200             September 1983        Fuel oil
Ship-mounted Generation                 200             1984                  Fuel oil
Pipri D-2, Steam                        200-            September 1984        Fuel oil
Guddu Gas Turbines                      300             July 1985             Gas
Guddu IV, Steam                         210             January 1986          Gas
Guddu Combined Cycle                    150             July 1987
Jamshoro, Steam                         1000            December 1987         Fuel oil/coal
Guddu V, Steam                          210             1988                  Gas/fuel oil
2,595
mw
Present derated capacity 1/            4,440
Addition during Sixth Plan             3,145
Total capacity at end of Sixth Plan  7,585
Reduction for low hydel                1,600
Net availability                       5,985
Peak demand, FY 88                     6,600
Peak shortfall, FY 88                   (615)
1/  Installed capacity of WAPDA, KESC, PAEC - 4787 MW,
inclusive of Tarbela Units 5-8 (700 MW) commissioned
during the first half of FY 83.
Source: WAPDA, GOP



PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF RAW GAS ANALYSIS
Sui 1/          Sui
Main          Upper
Dhodak      Kandhkot      Mari       Mazarani      Meyal      Pirkoh      Sari       Hundi      Limestone      Limestone
Composition of gas
Methane                                79.47         79.20    71.20           87.00      78.26       81.91    78.92        79.40           88.52          92.17
Ethane                                  7.84          1.10      0.20           2.50      10.44        0.46      2.18        1.62           0.89            0.98
Propane                                 3.57          0.20         -           1.00       3.94        0.20      0.81        0.42           0.26            0.25
Butane Plus                             3.11          0.40         -           1.20       2.21        0.06      0.14        0.06           0.37            0.12
Oxygen                                     -             -         -              -       0.83           -         -           -               -              -
Nitrogen                                4.31         16.60    19.50            8.00       3.87       11.05    15.96        17.04            2.46           5.28
Carbon Dioxide                          1.70          2.50      9.00           0.30       0.45        6.34      1.99        1.46            7.35           1.20
Hydrogen Sulphide (grains/100 CFT)         -         30.30      0.10          10.70      14.00           -         -           -          92.20            0.05
Sulphur (Mercaptains) (Grains/ft3)         -          1.20         -              -          -           -         -           -            3.80              -
Gross Heating Value (Btu/ft3)          1,150           842       723            976      1,156         840       870         830             933            984
Net Hydrocarbon gas                    93.99         80.90    71.40           91.70      94.85       82.63    82.05        81.50          90.04           93.52
1/  SML Purified:  C1 94.223 C2 0.96, C3 0.28, C4 0.13, N2 4.10, C02 0.06, H2S nil, Mercaptans nil.
Heat value = 994 Btu/ft
Source: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (GDC Gas Study, 1982)



PROVED GAS RESERVES
(Unit: TCF)
Gross
Gross                      Gross                  Remaining
Recovery    Gross      Cumulative   Remaining    Estimated    Remainingr                Reserves
Gas in    Factor    Ultimate   Production   Reserves       Production   Reserves                 Equated to
Fields       Place      (%)      Recovery      1-1-81      1-1-81        -1981         1-1-82     Btu/f-t-.       SML
Dhodak        0.89      75          0.67          0         0.67             0           0.67    1,150             0.83
Khandhkot     0.17      75          0.13          0         0.13             0           0.13      842             0.12
Mari          6.00      75          4.50         0.16       4.34            0.04         4.30      723             3.33
Mazarani      0.04      70          0.02          0         0.02             0           0.02       976             0.03
Meyal          -         -          0.17          -         0.17            0.01         0.16    1,156             0.20
Pirkoh        0.45      75          0.34          0         0.34             0           0.34      840             0.30       4
Sari          0.05      60          0.03         0.01       0.02             -           0.02      870             0.02
Hundi         0.08      62          0.05         0.01       0.04             -           0.04      830              0.03
Sui Upper
Limestone     1.10      65          0.71         0.01       0.70             -           0.70      984             0.74
Sui Main
Limestone    12.25      80          9.80         2.24       7.56            0.25         7.31      933              7.31
TOTAL:       21.03       -         16.42         2.43      13.99            0.30        13.69         -           12.91
Source: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (GDC Gas Study, 1982)



POSSIBLE GAS RESERVES
(Unit: TCF)
Fields       Gas in Place      Recovery Factor     Gross Remaining Reserves    Btu/SCF        Gross Remaining Reserves
(%)           ___                                             Equated to SML
Kandhkot         0.25                75                        0.19                842                   0.17
Mazarani         0.04                70                        0.02                976                   0.03
Pirkoh           1.04                75                        0.78                840                   0.70
TOTAL            1.33                -                         0.99                 -                    0.90
Source: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (GDC Gas Study, 1982)
I
fi'
0



Annex 2.04
- 45 -                          Page 1 of 4
The Principal Gas Fields and Their Production Potential l/
1.       Discovered in 1952, the Sui field was brought on production in
1955. As of January 1982, there were 31 wells in the field: No. 1 was an
observation well, Nos. 2 to 30 were producers and No. 31 was being drilled.
The main producing zone, Sui Main Limestone (SML), at an average depth of
4,100 feet in the Laki formation of lower Eocene age, has been the principal
natural gas supply source of the country. Composed mainly of foraminifers,
the producing zone is believed to have originated in reef shoal and is
relatively clear of shales and clays. Above the producing zone, Ghazij shale
forms a sealing cap. Net pay varies from 770 feet at the top of the formation
to about 100 feet at the flanks. The gas column rests on water with a
transition zone between the gas and water. Original gas-water contact has
been identified at 4,060 feet subsea. Bottom-hole pressure data indicates no
definite water movement, and electrical logs show no real evidence of a rise
in the gas-water contact. The 1982 D&M study indicates that SML is a
depletion-type reservoir which is non-rate sensitive.
2.       SML gas is considered "standard gas" in Pakistan.  In the raw form,
it contains 90.1 mol percent hydrocarbons, 2.5 percent nitrogen, 7.4 percent
carbon dioxide, 92.2 grains/100 SCF hydrogen sulphide and 3.8 grains/100 SCF
free sulphur. Its heat value is 933 Btu/SCF. The gas is treated in MEA;i'
purification banks and dehydrated by the TEG3/ and desiccant processes.  As a
result of purification, net hydrocarbon content increases to 95.6 percent,
nitrogen increases to 4.1 percent, carbon dioxide decreases to less than 0.1
percent and hydrogen sulphide and free sulphur are eliminated. Purified SML
gas has a heat value of 994 Btu/SCF. In their recommendations for future
production, D&M suggest two production scenarios based on 40 and 67 well
programmes giving production capabilities of 810 and 1000 MMCFD,
respectively. Field owners, PPL, have expressed reservations on the 1000
MMCFD case on the grounds that this enhanced level of production could damage
the reservoir through water influx. GOP has decided, at least for the
present, on a field development programme yielding 810 MMCFD. To achieve
this, PPL plans to drill 11 new wells, including three dual producers for SML
and SUL reservoirs. Since production began in 1955, SML reservoir pressure
has declined by about 415 psi down to 1,550 psi by end-1981. For PPL to meet
its contracted delivery pressure commitment of 1,150 psi, simulation studies
indicate the need for installing 90,000 BHP field compression facilities over
the next ten years. The first phase of 75,000 BHP, which forms part of a
recently approved IFC project, is expected to be operational by mid-1985.
1/ Sources of data: GDC study, Vol. I and Vol. IV; and IFC Staff Appraisal
Report of July 82 for the PPL Sui Field Project.
2/ Monoethanolamine is used for the removal of hydrogen sulphide, mercaptans
(sulphur) and carbon dioxide.
3/ Triethylene Glycol is used to prevent hydrate formation in transmission
lines. Acceptable hydrate limit is about 7 lbs. water/MMCF gas.



- 46 -                         Annex 2.04
Page 2 of 4
3.       The other productive zone in the Sui field is the Sui Upper Limestone
(SUL) with an average depth of 3,900 feet, and consisting of alternating white
to light brown limestone separated by calcareous shale. Nine porous producing
zones have been identified, but logging and tests show only five to be
economically productive. SUL is separated from SML by Ghazij shales. D&M
consider SUL a depletion-type reservoir composed of several separate
members. SUL gas has a 93.5 mol percent hydrocarbon content,, 5.3 percent
nitrogen, 1.2 percent carbon dioxide, O.05 grains/100 SCF hydrogen sulphide
and no free sulphur. The low carbon diLoxide and absence of sulphur eliminates
the need for purification. Dehydration, however, is necessary. SUL gas has a
relatively high heat value of 984 Btu/SCF. D&M estimate gross recoverable
reserves of 0.70 TCF (0.74 TCF SML) and recommend a production level of 100
MMCFD. PPL, however, have agreed with GOP to achieve and ma.intain a
production level of 70 MMCFD through the workover of ten existing SML wells
and three new dual producers.
4.       The Mari field is located 55 miles from the Sui field and 20 miles
from SGTC's 16-inch transmission line. D&M assess the field as an
"uncomplicated anticlinal structure" covering an area of about 332 square
miles. The first well at Mari was drilled in August 1957, and up to
January 1982, 24 wells had been drilleci of which 21 were productive in the
lower Kirthar formation. The field supplies feedstock and energy needs of
three nearby fertilizer plants. Wells 4-8 were drilled in the middle sixties
for Esso Fertilizer (now Exxon Chemicals Ltd.); wells 9-16 were drilled in
1977 for the Pak-Saudi plant, and wells 17-23 for Fauji Fertilizer in 1980-
81. Well 24, originally planned as a step-out, is also productive. Wells 1
and 2 were abandoned, 7 was dry and the rest are producers. Mari gas has a
71.4 mol percent hydrocarbon content, 19.5 percent nitrogen, 9 percent carbon
dioxide and 0.1 grains/100 SCF hydrogen sulphide. Although the high inert
content results in the relatively low heat value of 723 Btu/SCF, presence of
nitrogen and carbon dioxide is beneficial in the use of gas as fertilizer
feedstock. In its present use, no purification is needed ancd, for future use
as thermal plant fuel, removal of carbon dioxide, though not necessary, is
recommended. Dehydration is required. D&M estimate Mari's gross remaining
recoverable reserves to be 4.3 TCF (3.3 TCF SML) based on a volumetric
assessment. In their 1982 report, D&M pointed out an anomaly, between the
field pressure/production history and volumetrically estimated reserves. This
could result from either a very active water drive, or a very conservative
volumetric reserve estimate, but production history is as yet too limited to
be sure. The more recent Corelab report on the Mari reservoir has also used
the volumetric approach in view of insufficient field history, to enable
estimation by pressure decline. Their estimates are close to D&M. D&MI
recommend that the present 200 MMCFD production capacity of the field (present
average day production is 169 MMCFD) be! increased by the addition of 15 wells
by 1984. This would result in average day and maximum day throughputs of 400
and 681 MMCFD, respectively. To mainta!in the limiting base pressure of 700
psi, 18 more wells will be required by 1985, followed by field compression by
1990. Corelab, however, have recommendLed three production scenarios, the
maximum of which is 410 MMCFD average d[ay and 545 MMCFD maximum day with field
compression by 1989. For this scenario, Corelab have recommended a 48 well
programme, as against D&M's 54 well programme for 400 MMCFD average day and
681 MMCFD maximum day production.



Annex 2.04
- 47 -                       Page 3 of 4
5.       Kandhkot field is located just south of Sui.  Its productive area
covers two separate features, Kandhkot West (19 square miles) and Kandhkot
East (124 square miles), in each of which one well has been drilled so far by
PPL. Productive horizons are SML and SUL. Kandhkot gas contains 80.9 mol
percent hydrocarbon, 16.6 percent nitrogen, 2.5 percent carbon dioxide, 30.8
grains/100 SCF hydrogen sulphide and 1.2 grains/100 SCF free sulphur. The
high percentage of inert nitrogen results in the relatively low heat value of
842 BTU/SCF. The high sulphur and marginally high carbon dioxide would
require MEA purification; TEG dehydration would also be necessary. The two
wells so far drilled and tests conducted are insufficient to assess reserves
accurately. D&M have recommended further seismic work and three additional
exploration wells to establish reserves and producibility. Based on present
information, D&M assess proved recoverable reserves to be 0.13 TCF (0.12 TCF
SML) and additional possible recoverable reserves of 0.19 TCF (0.17 TCF SML),
and recommend drilling ten development wells, each having an estimated
production capability of 4 MMCFD, to give a total production of 40 MMCFD.
Agreement has been reached with PPL to develop the field, and initial
production is expected in 1986.
6.       The Pirkoh field is an east-west anticline with structural closure
over an area exceeding 60 square miles. OGDC are currently drilling their
fifth well.  Pirkoh gas contains 82.6 mol percent hydrocarbons, 11.1 percent
nitrogen and 6.3 percent carbon dioxide. The gas is free of hydrogen sulphide
or sulphur.  Its heat value is 840 BTU/SCF.  High carbon dioxide content may
necessitate MEA purification. TEG dehydration would also be necessary. D&M's
volumetric assessment of gas reserves is based on the conservative assumption
that Pirkoh 1 (which tested dry gas from Ranikot and Pab sandstone) proved an
area with a radius of 1.6 miles. A volumetric reserve estimate using a larger
gas productive area cannot be justified at this stage due to inadequacy of
seismic data. Using this approach, the field's proved gross recoverable
reserves are estimated to be 0.34 TCF (0.30 TCF SML), with additional possible
recoverable reserves of 0.78 TCF (0.70 TCF SML). D&M estimate the field's
production capability to be 200 MMCFD based on a 20-well development programme
with estimated yields of 10 MMCFD per well. OGDC have taken a more
conservative approach, and plan to develop a production capability of 120
MMCFD within the next five years.
7.       The Dhodak field is approximately 175 miles north-east of the Sui
field and 80 miles from the SNGPL pipeline at Multan. Three wells drilled
along the axis of the structure have tested gas and condensate from the
Ranikot (Paleocene) and Pab (Cretaceous) sandstone reservoirs. OGDC is
currently drilling Dhodak IV. The first three wells were-drilled on the crest
of the structure and were thus unable to provide sub-surface confirmation of
the dips in the structure's flanks. Hence D&M, in assessing field reserves,
were constrained to use seismic data for determining the areal extent of the
field. However, both D&M and BEICIP-Franlabl/ have expressed reservations on
the use of this method to assess reserves. Production tests indicate
potential condensate recovery of 51 Bbl/MMCFD of gas. Hence, this field is
considered a source of condensate as well as gas. PVT analyses from both
1/ Assessment of Dhodak reservoir by BEICIP-Franlab in 1981 was financed from
a Bank PPF.



Annex 2.04
- 48 -                      Page 4 of 4
Ranikot and Pab indicate a dew-point of the gas equal to the original bottomr
hole pressure. Hence, retrograde condensation is expected to occur as
reservoir pressure declines. Presently, there is no evidence of a water drive
strong enough to maintain the reservoir pressure existing in the field. D&M
feel that Dhodak will essentially produce as a depletion-type reservoir.
Tests in Dhodak II and III indicate a gas-water contact at 5,940 feet
subsea. Dhodak gas consists of 94.0 mol percent hydrocarbons, 4.23 percent
nitrogen, 1.7 percent carbon dioxide, and is free of hydrogen sulphide and
sulphur. The high hydrocarbon content gives the high heat value of 1,150
BTU/SCF, and the low carbon dioxide and absence of sulphur would eliminate the
need for purification. D&M estimate gross remaining recoverable reserves of
gas to be 0.67 TCF (0.83 TFC SML). OGDC are currently drilling Dhodak IV, in
which they are now continuously coring the productive horizon. As recommended
by D&M, GOP have decided to delay a decision on the method of full field
development for the next few years, during which time a pilot gas reinjection
project yielding about 3,000 bpd condensate would be implemented and field
behavior would be observed.  Hence, Dhodak cannot be considered a source of
gas supply for the short term. It is, however, expected that a small quantity
of gas (8 MMCFD) would be made available during the pilot stage for the nearby
D.G. Khan cement plant.



PRODUCTION OF GAS BY AGENCY
(Unit: MMCFT (TOE))
FY                PPL             ESSO           OGDC            AOC             POL            UT                TOTAL
FY-73             121,902          10,738          --              8,273           2,181         --             143,094
(2,718,415)    (  184,694).                   (  216,753)    (   57,142)                      (3,177,004)
FY-74             143,287          10,962          --              7,085           1,827        --              163,161
(3,195,300)    (  188,546)                    (  185,627)    (   47,867)                      (3,617,340)
FY-75             154,869          11,280          --              7,009           2,797         --              175,955
(3,453,578)    (  194,016)                    (  183,636)    (   73,281)                      (3,904,511)
FY-76             150,135          11,560           3,348          6,205           4,966         --              176,214
(3,348,010)    (  198,832)    (   67,964)    (  162,571)    (  130,109)                       (3,907,486)
FY-77             158,478          11,875           4,437          5,278          10,801         --              190,869
(3,534,059)    (  204,250)    (   90,071)    (  138,284)    (  282,986)                       (4,249,650)   4.
FY-78             168,814          11,875           3,334          4,146          11,769         --              199,920
(3,764,552)    (  204,250)    (  67,680)    (  108,625)    (  308,348)                        (4,453,455)
FY-79             184,392          12,756           3,933          --             20,260         --              221,341
(4,111,942)    (  219,403)    (  79,840)                      (  530,812)                     (4,941,997)
FY-80             224,652          16,146           3,392          --             15,526         --              259,716
(5,009,739)    (  277,711)    (   68,857)                     (  406,781)                     (5,763,088)
FY-81             247,654          34,971           3,179          --             14,001         --              299,805
(5,521,961)    (  601,501)    (  64,534)                      (  366,826)                     (6,554,822)
FY-82             240,064          45,633           3,133          --             14,562              79         323,471
(5,798,668)    (  784,887)    (   63,600)                     (  381,524)    (    2,070)    (7,030,749)
0.
SOURCE:  Directorate General of Energy Resources                                                                              o



GAS CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR
(Unit: MMCFT (TOE))
General
FY            Residential      Commercial          Cement      Fertilizer    .    Power        Industries           Total
FY-73                2,983          2,305.         20,888          27,685          43,330          30,121         127,312
(   69,788)    (   53,925)    t  488,696)    (  581,837)    (1,013,734)    (  704,712)    (2,912,692)
FY-74                3,917          2,988          23,054          30,030          48,549          35,961         144,499
(   91,647)    (   69,901)       (539,385)    (  635,309)    (1,135,863)    (  841,347)    (3,313,451)
FY-75                5,065          3,520          24,668          31,203          51,801          40,489         156,746
(  118,508)    (   82,347)    (  577,130)    (  660,789)    (1,211,941)    (  947,295)    (3,598,010)
FY-76                6,206          4,214          23,848          31,625          49,515          41,507         156,915
(  145,188)    (   98,595)    (  557,941)    (  668,958)    (1,158,446)    (  971,101)    (3,600,229)
FY-77                7,498          4!684          22,535          31,805          60,837          41,666         169,025      o
(  175,420)    (  109,592)    (  527,233)    (  672,194)    (1,410,873)    (  974,812)    (3,870,124)           1
FY-78                9,813          5,303          24,236          31,873          60,328          47,941         179,494
(  229,594)    (  124,075)    (  567,037)    (  672,964)    (1,396,458)    (1,121,629)    (4,111,757)
FY-79               12,110          6,063          24,256          39,749          60,758          49,632         192,568
(  283,338)    (  141,839)    (  567,490)    (  851,710)    (1,405,600)    (1,161,207)    (4,411,184)
FY-80               14,283          6,543          25,738          46,315          80,431          54,671         227,981
(  334,163)    (  153,063)    (  602,159)    (  984,499)    (1,863,547)    (1,279,061)    (5,216,492)
FY-81               17,738          7,540          26,085          65,920          84,743          62,748         264,774
(  415,079)    (  176,435)    (  610,406)    (1,325,703)    (1,959,072)    (1,468,300)    (5,954,995)
FY-82               24,375          8,357          26,318          71,597          73,987          67,291         271,925
(  570,369)    (  195,553)       (615,852)    (1,427,639)    (1,701,349)    (1,574,608)    (6,085,370)
cS
SOURCE: Directorate General of Energy Resources



Annex 2.07
Page 1 of 3
- 51 -
Development of the Gas Transmission Network
1.       Southern System:  Following PPL's discovery of Sui, the Sui Gas
Transmission Company (SGTC) was established in February 1954, to transmit Sui
gas to the south of the country. Purification banks and dehydration
facilities were established at Sui, and a 347-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline
with a free-flow capacity of 90 MMCFD was laid between Sui and Karachi on the
left bank of the River Indus. In August 1955, Karachi Gas Company (KGC) and
Indus Gas Company (IGC) were established for distributing gas in the Karachi
area and in the rest of the Sind Province, respectively. To cater for
increasing load, two compressor stations were installed on SGTC's main
transmission line near Nawabshah and Sukkur in 1966 and 1967, increasing the
pipeline capacity to 140 MMCFD1/. Further increase in demand necessitated the
construction of the ADB-financed Sui-Karachi Indus Right Bank Pipeline (IRBP)
which was designed and constructed by SGTC. This 18-inch diameter pipeline
with a free-flow capacity of 135 MMCFD was commissioned in FY78. The small
Sari Sing and Hundi gas fields operated by OGDC were also connected to IRBP.
With these developments, the southern transmission system now has a rated
capacity of 255 MMCFD. SGTC is responsible for installing and maintaining gas
purification capacity at Sui for both the northern and southern systems. In
step with increases in transmission capability and gas load, SGTC has also
been expanding its gas purification capacity which now totals 670 MMCFD,
consisting of nine purification banks with capacities ranging from 50 to 110
MMCFD. To minimize loss of capacity due to purification bank
overhaul/maintenance downtime, SGTC are planning the addition of a 110 MMCFD
standby bank. The distribution companies IGC and KGC have a network of 463
miles of distribution lines, providing connections for power, cement, general
industrial, domestic and commercial applications. During FY81, the combined
sales of IGC and KGC were 90,545 MMCFD. However, loads continue to increase
and the distributing companies are faced with a situation of frequent load
shedding, which over recent years has reached substantial proportions.
2.       To cater for increasing laods, SGTC is executing or planning a number
of network expansion schemes including a 29,900 BHP compression project which
will increase the capacity of IRBP to 262 MMCFD by mid-1983. SGTC is also
installing additional standby compression facilities on the old 16-inch left
bank line. To utilize gas from Pirkoh field (being developed by the Pirkoh
Gas Company, a subsidiary of OGDC), SGTC is constructing a 45-mile 18-inch
line from Pirkoh to Sui with 7,500 BHP compression at Sui giving a system
capacity of 170 MMCFD. This ADB-financed project is expected to be
commissioned in mid-1984. The load on the Pirkoh-Sui system is expected to
increase from 40 MMCFD in the first year of operation to 70 MMCFD in the third
year (and to 120 MMCFD in the fifth year if sufficient reserves at Pirkokh are
proven). A 214-mile, 12-inch pipeline (capacity 33 MMCFD) from Sui to Quetta
is due to be commissioned shortly.
3.       Northern System:  Prior to 1963, the northern system consisted of a
transmission system from Sui to Multan owned by West Pakistan Industrial
1/ With reservoir depletion, this capacity has now dropped to 125 MMCFD.



Annex 2.07
-52 -                        Page 2 of 3
Development Corporation (WPIDC) and a small 6-inch gas distribution system
owned by Attock Oil Company (AOC) supplying associated gas from the Dhulian
oil field to a few consumers in Rawalpindi and Wah. These facilities were
purchased by SNGPL after its formation in 1963. SNGPL is responsible for
transmission and distribution of gas to the northern area. Since its
inception, SNGPL has undertaken four major projects, all of which the Bank has
participated in financing. Project 1 (1964-1969) comprised the extension of
Sui-Multan and Attock Oil Company gas systems, involving the construction of
about 368 miles of high-pressure transmission lines and the installation of
four gas turbine-drive centrifugal compressor stations (total 13,200 BHP) on
the Sui-Multan section. The project enabled supply of gas to Faisalabad,
Lahore and the nearby industrial complex of Kalashah Kaku in 1965-66.Project 2
(1970-1971) further expanded SNGPL's capacity from 171 MMCFD to 206 MMCFD to
meet the requirements of the Dawood Hercules fertilizer plant as well as
increased requirements of general industry. The project included laying of 97
miles of transmission lines, an additional gas compressor station of 3,300 BHP
and the enhancement of capacity of an existing station by 6,600 BHP. Project 3
(1971-1973) further expanded the system capacity to 275 MMCFD extending gas
supply to Peshawar, and other northern towns, as well as to WAPDA's thermal
station at Guddu. The project involved laying 316 miles of transmission
lines, installing two additional compressor stations each of 6,600 BHP and
enhancing the capacity of existing compressor stations by 4,000 BHP. Project 4
(1974-1982) increased the system capacity to 378 MMCFD in order to meet the
increased demand of WAPDA's thermal power stations, supply Pak-Arab Fertilizer
at Multan and extend gas supplies to additional towns in the north. As a
result of these projects, the length of SNGPL's transmission system has
increased from 215 miles to 1,447 miles and its distribution network from 77
miles to 3,845 miles. Transmission lines range from 4-inch to 24-inch
diameter. Compressor facilities (installed BHP 87,000) are spread over ten
compressor stations employing high-speed gas turbine-driven centrifugal
units. The distribution network now supplies gas to 55 cities and towns. The
number of consumers has grown from 641 in FY 74 to 370,000 in FY 81 with a
corresponding growth in sales from 8,776 MMCFD to 116,909 MMCFD. In addition
to the categories of consumers catered to by KGC and IGC in the south, SNGPL
supplies feedstock for three fertilizer plants. The present transmission
capacity of the northern system is 378 MMCFD. However, due to substantial
demand increase, extensive load-shedding has been necessary up to as much as
120 MMCFD during the low-water months of the northern reservoirs when hydel
generation is at its ebb. The worst sufferers are the WAPDA thermal power
stations (which either convert to oil or shed electric load) and general
industrial consumers.
4.       The Mari System:  Discovered in 1957 by Pak Stanvac (now Esso
Eastern), the Mari field supplies natural gas as feedstock aind power source to
three nearby fertilizer plants. The first plant to be supplied by Mari was
Esso Fertilizer (now Exxon Chemicals Litd. - ECL) at Dharki, which came on
stream in 1967 and now consumes about 38 MMCFD supplied through a 10-inch
diameter transmission line. The Pak-Saudi Fertilizer plant at Mirpur Mathelo
became operational in 1977 and today consumes 63 MMCFD (agaiinst a contracted
maximum of 79 MMCFD) supplied through a 16-inch diameter transmission line.
The Fauji Fertilizer plant at Machi Goth (supplied through a 30-mile 16-inch
line) became operational in 1982, and Lts gas consumption is expected to
approach the contracted maximum of 74 MMCFD by the end of the year. Mari



Annex 2.07
- 53 -                    Page 3 of 3
field's production capacity of 200 MMCFD (21 producing wells from a total of
24 drilled) is marginally greater than its present contracted commitments.



- 54 -
ANMlEX 2.08
GAS CONS=UMER PRICES       Units-PrLs/mCp
General Industries      Commercial    Domestic
June 28, 1969                           3.25/3.05              6.40          6.40
August 11, 1973                         3.73/3.53              6.88          6.40
June -8, 1974                           5.60/5.30             10.00          6.40
July 1, 1974                            5.60/5.30             10.32          6.40
February 1, 1975                        7.46/7.06             13.76          9.60
March 24, 1976                          9.32/8,82             17.20          9.60 5
12.00 6/
June 23, 1978                           9.32/8.82             17,.20        12.00/9.60
June 28, 1979                          10.96/10.48            18,.85        12.00/9.63
7.00 1/
January 1, 1982                        13.002-/               22.00         14.00 21
10.00                                17.50
12.00 -                              21.00 9/
January 9, 1983                        16.34 2/               25.32         no change
13.34
l/ Plus monthly fixed charges for fertiLizer
/ General Industries including cement industries
3/ Plus monthly fixed charges for fertilizer
4/ For power generation
S/ For first MCF
6/ All consumption. over one MCF
7/ Up to 7.1 MCFT/month
8/ Between 7.1 - 10.65 MCFT/month.
9/ Above 10.65 MCFT/month.
Note: Beyond FY 82 the price of naturaL gas will escalate gradually to 66% of
tUe furnace oil equivalent energy price by 1988.
Source: Directorate General of Gas, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.



- 55 -                    ANNEX 2.09
COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF PRICE OF NATURAL GAS AND COMPETITIVE
FUELS FOR INDUSTRIAL USERS
(Rupees/MCF equivalent of Natural gas)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Nktural gas         9.32    9.32    9.32   10.96   10.96    9.48    9.48   11.43
Electricity        57.14   68.57  100.00  125.71  125.71  157.76  173.54  189.31
Furnace Oil        14.22   14.22   16.85   12.53   25.89   28.77   31.07   31.07
HISD               36.18   37.79   37.79   37.84   61.76   81.04   88.03   88.03
Coal               32.37   32.37   43.87   43.92   48.26   52.59   52.59   63.68
COMPARATIVE SUMKARY OF PRICES OF NATURAL GAS AND
COMPETITIVE FUELS FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS
(Rupees/MCF equivalent of Natural Gas)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Natural gas        12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00
Electricity        57.14   62.86   80.00  106.47  106.47  120.82  120.82  136.8
Jood               20.88   26.23   26.33   29.79   37.22         -      46.35   46.35
.harcoal           22.96   28.72   32.74   43.68   44.99         -      56.04   65.37
'erosene           26.81   28.39   28.39   38.43   43.79   73.16   80.28   80.28
.PC                37.49   37.49   37.49   43.20   48.85   51.92   51.92           -
Source: Directorate of Oil Operations, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
Resources
1/ Electricity prices estimated on basis of average prices given the large
number of tariff categories and fixed as well as variable charges.



-56-                      ANNEX 2.10
U±8torical NoVements inR Gas prod=er Prices
Unit: PRs/MCF
Year      Sui          Mari      Sari/Hundi      Dhulian       Meyal
FY75       -             -
FY76      0.51         0.40
FY77      0.59         0.90          -
FY78      0.59         1.00        0.74           0.625        0.625
FY79      0.59         1.00        0.74           0.75         0.75
FY80      0.66         1.0 1/      0.74           0.75         0.75
FY81      0.74         1.05        0.74           0.75         0.75
FY82      3.34-/       1.03/       6.74           2.00-4/      2.004-
1.13-5
1.30-
FY83      5.77-/        - /        0.74           2.00         2.00
2Y34      8.268/        -          0.74           2.00         2.00
1/   Effective 01.01.80
2/   Effective 01.01.82
3/   Effective 07.23.81 for Exxon Chemicals
4/   Effective 11.01.81
5/   Effective 07.23.81 for Pak-Saudi
6/   For Fauji Fertilizer, effective 01.01.82
7/   Estimated, effective 01.01.83
8/   Estimated, effective 01.01.84
9/   Price will vary with inflation/Dollar-Rupee parity according
to Esso's agreement with GOP.
Source: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.



ANNEX 2.11
-57-
Gas Supply - Demand Projection
(MMCFD of Sui Equivalent Gas)
Average Day    Maximum Dayk'   Gas                    Surplus/
Fiscal Year       demand -        Demand         Availability        -(Deficit)
Average   Maximum
day       day
FY 81               720             997              762           42       (235)
82               840            1129              885           45      (244)
83               957            1312              885          (72)      (427)
84              1034            1407              889         (145)     (518)
85              1101            1518              919         (182)      (599)
86              1199            1612             1068         (131)     (544)
87              1249            1720             1098         (151)     (622)
88              1307            1816             1098         (209)     (718)
89              1355            1835             1098         (357)     (791)
1/  Annual average daily demand and daily peak demand as projected by Enar
Petrotech in GDC report.  Excludes additional gas demand for power
generation based on revised generation program of up to 330 MMCFD peak.
2/  Availability assumes timely implementation of gas development plan as
described in para. 2.03 and Annex 2.04.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2.12
GAS DEVFELOPMENT PLAN
TENTATIVE PHASING OF PROJECTS
1982                1983                1984                1985                1986                1987
1       2    3 4        1     2    3   4     1    2     3   4     1    2    3   4              4X   1        2   3   4
MAI FIELD DWLOPMEN                            2        4        23            1        3        12            4
Supply Agreemernt
Project Design
Procurem-ent
Drilling & Gathering S,stem Constr.
MARI-GUDOU LINE
Design
Procurement
Consftuctiona
SUI FIELD (SIJL) DEVELOPMENT
Drilling (Initial Phokse)                                 ESI
SNGPL V (STAGE 1)
Procurement                                            l
Construction                                          i
SNGPLV(STAGEII)                                                                      - _  _    _
WAPDA PROJECTS
GIJDDU I & II Convefson                                                                       an  m.
300 mw Statlon Commissioning                                                                 oii |ii
GUDDU vorCommissioning                                                                                 mm. iii..
150mw Toll End Unit Commissioning                                                                                                          I" II| RasI  i
PIRKOH FIELD DEVELOPMENT
Stage I rilling & Gathering             I -          - _       -t-   *    -   -
Stage ll Drilllng & Gathering                                        -   E    - -        -   m
PIRKO T-SUI LINE
Procurement
Construction                                                             E _
lRBP COMPRESSION
Procuremrent
Erection
KCANDHIKOT FIELD DEVELOPMENT
Procuremnent                                                             E                            
Drilling & Goathrering                                                                   -- - - m
KANDHKOT-GIJDDU LiNE
Procurement
Consftuction                                                                   --                       -    - - -                             
300
250
Incremertal20
Max Day
Prodectrenl             150 
(MMCFD)
'0
1In terms of SML raw Oas (033 Btu/CFt).                                                                                                         WcOIC Bank-24540



Annex 3.01
- 59 -                          Page 1 of 4
Project Description
Purification Plant
1.       The raw gas from Sui main limestone contains sulphur compounds
(mainly hydrogen sulphide) and carbon dioxide plus condensate. Raw gas is
cooled to separate the condensate before entering the purification plant. The
gases are treated in 9 parallel banks using MEA (mono-ethanol-amine) which
absorbs the sulphur compounds and carbon dioxide. The wet gases are then
dehydrated using glygol to produce pipeline quality dry gas suitable for use
in domestic and commercial applications. The MEA and glycol are recovered in
a regeneration section and recycled again for further continuous use. The
purification plant comprises the following banks:
No. of Units          Capacity/Unit           Total Capacity
MMCFD                   MMCFD
5                     50                      250
2                    100                      200
2                    110                      220
670
The capacities shown are the net product gas capacities leaving the
purification plant. The raw gas delivered to the purification plant is
reduced after treatment by approximately 7%, which is known as shrinkage. The
supply pressure to the purification plant is 1150 psig and the pressure
delivered to the transmission system is 1070 psig. SNGPL owns 5 purification
banks (one-50, two-100, two-11O) with a total capacity of 470 MMcfd while SGTC
owns the remaining 4 banks (200 MMCFD). The purification plant has no spare
capacity and maintenance is carried out during the summer season when
consumption becomes sufficiently low to allow it. SGTC has ordered a new 110
MMCFD unit to meet its planned expansion. Under the proposed project SNGPL
will add another unit of 60 MMCFD as a spare to maintain continuous supply of
gas in case of down-time for unscheduled maintenance/overhaul.
Transmission Pipeline
2.       The transmission pipelines have the following design data:
Pressure, in psig
Design            1236
Operating         1070
Material of pipes
API 5LX - 46      (pipes less than 16" diameter)
API 5LX - 52      (pipes 16" diameter or more)
Thickness
The pipes have uniform thicknesses for each size and no corrosion
allowance was considered.



Annex 3.01
Page 2 of 4
-60-
Compression Ratio
The ratio of delivery pressure to suction pressure for compression
varies from 1.22 to 1.45
Cathodic Protection
Impressed DC current using rectifiers is applied to the
transmission pipelines and sacrificial magnesium anodes for the
distribution pipelines inside towns. The testing of coating and
wrapping is carried out by a holiday detector applying 9,000 to
13,000 volts.
The existing high pressure transmission system is designed to transport 415
MMCFD of gas supplied from both Sui field (380 MMCFD) and Meyal/Dhulian (35
MMcfd). The proposed project will expand the system for Sui gas from 380 to
450 MMCFD. Most of the added consumers are located downstream near Lahore,
Islamabad and Peshawar, which will involve revamping the majority of the
transmission system by increasing size of pipelines and addition of
compression capacity. The criteria of decreasing pressure drop using bigger
line sizes and improving compression ratios have resulted in no addition of
compression capacity from Sui to Faisabahad. The proposed expansion will
comprise loop lines (refer to map) as tabulated herewith:
Linesize, inches      From          To      Length, in miles
20             Sui         AC-1           37.50
20            AC-4         AC-6           75.08
18            AC-2         AC-4           35.55
18            AC-6         AC-7           45.06
18            AC-7         AC-8           51.80
16            AC-1         AC-2           20.54
16            AC-8         BC-1           12.35
16            AC-8         CC-1           43.66
16            CC-1         CC-3           51.60
10            BC-1        Lahore           8.89
10            BC-1      Gujranwala        38.00
8            CC-3       Peshawar          13.61
Summary of Loop Lines
Total Length
Diameter in Inches                in Miles
20 -   18        16     10      8
New linepipes              112.58  132.41  58.35  25.19  13.61          342.14
Old linepipes (uplifted)       -        -   57.45  21.70      -          79.15
Ex stock (new)                 -        -   12.35      -      -          12.35
112.58  132.41128.15  46.89  13.61          433.64



Annex 3.01
Page 3 of 4
- 61 -
The construction of the transmission pipelines will be carried out in two
phases. Phase I will complete the work required to handle the 19 MMCFD gas
from SUL which will be made available the first half of 1984. Upon completion
of Phase I, the replaced 10" and 16" pipelines will be uplifted to provide
part of the materials required for the construction of Phase II scheduled to
be completed mid-1985.
Telecommunication and Telemetry
3.       The existing telecommunication systems connecting Sui field with
Multan and Multan with Faisalabad were installed in 1956 and 1965
respectively. Both systems are old and have insufficient channel capacity for
present day operating requirements. The radio equipment is operated with
valves (electron tubes) which are no longer manufactured and their original
supplier is non-existent. The system cannot be maintained effectively and the
proposed project finances the replacement of the VHF equipment by micro-wave
multi-channel equipment for Sui-Multan-Faisalabad. Additional repeater
stations will be installed at compressor stations AC-2 and AC-4 to avoid
interference caused by long path-length. The Faisalabad-Gali Jagir and
Faisalabad-Shahadara will be extended to Wah and Gujarat using micro-wave
multi-channel equipment. Other extensions to Peshawar-Doudkhel and Haripur
will be carried out with single channel VHF equipment because of the lower
traffic requirements.
Technical Assistance and Training
(a) Management Information Center
4.       SNGPL is a gas utility company with diversified responsibilities.
With the completion of the proposed project about 400,000 consumers will be
monitored and serviced. Data processing is carried out manually, which is
time consuming, inefficient, and has limitations that can be overcome by
introducing a computerized management information system. The proposed system
is expected to start in FY 84 and will take 12 months to complete. It will
cost approximately US$450,000 with a consultancy component of US$150,000 to
cover 10 man-months including travel and subsistence.
(b) Feasibility Study to Increase Gas Supply
5.       Gas Development Corporation (GDC-US consultants) completed in
February 1982 the feasibility study to increase gas supply in Pakistan. The
study was financed through a project preparation facility amounting to
US$700,000 and will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
(c) Peak Load Shaving Study
6.       SNGPL distribution network capacity has a potential demand exceeding
gas supply. The average gas consumption over the year is within distribution
capacity, however, seasonal peak requirements cannot be met by both supply
sources and transmission capacity. Peak load shaving is exercised by
curtailing gas to power and industrial consumers. Underground gas storage and
liquified natural gas (LNG) storage installations can maintain the supply of
gas for use during peak winter loads. Consulting services amounting to



Annex 3.01
- 62 -                            Page 4 of 4
US$350,000 will be required to study the possibility of installing such
facilities. The work will take 8 to 10 months and requires 30 man-months.
(d) Training
7.       The proposed project includes provision for overseaLs training to
upgrade management and operational capabilities. About 35 persons will attend
theoretical and practical training courses in technical institutions and
operating companies. Duration of these courses vary between three months and
one year and concentrate on gas technology in the fields of gas transmission
and distribution systems. The proposed training component includes financing
visiting specialists conducting courses of broader scope for technical and
managerial personnel in Pakistan.



ANNEX 3.01
63 -                              Appendix 1
PAKISTAN - SNGPL V
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
1982               1983                4984               1985                4986
1   2   34         4   2   3   4 _         2   3   4   1    2   3   4          1  2   3   4
TRANSMISSION PIPELINES
PHASE I
Design & Engineering                   I  
Procurerment             kI                   k       - *    am
Construction                                 _        -    -
PHASE II
Design & Engineering                   oi  I ldlll
Procuremnent                                _ *-                                    m _  _ | - - s
Construction-                                                        - --
PURIFICATION PLANT
Design & Engineering                   s          1111111
Procurerment                                                    u M  M m       s    I
Construction
COMPRESSION
Design & Engineering                    *       '     _
Procurement                                               n   -     -
Construction
DISTRIBUTION
Procurement                               I*-                                      - M  n t  , _  _
Construction                                                  - I -   -   -    --
Worid Bank-24502



- 64 -                              ANNEX 3.02
Pakistan - SNGPL Project V
Estimated Project Cost
PR's (million)                    U.S.$ (million)
Local   Foreign  Total             Local   Foreign  Total
1.  Purification Plant                      83        111       194           6.7       8.8        15.5
2.   Transmission Pipelines
20" Looplines (112.58 miles)    265          177        442          21.1     14.2        35.3
18"            (132.41   "  )    250         151        401          20.0     12.1        32.1
16"     "      (128.15   "  )    216          71        287          17.3      5.7        23.0
10"     "        4 46.89   "  )    68         14         82           5.4      1.1         6.5
8"            (13.61        )     16          4         20           1.3      0.3         1.6
815        417      1232          65.2      33.3        98.5
3.   Compressor Facilities
4 - 1100 BHP units                 33         58        91           2.6       4.6         7.2
Restaging 9 units                   1          2          3           0.1      0.2         0.3
34        60         94           2.7       4.8         7.5
4.   Distribution System
Additions 1983-84 to
1985-1986                       318         80        398         25.4       6.4        31.8
5.   Telecommunication and
Telemetry
- Replacement with MW              31         31         62           2.5      2.5         5.0
- 5 - additional VHF               34         26         60           2.7      2.1          4.8
65        57        122           5.2       4.6         9.8
6.   Construction Equipment                 53         35        88            4.2      2.8         7.0
7.   Technical Assistance and
Studies
-  PPF                              1       11.5       12.5           0.1      0.9         1.0
-  M.I.C.                           2          3          5           0.2      0.2         0.4
-  Peak load shaving              1.5          3        4.5           0.1      0.3         0.4
-  Training                       1.5        3.5          5           0.1      0.3         0.4
6        21         27           0.5       1.7         2.2
Base Cost                     1373        781      2154         109.9      62.4       172.3
8.   Physical Contingencies                137         78       215          11.0       6.2        17.2
9.   Price Contingencies                    69        21         90           5.4       1.8         7.2
Total Project Cost               1579        880       2459         126.3     70.4       196.7
10.  Front End Fee                           -          1         1          -          0.1         0.1
Total Project Financing             1579        881       2460         126.3      70.5      196.8



PAKISTAN - SNGPL Project V
Phasing of Expenditure
(US$ Million)
1983/84                 1984/85                 1985/86                    Total
Foreign     Local       Foreign    Local        Foreign      Local       Foreign       Local      Total
1.  Purification Plant                        2.88       -            6.4         6.48       0.88         1.12        10.16           7.6       17.76
2.  Transmission Pipelines                  29.2         49.84        8.8        22.56       -            2.54        38.0           74.94    112.94
3.  Compression Facilities                    3.28        2.56        0.4         0.56       1.46         -            5.14           3.12       8.26
4.  Distribution System                       3.36       10.4         2.64       14.08       1.28         4.8          7.28          29.28      36.56
5.  Telecommunication and Telemetry           2.64        0.64        2.56        4.72       -            0.64         5.2            6.0       11.20
6.  Construction  Equipment                   1.28         1.92       1.92        2.88       -            -            3.2            4.8        8.0
7.  Technical Assistance and Training         0.4         0.16        0.64        0.24       0.48         0.16         1.52           0.56       2.08
Total     43.04        65.52       23.36       51.52       4.1          9.26        70.5          126.3      196.8
as
1/  Includes Contingencies
0.



PAKISTAN - SNGPL PROJECT V
Phasing of Expenditures 1/
(PR's million)
1983/84                 1984/85                1985/86                     Total
Foreign      Local      Foreign    Local        Foreign      Local        Foreign       Local      Total
1.  Purification Plant                             36          -            80       81             11         14           127          95        222
2.  Transmission Pipelines                        365        623           110      282              -         32           475         937       1412
3.  Compression Facilities                         41         32             5         7            18          -            64          39        103
4.  Distribution System                            42        130            33      176             16         60            91         366        457
5.  Telecommunication and Telemetry                33          8            32       59              -          8            65          75        140
6.  Construction Equipment                         16         24            24       36              -          -            40          60        100
7.  Technical Assistance and Training               5          2             8        3              6          2            19           7         26
Total         538        819           292       644            51        116           881        1579       2460
1/  Includes Contingencies
C'
0.
II, 0



- 67 -                      ANNEX 3.03
Appendix
PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Disbursement of Bank Loan
IBRD                                                         US$ Millions
Fiscal Year                                            Quarter         Cumulative
Quarter Ending:
1983/1984
September30, 1983                                5.4                5.4
December 31, 1983                                6.2               11.6
March 31, 1984                                   5.0               16.6
June 30, 1984                                    5.1               21.7
21.7
198 4/1985
September 30, 1984                               5.0               26.7
December 31, 1984                                 4.5              31.2
March 31, 1985                                    4.2              35.4
June 30, 1985                                    3.5               38.9
17.2
1985/1986
September 30, 1985                               2.0               40.9
December 31, 1985                                 1.0              41.9
March 31, 1986                                   0.5               42.4
June 30, 1986                                    0.6               43.0
4.1
TOTAL                    43.0



- 68 -ANEX 3.04
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPEl..INE PROJECT V
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(IN MIlL:CON RUF:PEES)
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1.985/86  19B6/8?  1987/88
PROJECT 5                           144    1,204        936       .167        -
OTHER INVESTMENT:
PROJECT 4                            16         *
PROJECT S ADVANCED                   23                   -         -         -
LPG                                  42         -         -         -         -         -
CONSTRUCTION s COMPRESSION
EQUIPMENT                            32                   -         -                   -
PURCHASE OF PURIFICATION
BANKS FROM SCTC                      13         -         -         _         .         _
OFFICE BUILDING                       3        27        30                   -         -
D.ISTRIBUTION DEVELOPMENT           166         -         -         -       184      202
NORMAL CAPITAL. EXPENDITURE          36        37        41.       45        50        55
SUBTOTAL:  OTHER INVESTMENT         331        64        71        45       234       257
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM            475    1,268    1,007         212       234       257
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1.
03/10/83



-69-                             ANNEX 4.01
Pakistan
Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Project V
List of Shareholders
Name of Shareholders                            Total Shares Held       Percentage
Indus Gas Company Limited                               236,000             0.62
Pakistan Industrial Credit &
Investment Corporation                                302,653             0.79
Pakistan Insurance Corporation                          850,300             2.22
State Life Insurance Corporation
of Pakistan                                         1,981,665             5.17
Investment Corporation of Pakistan                    2,320,891             6.06
National Bank of Pakistan,
Trustee Department                                  2,515,491             6.57
The Burmah Oil Public Limited Co.                     2,580,500             3.12
Pakistan Industrial Development
Corporation                                         3,730,806             9.74
The President Islamic Republic
of Pakistan                                       22,587,361             58.97
Residual (General Public - includes
approximately 2531 Shareholders)                    1,194,333             6.74
38,300,000           100.00



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE FIFrH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Organizatlon Chart
M.D.'s OFFCE
Officers    3
tkrlorslse   7
Totol =   10
ORGMANIITN CRI Of SNGPL
SA to M.D.
Total =  6~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~7oa                     32
SLiMMARIY
Ofl2ceOO    413
G.  (RAJS                                                                                       M  OEAlN
Li01nis=  _3                                                                                  U10on,=    -3
Total =    S                                                                                   Total!     6
I          I                  I                                   ~~~ ~~I                        I     I
RNANCE         ADMINISTRATkON       PUiRCHASE          CORPORATE                            DISITRIBLTON       TRANSMISSiON           SALES              TELECOM.         CML CONST.
& STORES          PLANNING
H.O + AREAS        HO + ARA        |       +JE             O |   AREAS                         HO.  ARA            HO. + AREAS        HO + AREAS         H  ± AREAS
Offices    52      Ofces    21        Offcers   28        Officers   3                         Oficrs     89      Otbiers    78       Ottcers    25      OffIces    20O
LUnionsed 371      oLiSed 33   ilnonised 183              Unloolsed  3                         Lnbneo 1086        Unlnlsed 706        Unbolted  123      Uhbnlsed  40
Totl                Td=   41         Total     211        Total=    6                          Totol=   1175      Total=    784       Total=    148      Total=    60
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7     ]    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0cems  3
AUID!T            sl. ES           PERSOU'VNEL          PRT                                                    ______
Total=    30
| H.O.+AREAS  || H.O.+AREAS  |  | H O +AREA3 1[ HO. + RELDS
| OfcrsS   5       O f mcers    3    O f Oicers    5 1  | C*con     71
|kUnons3ed   |  | Llnlse  10          nnlonsed  51      Uionisoed  367
| Totol =  35 |    1| Total1=    13 |  | Total =  56 |  | totalI=    438
AREAS
Hood Otice
Pessowar  (Including Nowshtro, Marcon. Charsadda, Takht Bhal).
RawcIlpindo  (Incld Ing Islamobod. Attork. Chakwal, Tardla. Hassan-Abd.1, Wah, HarOur).
GujrornAila (lncudilng Salkot, Wazlrabod, Guirat. Doska. C-hakhor).
Lahore     (Includiing Shelkhupuro. Kaol Shah Kaku).
Mtitan     (Includlog Bahwalipur. Sadlqobad, Rahim Yar Khan. Konewal).
Falsababd  (including Sargodha, Toboa Tk Sngh. Chinlot. Gojro. Jaranwao. Rabwah).                                                                                          World Bonk-24600



- 71 -
ANNEX 5.01
PAKISTAN                                                 Page 1 of 3
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V
BALANCE SHEETS
(IN MILLION RUPEESI
ACTUAL                               FORECAST
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983184  1984/85  1?85.86  1986/87  1987/88
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                      220      309       158       49       92        90      172      240       80
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                       163      163       233      232      249       258      277      286      290
INVENTORY                                 171      153      168       203      213      223       235      248      258
OTHER ASSETS                               46       92       197       70       40        40       40       40       40
---- ------   ------  - ----   ------ ---- ----- ----- ----
SUBTOTAL                                  600      717       756      554      594       611      724      814      668
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS ASSETS                            2,246    2Y243    2,670    3,621    4,746    6,178    6,905    7,476    8,104
LESS:ACCUM.DEPRECIATION                   675      782       913    1,229    1,521    1,910    2,346    2,821    3,344
-----   -----   ------  ------  ------   ------  --- ------ ----
NET FIXED ASSETS                        1,571    1,461    19757    2,392    3,225    4,268    4,559    4,655    4,760
WORK IN PROGRESS                          112      178       154      188      505       322      100      100       100
OTHER ASSETS                               26       21        39       49       56        63       69       75       79
TOTAL ASSETS                            2.309    2,377    2,706    3,183    4,380    5,264    5,452    5.644    5,607
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                          195      295       403      215      222       228      237      244      251
ACCRUED DIVIDENDS                          56       49        50       48       48       4a8       48       48       48
CURRENT PORTION OF LONG TERM DEBT          73       72       82       147      111      365       237      295      173
-- ----   ----   ---                -- -   ---    --           - -   ------
SUBTOTAL                                  324      416      535       410      381      641       522      587      472
OTHER LIABILITIES                          87      101        93      116      129       141      153      165      177
PROVISION FOR DEFER.TAX                   347      387      456       473      536      602       700      634      527
LONG TERM DEBT                          1,138      956    1,059    1,222    2,088    2,569    2,239    2,006    1,525
LESS:CURRENT PORTION LTD                   73       72        82      147      111      365       237      295      173
SUBTOTAL                                1,065      884      977    1,075    1,977    2,204    2.002  . 1,711    1.352
CONTRIBUTION IN AID OF CONSTRUCTION        18       65       121      187      252       317      382      447      512
REVALUATION RESERVE                         -        -         -      402      576      818    1,111    1,448    1.819
EQUITY
CAPITAL                                   383      383      383       383      383      383       383      383      383
RETAINED EARNINGS                          85      141       141      137      146       158      199      269      365
  _    _  _  _      _      _                                            -------
SUBTOTAL                                  468      524      524       520      529      541       582      652      748
TOTAL LIAEBLIIILS AND EQUITY            2,309    2,377    2,706    3,1B3    4,380    59264    5,452    5,644    5,607
CURRENT RATIO                             1.9      1.7       1.4      1.4      1.6      1.0       1.4      1.4      1.4
DEBT'DEBT PLUS EQUITY                    0.69     0.63      0.65     0.54     0.64     0.62      0.54     0.45     0.34
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1
05/18/83



-  72 -                              ANnx 5.01
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN SUI GAS P:IPELINE PROJECT V                              Page 2 of 3
INCOHE STATENENTS
(IN MILLION RuPEES)
ACTUAL                               FORECAST
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
OPERATING REVENUES
GAS SALES                                    1,113  1,1.81  1,439  1,693  1,820  1,882  2,021  21091  2,117
LESS:DEVELOPMENT SURCHARGE                     226    221    253    284    311    321    340    352    358
NET GAS SALES                                887    960  1,186  1,409  1,509  1,561  1,681  1,739  1,759
OTHER REVENUES                                  36     17      20     21      24     26      28     31      33
TARIFF INCREASE                                  -      -       -     64    251    477    618    715    829
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                     923    977  1.206  1,494  1,784  2,064  2,327  2,485  2,621
OPERATING EXPENSES
GAS PURCHASES                                  354    399    605    792    833    859    928    958    961
PURIFICATION                                    38     38      46     60      55     60      75     80      86
TRANSMISSION, COMPRESSION I DISTRIBUTION    142    173    192    262    315    368    428    492    561
OTHERS                                          14     26      to     10       8     13      19     20      19
DEPRECIATION                                   116    102    128    204    292    389    436    475    523
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                    664    738    981  1,328  1,503  :1,689  1,886  2,025  2,150
OPERATING INCOME                               259    239    225    166    281    375    441    460    471
OTHER INCOME                                   -    126     44      36      15     16     24      32      32
TOTAL INCOME                                   259    365    269    202    296    391    465    49?    503
LESS:  INTEREST                              109     96      98    109    176    265    278    243    200
INCOME BEFORE TAX                              150    269    171      93    120    126    187    249    303
CURRENT TAX                                    -     96     25      32       -      -      -    197    266
DEFERRED TAX                                  79     40     69      17      63     66      98    (66)  (107)
NET PROFIT                                      71    133      77     44      57     60     89    118    144
OPERATING RATIOS(%)                             0.72   0.76  0O81   0.89   0.84   0,82   0.81   0.81   0.82
RATE OF RETURN ON FIXED ASSETS(%)               0.16   0.16   0.14   0.08   0.10   0.10   0,10   0.10   0.10
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1
05/18/83



- 73                                                SANEX 5.01
PAKISTAN                                                Page 3 of 3
SUI NORTHERN GAS PROJECT V
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
IN MILLION RUPEES)
ACTUAL                               FORECAST
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1?82/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
FUNDS PROVIDED FROM OPERATIONS
OPERATING INCOME                     259       239      225       166      281       375      441      460       471
DEPRECIATION                          116      102      128       208      292       38?      436       475      523
SUBTOTAL                             375       341      353       374      573       764      877       935      994
DEDUCTIONS
DIVIDENDS                             58        77       77        48       48        48       48        48       48
IDEBT SERVICE:PRINCIPAL              120        82       77        90      147      1l1       382       233      481
INTEREST                109       96       98       109      176       265      278       243      200
INCOME TAX                                      96       25        32                                   197      266
ADVANCES TO STAF                       9        (5)      18        10        7         7        6         6        4
WORKING CAPITAL INCREASE              (30)     (65)      81        97      (10)       13       22        15        7
SUBTOTAL                             266       281      376       386      368       444      736       742    1,006
ADDITIONS
OTHER INCOME                           -       126       44        36       15        16       24       32        32
SECURITY DEPOSITS                      17       14        (8)      23       13        12       12        12       12
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT       126       200       13        47      233       348      177      237        32
INVESTMENT PROGRAk                   128       200      277       475    1,268    1,007       212      234       257
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                 2         -      264       428    1,035      659        35        (3)     225
FINANCED BYt
EQUITY
BORROWING                             55        42       57       253    1,013       592       52        -         -
CONTRIBUTION IN AID                    18       47       56        66       65        65       65        65       65
SUBTOTAL                            73        89      113       319    1,078       657      117       65        65
INCREASE (DECREASE ) IN CASH          71        89     (151)    (109)       43        (2)      82       68      (160)
CUMULATIVE CASH                      220       309      158        49       92        9O      172      240        80
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                1.3       1.9      1.7       1.8      1.6       1.9      1.2       1.8      1.3
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION (X)        0.77      0.84     0.03     0,05    020       0.57      0.79     0.97      0,12
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION I
DATE:05/18/83



ANNEX 5.02
74                              ~Pagel of2
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTELERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V
CURRENT GAS TARIFFS
(Effective from January 1983)
hm3 = hundred cubic meters
Prescribed           Gas Development
Sales Pbrice              Price                 Surcharge
1. GENERAL INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS
Industrial Consumers including those
engaged in the processing of
industrial raw material into value-
added finished products irrespective
of the volume of gas consumed               Rs  58.00 per hm3      Rs  30.50 per hm3       Rs  27.50 per hm3
2. CEMENT FACTORIES
Flat rate                                   Rs  58.00 per hm3      Rs  30.54 per hm3       Rs  27.46 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of RS 75/- per month)
3. ELECTRICAL UTILITIES
(REPCO AND MESCO)
Flat Rate                                   Rs  54.45 per hm3      Rs  29.39 per hm3       Rs  25.06 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of RD 75/- per month)
4. WAPDA NATURAL GAS POWER STATION
PIRANGHAIB MULTAN (Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge Per Month                      Rs  3,750,000          Rs  600,000             Rs  3,500,000
Commodity Charge                            Rs  47.42 per hm3      Rs  23.09 per hm3       Rs  24.33 per hm3
5. WAPDA GUDDU THERMAL POWER STATION
GAS TURBINE
Flat Rate                                   Rs  54.45 per hm3      Rs  29.39 per hm3       Rs  25.06 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 75/- per month)
6. WAPDA STEAM POWER STATION
FAISALABAD (Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge Per Month                      Rn  2,812,500          Rs  450,000             Rs  2,362,500
Commodity Chharge                           Rs  47.07 per hm3      Rs  23.09 per hm3       Rs  23.98 per bm3
7. WAPDA - 200MW GAS TURBINE POWER
STATION FAISALABAD (Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge Per Month                      Rs  2,437,500          Rs  390,000             Rs  2,047,500
Commodity Charge                           'Rs  47.07 per hm3      Rs  23.09 per hm3       Rs  23.98 per hm3
8. WAPDA -- GAS TURBINE POWER STATION
SHAHDARA
Flat Rate                                   Rs  54.45 per hm3      Rs  29.39 per hm3       Rs  25.06 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 75/- per month)
9.  THERMAL PLANT, ABDULLAHPUR, FAISALABAD
Flat Rate                                   Rs  54.45 per hm3      Rs  29.39 per hm3       Rs  25.06 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 75/- per month)
10. PAK-ARAB FERTILIZER LIMITED - MULTAN
(Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge per Month                      Rs  1,435,000          Rs  574,000             Rs  861,000
Commodity Charge                            Rs  47.35 per hm3      Rs  22.39 per hm3       Rs  24.96 per hm3



75                        ~~~~~~~~AN~NEX 5.02
Page 2 of 2
11. DAWOOD HERCULES CHEMICALS LIMITED
(Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge per Month                     Rs  3,205,712           Rs  512,914            Rs  2,692,798
Commodity Charge                           Rs  47.35 per hm3       Rs  22.69 per hm       Rs  24.66 per hm
12. PAX-AMERICAN FERTILIZER CO. LTD.
(Two-Part Tariff)
Fixed Charge per Month
For Max-day Demand of
1,410 hm                           Rs    612,500          Rs   98,000             Rs  514,500
For Max-day Demand of
1,410 to 1,690 hm3                 Ra    731,250          Rs  117,000             Rs  614,250
For Max-day Demand of
1,690 to 1,970 hm3                 Rs    856,250          Rs  137,000             Rs  719,250
For Max-day Demand of
1,970 to 2,250 hm3                 Rs    975,000          Rs  156,000             Rs  819,000
Commodity Charge                           Rs  47.35 per hm3       Rs  23.05 per hm3      Rs  24.30 per hm3
13. COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS
Commercial consumers including all
establishments registered as commer-
cial units with local authorities or
dealing in consumer items for direct
commercial sale like hotels, cafes,
bakeries, milk shops, tea stalls,
canteens, barber shops, laundries,
tandoors, places of entertainment --
like cinemas, clubs and theatres,
all private offices, clinics,
maternity homes.
Flat rate                                  Rs  89.94 per hm3       Rs  42.74 per hm3      Rs  47.20 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 30/- per month)
14. DOMESTIC CONSUMERS
a. Domestic consumers including
residential colonies, mosques,
churches, temples, madrassas,
other religious places and
hotels attached thereto, govern-
ment and semi-government offices,
hospitals, government guest
houses, Armed Forces messes/
langars, universities, colleges,
schools, orphanages and other
charitable institutions.
Feirst   12  g?9 eremontr ma 6. 12                        Ps          er hm       R   2s      er gm
ext      nm  per mont                  .   per nm       RB          er          R.m Rs     per t
All over 3                                                Rm per month  Ba  74.55 per hm  Es  37.29 per hm3  Rs  37.26 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 14/- per month)
b. For hostels and residential
colonies to which gas is supplied
through bulk meters.
Flat Rate                              Rs  49.70 per hm3       Rs  37.29 per hm3      Rs  12.41 per hm3
(Subject to a minimum charge of Rs 14/- per month)
NOTE:    Difference of Sales Price and Prescribed Price is payable to Federal Government under clause (1) of Section 3 of
Natural Gas (Dev: Surcharge Ordinance, 1967 (1 of 1967) and vide Government Notification No. NG-10(62)/74 dated 8
June, 1974.



Annex 5.03
Page 1 of 3
- 76 -
Pakistan
Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Project
Assumptions Underlying the Financial Projections
I. Background
1.01     The Financial Projections are based on (i) SNGPL's Feasibility Study
Project V/Revised) submitted to GOP in October 1982; (ii) SNGPL's capital
budget and revenue budget for FY83; arLd (iii) SNGPL's Investment Program for
FY83-88. Appropriate contingencies have been incorporated. The forecast for
FY87 and FY88 is tentative and is essentially based on the continuation of
past trends.
II.      Income Statement
2.01     Operating revenues are calculated on the basis of the tariffs
approved by Government effective January '82, increased in order to achieve
10% rate of return on fully revalued fixed assets. The tariff increases
required are as follows:
Tariff Increase      Tariff Increase
FY            (x)                 (%)
83           4                      4
84          10                     14
85          11                     25
86           6                     31
87           3                     34
88           5                     39
The tariffs are listed in Annex 5.02.  The Schedule Breakdown Operating
Revenue is enclosed in Appendix I to Annex 5.03.
2.02     Gas development surcharge is payable to GOP and is calculated by
SNGPL as a difference between the Sales Price and the Prescribed Price. The
detailed schedule of Gas Development Surcharge is enclosed in Appendix 2 to
Annex 5.03.
2.03     Other revenues include the rental and service charges for various
equipment and connection fees. The connection fees for residential customers
are: RP1200 per residential connection; and RP2000 per commercial
connection. Industrial consumers are charged on the basis of actual cost.
2.04     Gas Purchases
The purchase price of gas assumed is based on the projections of
SNGPL as detailed in this Annex. It iis assumed that the govesrnment will allow
SNGPL to pass any subsequent gas price increases to consumers through tariff
inzreases.
2.05     Purification.  Through the 1972 agreement with SGTC, SNGPL was
leasing the purification banks no. 5, 15 and 7 at SGTC plant and purchased
these facilities at book value on January 1, 1983. The banks will be operated



Annex 5.03
77                     Page 2 of 3
by SGTC during the 5 years and SNGPL will have an option to take over the
operations thereafter. The charges payable to SGTC are the actual amounts of
depreciation, operating cost and interest on loans, and SGTC's own
investment. The joint costs are proportionately shared (of the total capacity
of 475 MMCFD, 255 MMCFD has been allocated to SNGPL). The purification
charges for banks 5,6 and 7 are projected on the basis of the agreement with
SGTC and actual operating charges for the new banks installed by SNGPL. The
cost of boiler fuel is exluded and cost allocated to internal consumption.
2.06     Transmission, compression and distribution.  The operating expenses
are based on SNGPL experience, budgeted figures for 1983 and escalated at 10%
per year.  These costs also include internal consumption.
2.07     Other Expenses.  Provision for statutory contribution to the workers
participation fund has been made at the effective rate of 6% of profit before
tax. The provisions for Zakat has been calculated at 2.5% of the credit
balances (other than company current account) in the banks.
2.08     Depreciation.  Depreciation rates used are rates prescribed by the
GOP with the exception of transmission pipelines.  The detailed Depreciation
schedule is in Appendix 4 and the rate of depreciation is at Appendix 5.  The
depreciation is calculated for accounting purposes on the straight line method
and for tax purposes on the reducing balance method. The depreciation rate on
transmission lines and other assets reflect the expected termination of
economic life in the year 2000 with an assumed 10% residual value. In
addition to normal tax depreciation, tax authorities allow initial accelerated
depreciation of 25% during the first year of assets commissioning.
2.09     Other income includes interest on advances, short-term investment and
interest on bank deposits, surcharge and interest on receivables in arrears,
profit on insurance claims and profit on disposal of fixed assets.
2.10     The interest calculation is included in the Debt schedule at Appendix
6. The interest is calculated on the average outstanding balance of the
loans.
III. Balance Sheet
3.01     Gross Assets build up and the corresponding depreciation schedule
appears at Appendix 4. The gross fixed assets were revalued as follows:
(i)    the assets based on domestic goods and labor were revalued
using domestic goods and services manufacturers domestic index
for Pakistan;
(ii)   the assets based on imported goods and services were revalued
using imported goods unit value index of manufacturers exports
from developed to developing countries;
(iii) the future index used for projections is as follows: 1983
(8%), 1984, (7.5%), 1985 (7.0%), 1986-90 (6%)
3.02     Accounts receivable are calculated on the basis of 50 days of sales,
which is in line with past performance.



Annex 5.03
-78-                    Page 3 of 3
3.03     The Debt Schedule appears in Appendix 6.  The main assumptions are as
follows:
(i)    IBRD loan in the amount of US$43.0 million, 17 years including
a 3-year grace period. The loan period is related to the
expiration date of SNGPL's gas supply contract in the year
2000; the IBRD loans have to be repaid before that date. The
interest rate will be variable, adjusted semi-annually and
assumed at 12.5% p.a.;
(ii)   export credit medium-term loan in the amount of US$19.3
million, for 8 years, including a 3-year grace period. The
loan will represent 70% of the contract value for pipe and
will be provided by the commercial bank or export credit
lending institution in the country of the supplier. The loan
will be guaranteed by GOP and covered by insurance policy
provided by Export Credit Insurance Agency in the country of
the supplier. The interest rate will be variable based on
Libor (the rate is assumed at 12.5% per annum);
(iii)  additional loan in the amount of US$8.2 million (30% of value.
of contract for pipe) provided for 8 years including a 3-year
grace period. We assume that the loan will be provided by the
commercial bank of the supplier, guaranteed by GOP and will
bear variable interest based on Libor (the interest rate is
assumed at 12.5% per ananum);
(iv)   domestic loans will be obtained from local banks.  The period
of the loan is assumed to be, in principle, 8 years, but there
will be no prepayment penalty.  The interest is assumed at the
Bank rate plus 2-1/2 (12.5%).
3.04     Income tax is calculated at 52.5%.
3.05     Provision for deferred taxation is calculated in Appendix 7.
3.06     Contributions in Aid are budgeted for 1983 and assumed constant for
the period of projections. Contribution in aid is a contribution of consumers
towards certain capital costs (e.g., the cost of their connection).
3.07     Paid-in capital is assumed to remain constant.
3.08     The dividend would be paid to GOP at the rate of 12.5% of paid-in
capital and will remain constant during the forecast.



-79 -
P A KIST AN                        ANNEX 5.03
NORTHERN SIJI GAS PIPE.INE PROJECT V            Appendix 1
BREAKDOWN OF OPFRATIT.N6 RFVFNtIE              rage I of 2
1983    1.984   J985   1986   1987   1988
QUANTITIES (MIL LION M3)
________________ ___
FOWER
WAPDA-MULTAN                         31      31      31.    216     209       64
WAPDA-FAISAL.ABAD                   411    4t2    411    411        411      412
WAPEDA-SHAHEDARA                      -       -       -        -       -       -
MESCO                                38      38      38      38       38      38
REPCO                                19      19      19       19      19      19
SUBTOTAL                         499     500      499    684      677     533
FERTILIZER
PAK-ARABi, MULTAN                   411    41.2    411.    411      411    412
DIAWOOD-HERCULES                    391    392      391     391     391.    392
FAK-AMERICAN                         76      76      76      76       76      76
HARIPlUR FERTILIZER                  79      80      79      79       79      80
SUBTOTAL                         957      960    957    957       957    960
CEMENT                                354     355    354    354    354    355
OTHERS
GENERAL INDUSTRIES               1,1.27  1,239  1,316  1401  19,486  1,577
COMMERCIAL                          166     183     194    207      220      233
DOMESTIC                            608     668     710     755    C0?    850
SUBTOTAL                       tY901   2,090  2,220  2Y363  2,508  2,660
TOTAL. GAS (MILLION M3)             3,711  3,905  4,030  4,358  4,496  4,908
VARIABLE PRICE (RS/THOUSAND M3)
POWER
WAPDA-MULTAN                        356    356      356     356     35t6    356
WAPDA-FAISALABAllD                  352    352      352     352     351    352
WAPD'A-SHAHDARA                       -       -       -        -       -       -
MESCO                               426     426    426    426    426    426
REPCO                               426    426      426    426    426    426
F'ERTILIZER
PAK-ARAB, MULTAN                    355     355    355      355    355       355
DAWOOrD-HERCUI ES                           355    359       35    355  355
PAK-AMERICAN                        355     355     355     35.5    355      355
HARIPUR FERTI IZER                 462    462    462       462    46?    462
CEMENT                                462     462     462    462    462        462
OTHERS
GENERAL INDUSTRIES                  462    462    462       462     462      462
COMMERCIAL                          781     781     781     781     78t    781
DOMESTIC                            497     497     497     497     497      497
FIXED REVENUE (MILLION RUPEES)
POWER
WAPDA--MULTAN                        18      18      18      18       18      18
WAPDA-FAISAl.ABAD                    25      25      25      25       25      25



ANNEX 5.03
- 80 -                        -       Appendix 1
WAPDA-SHAHDARA                       r-age -                  -
SUBTOTAL                          43      43      43       43      43      43
FERTILIZER
PAK-ARAB, MULTAN                     17      17      1.7     17      17      17
DAWOOD-HERCULES                      15      15      15      15      15      15
PAK-AMERICAN                          5       5       5       5       5       5
HARIPUR FERTILIZER                    -       -       -       -       -       -
SUBTOTAL                          37      37      37       37      37      37
LESS:  LOSS OF FIXED CHARGF          18       -       -       -       -       -
LESS:  PENALTY                       12       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL FIXED REVENUE COMPONENT          50      80      80      80      80      80
VARIABLE REVENUE (MILELLION RUPEFES)
POWER
WAPDA-MULTAN                         11      11      11      77      74      23
WAPDA-FAISAIABADl                   145     145     145    145      145     145
WAPDA-SHAHDARA                        -       -       -       -       -       -
MESCO                                16      16      16      16      16      16
PEPCO                                 8       8       8       8       8       8
SUBTOTAL                         180     180     180     246    243       192
FERTILIZER
PAK-ARAB, MULTAN                   146    146       146     146     146     146
DAWOOD-HERCiJIES                    139     139     139     139     139     139
PAK-AMERICAN                         27      27      27      27      27      27
HARIPUR                              36      37      36      36      36      37
SUBTOTAL                         348     349    348      348      348    349
CEMENT                                163     164    1.63    163      163    1.64
OTHERS
GENERAL INDUSTRIES                 520     57?    607       647    686      728
COMMERCIAL                          130     143     151     t6?    1.72    182
DOMESTIC                           302     33?    353    375    399         422
SUBTOTAL                         952  1,047  1,111   1,184  1,257  1,332
TOTAL VARIABLE REVFNUES            1,643  1,740  J,802  1,941  2,011.  ?,037
REVENUE GRAND TOTAL                  1,693  1,820  1,882  2,021  2,091  2,117
E:NERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PORJECTS DIVISION 1
03/08/83



- 81 -                        ANNEX 5.03
FAKI STAN                       Appendix 2
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V
GAS DEVEL.OPMENT SUJRCHARGF SCHEDlULE
IN MIL.LION RUPEES )
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
GAS DEVELOPMENT SURCHARGE
VARIABLE COMPONENT
POWER
WAPDA-MULTAN                          1      1      1     9      9      3
WAPDA-FAISALABAD                     16    16    16    16    16    16
MESCO                                 2      2      2     2      2      2
REPCO                                 I      1      I     1      1      1
SUBTOTAL                           20    20    20    28    28    22
FERTILIZER
PAK-ARAB                             20    20    20    20    20    20
DAWOOD HERCUll-ES                    is   1te    18    18    18    18
PAK-AMEKICAN                          3      3      3     3      3      3
HARIPUR                               6      6      6     6      6      6
SUBTOTAL                           47    47    47    47    47    47
CEMENT                                 26    26    26    26    26    26
OTHERS
GENERAL INDUJSTRIES                  84    92    97   104   110   117
COMMERCIAL                           45    50    53    56    60    63
DOMESTIC                             25    28    30    31    33    35
SUBTOTAL                          154   170   180   191   203   215
TOTAL VARIABLE COMPONENT              247   263   273   292   304   310
GAS DEVELOPMENT SURCHARGE
FIXED COMPONENT
POWER
WAPDA-MULTAN                         11    11    11    11 t.1
WAPDA-FAISALABAD                     t5    19   1t5    15    15    15
MESCO
REPCO
SUBTOTAL                           26    26    26    26    26    26
FERTILIZER
PAK-ARAB                             10    10    10    10    10    10
DAWOOD HERCUJLES                      9      9      9     9      9      9
PAK-AMERICAN                          3      3     3      3      3      3
HARI FUR
SUBTOTAL                           22    22    22    22   122    22
SUBTOTAL FIXED COMP.                   48    48    48    48    48    48
LESS'  LOSS OF FIXED SlURCHARGE        11
TOTAL FIXED COMPONENT                  37    48    48    48    48    48
TOTAL GAS DEVELOPMENT SUJRCHARGE   284   311   321   340   352   358
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1
03/07/83



- 82 -ANNEx 5.03
PA K 1ST A N                      Appendix 3
NORTHERN SlIT GAS PIF'ELINE PROJECT V
GAS PURCHASFS
1983    1984      1 985    1 986    1987      1988
QUANTITIES PURCHASED
IN MILLION M3
SUI                       3,591   3,770   3,901.   4r24?   4,385   4,396
MEYAL/DHULIAN               308       309      308      308      308      309
TUT                          62        83       82       82       82        82
SUBTOTAL                3,961   41.62   4,291   46'32   4,775   4,787
PRICE
RS/MILLION M3
SUI                      204.50  204.50  204.50  204.50  204.50  204.50
MEYAL/DHULIAN            157.00  157f00  157.00  157.00  157,00  157.00
TUT                      157.00  157.00  1.57.00  157.00  157.00  157.00
COST OF GAS
MILLION RUPEES
SUI                            734      771.     798      867      897       899
MEYAL/DHIJLIAN                48       49       48       48       48        49
TUT                           10       13       13       13       13        13
- -   - "    -  - .   -  - - - --    - -- --.-    - -- -- -
TOTAL COST                  792       833      859      928      958      961
ENERGY DlEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1
03/08/83



- 83 -                                 ANNEX 5.03
PAKISTAN                                  Appendix 4
NORTHERN Stil GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V
DEPRFCIATION SCHFbUl F
(TN MIlLION RUPEES)
COST OF   1982-83   1983-84   19R4-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-R8
ASSFTS
ASSETS AS OF 6,30.1982                2,670        130        126        118        115        llt        107
ADDITIONS - DURING 82-83                441         31         35         35         35         31         28
- DURING 83-84               951          -         69         69         69         69         69
- DURING 84-85             1,190          -          -         84         84         84         84
- DURING 85-86               434          -          -          -         33         33         33
- DURING 86-87               234          -          -          -          -         19         19
- DURING 87-88               257          -          -          -          -          -         22
REVALUATION OF ASSETS                  1,927         47         62         83        100        128        161
TOTAL DEPRECIATION GROSS              8,104        208        292        389        436        475        523
LESS: DEPRECIATION CHARGEDt TO
OUTSIDE CONSTR. CONTRACTS           -          4          -          -          -          -          -
DEPRECIATION NET                      8,104        204        292        389        436        475        523
DEPRECIATION AMOUNTING TO RP 4 MIl.LION NOT
CLAIMED ON PN BANK, AS IT HAS BFFN TNCt.lIPFD
IN THE COSTS OF PN CHARGES
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS OIVISION 1
05/18/83



ANNEX 5.03
- 84 -                  Appendix 5
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE LIMITED
RATE OF DEPRECIATION
SRL NO.                       ASSET                              RATE
1.      Building and civil construction                       5%
2.      Transmission lines and crossings               Amortization of
90% of the
cost by year
2000
3.      Sales meter and regulating stations                   5%
4.      Distribution system and facilities
12" and above                                         3%
5.      Distribution system and facilities
below 12"                                             5%
6.      Consumer meter stations and town
border stations                                       5%
7.      Telecommunications system and equipment               15%
8.      Compressor stations and equipment                     6%
9.      Purification plant including dehydration
plant proposed at Meyal                             7-1/2%
10.      Transport vehicles                                    25%
11.      Loose tools                                         33-1/3%
12.      Furniture and equipment                               20%
13.      Construction equipment                                20%
14.      Air conditioners                                      20%
15.      Other plant and machinery,                            10%



PAKISTAN                   - 85 -
NORTHERN SUI GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V                                                    ANNEX  5.03
DEBT SCHEDULE                                                               Appendix 6
(IN MILLION RUPEES)                                                             Page  1 of 3
1?83   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
IBRD-PAK 377 (5.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               20      7       -      -       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -
REPAYMENTS                                      13      7       -
BALANCE                                          7       -      -
INTEREST                                         1      -       -      -       -      -
IBRD-PAK 597 (6.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               55     48      41     34      28     22
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -       -      -       -
REPAYMENTS                                       7      7       7      6       6      6
BALANCE                                         48     41      34     28      22     16
INTEREST                                         4      3       3      2       2      1
IBRD-PAK 696 (7%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                              152    135    118    101       84     67
DRAWINGS                     ,                   _         _       _      _           _
REPAYMENTS                                      17     17      17     17      17     17
BALANCE                                        135    118    101      84      67     50
INTEREST                                        11     10       9      8       6      5
IBRD-PAK 1107 (8,5Z)
BEGINNING BALANCE                              589    568    546    521    494    465
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                      21     22      25     27      29     32
BALANCE                                        568    546    521    494    465    433
INTEREST RATE                                   52     50      48     46      43     40
BEGINING BALANCE WORLD BANK LOANS              816    758    705    656    606    554
ENDING BALANCE WORLDBANK LOANS                 758    705    656    606    554    499
CITIBANK (FLOATING)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                2      1       -      -       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       1      1       -      -       -      -
BALANCE                                          1       -      -      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         1      -       -      -       -      -
FOREIGN BORROWINGS-BEG.BALANCE                   825    766    712    663    613    561
FOREIGN BORROWINGS- BALANCE ENDING               766    712    663    613    561    506
NAT. DEV, FIN. CORP. (B. R. + 2.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                5      4       3      2       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       1      1       1      2       -      -
BALANCE                                          4      3       2      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         1      -       -      -       -      -
THIRD CONSORTIUM (B. R. + 2.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               20     17      14     11       9      9
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       3      3       3      2       -      -
BALANCE                                         17     14      11      9       ?      9



-  86 -                                     ANNEX  5.03
Appendix 6
Page 2 of 3
INTEREST                                         2      2       2       1      1      1
FOURTH CONSORTIUM (BANK RATE + 2.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               39     33      28     22      17     11
DRAWINGS 
REPAYMENTS                                       6      5       6      5       6      6
BALANCE                                         33     28      22     17      11      5
INTEREST                                         5      4       3      3       2      1
HUSLIM COM. BANK LTD (B. R. + 2.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               20     19      16     14      11      9
DRAWINGS                                         -       -      -       -      -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       1      ;3      2      3       2      3
BALANCE                                         19      16     14      11      9      6
INTEREST                                         3      2       2      2       1      1
HABIB BANK LTD (9%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                2      I       -      -       -      -
DRAWINGS                                                .                             _
REPAYMENTS                                       1      1       -      -       -      -
BALANCE                                          1       -      -      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         -
BEGINNING BALANCE SECURED RUPEES LOANS         140    tll      82     56      38     30
ENDING BALANCE  SECURED RUPEES LOANS           111     82      56     38      30     21
PAK. IND. DEV. CORP. (5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               60     60       -      -       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       -     60       -      -       -      -
BALANCE                                         60      -       -      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         3      2       -      -.-            -
NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN (8%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                4      2       -      -       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       2      2       -      -       -      -
BALANCE                                          2      -       -      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         _                             _
FIFTH DEBENTURES (FLOATING)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               53     36      20      6       -      -
DRAWINGS                                         -      -       -       -
REPAYMENTS                                      17     16      14      6       -      -
BALANCE                                         36     20       6      -       -      -
INTEREST                                         -      -       -      -       -      -
FIFTH CONSORTIUM (B. R. + 2.5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                               30     30      28     24      20     16
DRAWINGS                                         -       -      -       -      -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       -      2       4      4       4      4
BALANCE                                         30     28      24     20      16     12
INTEREST                                         4      4       3      3       2      2
BEGINNING BALANCE UNSECURED RUPEES LOANS        94     92      28     24      20     16
ENDING BALANCE UNSECURED RUPEES LOANS           92     28      24     20      16     12
EXISTING LOANS - BEG. BALANCE                  1,059    969    822    743    671    607
EXISTING LOANS- ENDING BALANCE                   976    829    750    678    614    546
FUTURE BANK LOAN (12,5%)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                -      -    270    485    537    499



- 87 -                                           ANNEX  5.03
Appendix 6
Page 3 of 3.
DRAWINGS                                         -    270    215      52       -      -
REPAYNENTS                                       -      -       -      -      38     38
BALANCE                                          -    270    485    537    499    461
INTEREST                                         -     17      47     64     65      60
FUTURE EXPORT CREDIT (FLOATING RATE)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                -      -    268    345    345    276
DRAWINGS                                         -    268      77      -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       -      -       -      -     69    276
BALANCE                                          -    268    345    345    276        -
INTEREST                                        -      17     38      43     39      17
FUTURE LOCAL LOANS (BANK RATE + 2.5X)
BEGINNING BALANCE                                -    253    728    996    686    624
DRAWINGS                                       253    475    300       -       -      -
REPAYMENTS                                       -      -      32    310     62      99
BALANCE                                        253    728    996    686    624    525
INTEREST                                        16     61    108    105      82      72
FUTURE BORROUINGS
BEEINNING BALANCE                                -    253  1,266  1,826  1,568  1,399
DRAWINGS                                       253  1,013    592      52       -      -
REPAYHENTS                                       -      -      32    310    169    413
BNALNCE                                        253  1,266  1,826  1,568  1,399    986
INTEREST                                        16     95    193    212    186    149
OPENING BALANCE (TOTAL BORROWINGS)             1,059  1,222  2,088  2,569  2,239  2,006
REPAYMENTS                                        90    147    111    382    233    481
DRAWINGS                                         253  1,013    592      52       -      -
INTEREST                                         109    176    265    278    243    200
ENDING BALANCE (TOTAL BORROWINGS)              1,222  2,088  2,569  2,239  2,006  1,525
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM PROJECTS DIVISION 1
05/18/83



PAKISTAN                       - 88 -
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT V                                             ANEX 5.03
TAX SCHEDULE                                                        Appendix  7
(IN MILLION RUPEES)
FORECAST
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
ACCOUNTING TAX CALCULATION
PROFIT                             93   120   126   187   249   303
TAX AT 52.51                       49    63    66    98   131   159
STATUTORY TAX CALCULATION
PROFIT PER YEAR                    93   120   126   187   249   303
ACCOUNTING DEPRECIATION           204   292   389   436   475   523
DISALLOWANCE UNDER TAX
INCOlE ORDINANCE                    7     7     7     7      7     7
SUBTOTAL                        304   419   522   630   731   833
LESS:  TAX DEPRECIATION           243   502   659   455   356   326
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR TAX PURPOSES    61   (83) (137)  175   375   507
LESS BROUGHT FORWARD                -     -   (83) (220)    -      -
TAXABLE INCONE (LOSS)              61     -     -      -   375   507
TAX AT 52.5%                       32     -     -     -   197   266
PROVISION FOR DEFERRED TAX
ADDITION (REDUCTION) PER YEAR      17    63    66    98   (66) (107)
RECORDED IN ACCCOUNTS              17    63    66    98   (66) (107)
ERGY  DEPARTHENT
PETROLEU PROJECTS DIVISION 1
05/18/83



ANNEX 5.04
- 89-
Pakistan
Fifth Northern Gas Pipeline Project V
Costing of Covenants From LN1107 PAK - SNGPL IV
Dated May 15, 1975, Article V
(SNGPL IV)
5.01     The Borrower shall maintain adequate records:
5.02     (a)  The Borrower shall provide audited statements not later than 4
months after the end of each year;
(b) the Auditor shall certify that the Borrower has complied with
the covenants of the Loan Agreement.
5.03     The security constituted by the Trust Deed will be so modified and
extended that new principal, interest and other charges will rank pari passu
with existing loans.
5.04     There will be no liens on any assets as security for any debt except
as created by the Trust Deed.
5.05     The Borrower shall not make, prior to closing date, any investments
(other than carrying out investment program) which would exceed US$2 million
without Bank's permission.
5.06     The Dividends will be declared only out of the undistributed profits
and assuming that after the payment of the dividend the current assets would
be at least 1.2 times more than current liabilities.
5.07     SNGPL shall maintain tariffs for supply of gas which will provide
revenues sufficient concurrently to:
(i) produce an annual rate of return on net paid assets of not less
than 12% (net fixed assets should be adjusted from time to time
to reflect current replacement value); and
(ii) enable SNGPL to service its debt, pay taxes and dividends,
maintain adequate working capital and finance a reasonable part
of the cost of new capital investment.
5.08     SNGPL shall not permit the ratio of debt to equity to exceed 65/35.



_ 90 _                         ANNEX 6.01
Selected Documents in Project File
1.   Pakistan Energy Year Book (1981)
2.   Report of Government of Pakistan Working Group on Development and
conservation of Energy Resourc:es (1983)
3.   Feasibility Study to increase the Gas Supply in Pakistan, GDC (1981)
4.   Sui Northern Pipeline Company Ltd. Annual Reports (1980-82)
5.   Sui Northern Pipeline Company Ltd. Project V Description (1982)















IBRD 16906R
672                                        60¢                                         7l  6'                                       74'              MAY 1983
PAK ISTAN                                                                          U   S. S&  R.
SUI NORTHERN  GAS PIPELINES LTD. PROJECT V                                                                                  ITHINA
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SYSTEMS                                                                                 -
-  \aturcl gas pip31 nes                                                                       "'j
Proposed n0tra gas pipelines                                                            c                                                 36.'.
Natural qas tie ds                                                               7-       "3
"i f e ds                                                                                                     I.
Fert Izer plants
N trogen Phosphatest4s                                                                                                           mO,0 j
*           *     Completed                                                              /
J Under,:OnstructTO (onakht                                                                      r uo
'- i   (L'   P-otpcsed                                          ;                       t$                                     ND &
_-_Pr,)vinc ta b          Ptnd oies                                                            '             w   r   H     \           JAMM)
- - n            tternot.rn  b-uP aie s                                                                                                    N D
Flu(ueta~ [stopsWc] 
P onto                                                    /            hD'U U   F   T -Iu
Pmocino o hondares~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hwonoa
larornationa  ctaiSthon 1t                                                                                                           t
i2'v4's'                             @--    '/v'   Rt'fA8.dlq3T O d                                   _  t              -j-                          28t
s' N $ .  t ltS KILO                                                                                                  4
ISLAMI          T D                          ' uer                              A       ooi
IRN
:   :                                ftgSiSL              , I~~ 's4C  ..RA  1,                                                                 > 
s'-'3 f                             (7         4      /   ~i'~             "                  0          iOU          200         200         400
t.'l ~ ~ ~ KHIIPA I' Lg:          & Jr.r hUoonv
L0i'i
5'     f                t                 2/   arf?i          f                            _   pno b .ull
r                         .   --                                                                          0                 10                 20                  200 nr:n1sd#U Jr vu/1
n 45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I LuUr tt AA E T E R 5
IC          2~~~00              300
62  t>t  v \ 2 0 0 0 - X -J v u < z 9 $2n 4!~~~~~~~0 
{ ~ ~~~               ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         I L  E S::/ ;'      s' 
74'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   
62'                                             o






or       Zr                              .               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th B.,  rdon
I   Oo-sddo 
PA K I STA N                                                                                           H-- Pe  - Nwh,  >  (  p
SUI NORTHERN                                 I -3                               ADto                   Polka -
GAS PIPELINES LTD. PROJECT Y                                 3I1100 IBHP                                                      MAAEA D
TRANSMISSION   SYSTEM  OFoopo,                                                                                                               oaooo
SUI NORTHERN  GAS PIPELINES LTD.                                                                                                                          J   AeA4o
A IVD
PROJECT-COMPONENTS           Thol      FC-1              ----                                                                         AA S      M H    / P
-  Phse I
30-                     C-,p-,si-,  F.c  ;lies.
Ph-s IK.  .
L     Ph-s iihU-
P.rifica-tio- Rmk
EXISTING TRAN5MISSION SYSTEM
so_n S-t-ber 9, 3982):                                                            -       -- -G_b___
~~'-3 3CG s ..m.- , s i\-
3~~~~    1  ,5@X   f//<j P000
Ri,e- 
o Ca-e and Tow-
M'ai' Ro-ds
R., ,                                                                             S,d2
\O               '',    Prn -al B-d.-,                                                                     ,. aM,61
4~~~~11CO BHP                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odke
Kol
><  Sadigobod ' \ [ t / 1~~~~~~~~~~~~X                                     ,                                  ha
AC-4                             -~~~~~~~~A-
4h:p.< a> .S 3800 530                                                             1 1W301) ;r.0  RoodC.1-_N.1_1. 80H
/         \   ~'/                                                .         .                      >z9 }           <N  D } AHP
7 '    o_  .BHP                                                                                                                                                      33
(.0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
FPURIFICATION/o~nnoeuoeeo
~~~~~~~-60MMCF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                     odo.i, 000000 00
A/ D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    00000000
AFGHANISTAN  ,    *
tk,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0    40 MOS      uo                                     ~         NI 
RIoo,rpoo                                                                                                                                       000,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ic<    ND  
7 ~~~~~~~oo SA-



