Document of
The World Bank                              FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-359 7-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP]
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$43.0 MILLION
TO THE
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
May 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1           =  Rs  12.5
RS 1           =  US$ 0.08
Fisca:l Year
Government of Pakistan and SNGPL
July 1 -  June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                       Asian Developmnent Bank
BCF                       billion cubic feet
BD                        barrel per day
GOP                       Government of Pakistan
KESC                      Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
MCF                       1,000 standard cubic feet (SCF) of gas
MMCF                      1 million SCF
MMCFD                     1 million SCF daily
OGDC                      Oil and Gas Development Corporation
POL                       Pakistan Oilfields Ltd.
PPL                       Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.
SGTC                      Sul Gas Transmission Company
SML                       Sui Main Limestone
SNGPL                     Sul Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SUL                       Sui Upper Limestone
TCF                       trillion cubic feet
TOE                       tons of crude oil equivalent
Tpy                       ton per year
USAID                     United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA                     Water and Power Development Authority
4



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                         Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL)
Guarantor:                        Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:                      Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL)
Amount:                           US$43.0 million equivalent (including capi-
talized front-end fee)
Terms:                            Repayable in 17 years, including three years
of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government of Pakistan would
charge a guarantee fee which would be no less
than a 10% mark-up of the Bank's lending
rate.
Project Description:              The proposed project, which would support the
Government's gas development plan designed
to increase gas supplies in the country,
consists of (i) the expansion of the Sui
Northern Cas Pipeline system to transmit and
distribute an additional 70 MMCFD of gas
which will become available to SNGPL; and
(ii) technical assistance to upgrade the
management and operations of SNGPL.  The
project involves some risks regarding the
timely availability of additional gas sup-
plies; these are addressed under the proposed
project arrangements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii--
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
---- -US$  million---- -
Expansion of SNGPL's System                           109.4        60.7       170.1
Technical Assistance                                    0.5         1.7         2.2
Base Cost                                         109.9        62.4       172.3
Physical Contingencies                                 11.0         6.2        17.2
Price Contingencies                                     5.4         1.8         7.2
Total Project Cost 1/                            126.3        70.4       196.7
Front-End Fee                                           -           0.1         0.1
Total Financing Required                              126.3        70.5       196.8
Duties and Taxes                                       39.2          -         39.2
Net Financing Required                                 87.1        70.5       157.6
Financing Plan:
Local     Fcreign       Total
---… US$ million--------
IBRD                                             -        43.0        43.0
Export/Suppliers Credits                         -         27.5        27.5
Local Loans                                    49.7          -         49.7
Contributions From Consumers                   15.6          -         15.6
SNGPL                                          61.0          -         61.0
Total                              126.3        70.5       196.8
Estimated Disbursements:
FY84       FY85         FY86
-------US$ million--------
Annual                                         21.7        17.2         4.1
Cumulative                                     21.7        38.9        43.0
Rate of Return:    About 60%
Appraisal Report:  No. 4312-PAJ  dated March 22, 1983
Maps:                IBRD 16906R; IBRD 16907
1/ Estimate does not incltude interest during construction.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE D)IRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAT TO
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
1.      T submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) with the guarantee of the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$43.0 million to help
finance a Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  EconoTnic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 16, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about 2.8%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8% p.a. and in
industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3577-PAK (Fifth Agricultural Development Bank Project)
dated May 16, 1983.



-2-
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Governiment have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies.  Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs.  An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timnely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture w1hich emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitat:ion of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas.  Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise
and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions,
and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports.  These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which has improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in private investment,
mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the



-3-
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance witlh the recomm-jenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years and
the Covernment's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The budgetary
situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82. Government
revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by an
average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 13% pea.
The expansion of development and administrative expenditures were restrained,
while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%. These restraints on expendi-
tures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in surpluses generated
by public sector agencies helped to increase the availability of
non-inflationary domestic resources.  During FY80 through FY82, the overall
budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the bank-financed budget deficit 1.7%
of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s. The Government's
conservative fiscal and monetary policies have succeeded in dampening the
rate of inflation despite external pressures and substantial increases in the
prices of some consumer goods because of reductions in subsidies; prices rose
by about 10% in FY82 (compared with 13% in FY81) and have been rising at an
annual rate of around 5% in recent months.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77 and
FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the external
position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an increase in the
value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants, fertilizer, edible
oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$991 million or
3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77
in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's ability
to finance the FY81 current account deficit, These included the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in Tlovember 1980; a
positive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement



-4-
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence of iinproved performance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million during the year; the latter
was the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods and serv-
ices.
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%).  For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in both
unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in the world
economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitiveness result-
ing from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January 1982 (the
currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket of curren-
cies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous year. Because
of the decline in world petroleum prices and import substitution in some key
sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume of inporits of essential
raw materials and capital goods could still grow sufficiently to provide for
a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total value of imports expanded by only
2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakistan's current account deficit rose from
US$991 million in FY81 to USS1,530 million in FY82 (the latter being equiv-
alent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows of official assistance, private capital
and IMF resources were not sufficient to cover the increased deficit and
there was a drawdown of about US$200 million in reserves. At the end of
FY82, reserves were US$840 million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of
imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature.  Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a nurmber of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied



-5-
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
15.     74anufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to be
carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing
and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To assist the
recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum in the
industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local and foreign
financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provi-
sion of necessary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the
same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system
supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage.
Analysis is in progress to determine levels of effective protection in order
to provide the basis for formulating an appropriate industrial development
strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies.  Nevertheless, due to a variety of teclnical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The Government
has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization in order to accelerate progress.



-6-
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, irmproved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities were introduced in the FY83 budget, especially for rural
areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings.  At 12% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development. The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitablv calls for restraining
private consumption through further appropriate price adjustments and selec-
tive duty increases on non-essential imports. Continued restraints on spend-
ing and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for exanple, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector.  Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand



-7-
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in agricul-
ture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economic growth and better international trade performance, and have
established an improved framework within which further reforms can be effec-
tively pursued.  The recent government policy initiatives, which have been
formulated in close consultation with the Bank and Fund, have improved Pakis-
tan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and
IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external debt service was
13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service livided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12% in FY82,
should rise slowly during the 1980s, even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remaining in the 15-16% range through
FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.5 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over.a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting econoliic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of



-8--
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providirng essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase tlhe productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. As of
March 31, 1983, IFC had made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises for a
total of US$183.1 million, of which US$176.7 million was by way of loans and
US$11.4 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II).
About US$58.4 million of these investments remained outstanding. The
enterprises assisted by IFC include 3 in the field of pulp and paper
products, 2 each in textiles, food and food processing, and petrochemicals,
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, plastics and wood processing.
IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
instittutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction utnder the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Darns.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening the
Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply project in
Lahore is currently undler implementation. Five credits for education, total-
ing US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and
higher technical and agricultural educatiLon, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.



-9-
28.     In addition to financing specific highn-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to protracted government procedures for
project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to slowness in the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary con-
straints have been problems in the case of some projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power generation, industrial financing, oil and gas development, irrigation
and agriculture. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints
for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is
justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND GAS SUBSECTOR
A. Energy Sector
32.     Inadequate domestic production of energy has become an increasingly
seriouis constraint to economic growth in Pakistan. TWhile recent efforts to
expand domestic energy supplies have led to increases in domestic production,
particularly of hydro-electricity, the country remains heavily dependent upon
imported petroleum to meet its primnary energy requirements. In 1980/81
imports of crude oil and petroleum products totalled US$1.6 billion, equiv-
alent to 26% of total imports.  The Government has instituted a range of
policies to encourage further exploration and development of domestic energy
resources and to facilitate greater private participation in the sector, and



-1 0-
is strengthening its institutional capacity in energy planning, development
and conservation.
Pakistan-s Energy Supply, Consumption and Resources
33.     Commercial energy in Pakistan represents about 58% of total energy
consumption in the country, with non-commercial energy sources such as
firewood, vegetable residues, and dungcake accounting for the remaining 42%.
Consumption of commercial energy increased at a rate of about 7.0% p.a.
during the past decade. Over this same period, the composition of commercial
energy supply changed substantially, with the share of natural gas and
hydro-electricity increasing from 46% to 58% and that of oil (90% of which is
imported) dropping from 45% to 37%. On the consumption side, industry and
transportation remained as the major consumers of commercial energy, repre-
senting over 50% of energy use.
34.     Pakistan has significant reserves of natural gas which currently
supply about 42% of commercial energy requirements. Recent estimates place
proven recoverable gas reserves at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Although
production of gas in FY82 at 323 billion cubic feet (BCF) was over 20% higher
than in FY80, demand has overtaken supply and substantial load shedding has
been necessary during the peak winter seasons. To further increase gas
production, the Government's gas development plan has been designed to
achieve a production increase of 30% over present output by 1986. This
supply increase, however, will be insufficient to meet the country-s energy
demand requirements by a wide margin, and steps to accelerate exploration for
new reserves have been initiated.
35.     Known domestic oil reserves are modest, with recoverable reserves
estimated at about 100 million barrels. Since 1977, when the Government
introduced more attractive terms for exploration and production by private
oil companies, exploration activity has increased significantly but so far
with only one small discovery at Khaskeli. Total domestic crude production
in FY82 averaged about 3.9 million barrels representing only 10% of total
crude oil demand in Pakistan.
36.     Hydro-electric power capacity of 1,850 MW accounted for 16% of com-
mercial energy requirements and 56% of total power generated in FY81. The
total potential for hydro power (mainly on the Indus and Jhelum rivers) is
estimated at about 20,000 MW. Investment plans envisage incremental
increases in hydro capacity totaling about 2,800 MW by 1990 which would
maintain the share of hydro in total power generation at its present level.
The installed capacity of thermal power plants in FY82 was 2,100 MW. During
the next five years, GOP plans to increase installed thermal capacity by
about 2,600 MW.
37.     Coal production of 1.6 million tons p.a. (90% of which is used for
brick making) supplied only 5.3% of commercial energy in FY81.  The Geologi-
cal Survey of Pakistan estimates total recoverable reserves of coal at 640



-11-
million tons, of which only 20% are proven. Most of the proven coal reserves
are of poor quality. The Government is now placing greater emphasis on the
development of coal; this strategy would be assisted under a recently
approved Bank project to assess possible development of coal supplies in the
Duki area of Baluchistan province for power generation. Pakistan has one
operational nuclear power station which provided 0.2% of commercial energy
consumption in FY81; a second is planned.
Energy Sector Organization
38.     Operational responsibility for the various energy sub-sectors in
Pakistan is divided among several public and private entities. Oil and gas
exploration and development is carried out by the state owned Oil and Gas
Development Corporation (OGDC) and a number of international oil companies
under joint venture concession agreements with OGDC and GOP. Two
predominantly private companies, Pakistan Petroleum Ltd. (PPL) and Pakistan
Oilfields Ltd. (POL), account for most domestic oil and gas production; POL
produ-ces oil from Meyal and PPL gas from Sui. There are three oil refineries
in Pakistan, two privately owned and one in the public sector. Two of the
three oil distribution and marketing companies are also state-owned. Natural
gas purification, transmission and distribution are largely in the public
sector; the Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC) purifies Sui gas and trans-
mits it to the south of the country while Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd.
(SNGPL) transmits and distributes gas in the north. Responsibility for power
generation and distribution principally lies with two autonomous government
organizations. Coal exploration and development are undertaken mainly
through leases granted to private mining concerns and by a public sector
mining agency.
39.      The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources is responsible for
planning and policy making for oil, gas and coal. All matters relating to
power generation and distribution are regulated by the Ministry of Water and
Power. The role of coordinating energy planning is assigned to the Ministry
of Planning and Development. Overall authority for national energy policy
formulation and coordination is entrusted to the National Energy Policy
Committee (NEPC), co-chaired by the Ministers of Finance and Petroleum,
Energy pricing decisions are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance;
however major decisions are referred to the Economic Coordination Committee
(ECC) of the Federal Cabinet.
Energy Strategy
40.     Until recently there was considerable optimism in Pakistan that
domestic supplies of natural gas, together with some expansion in
hydro-electric facilities, would meet much of the country's increase in
energy requirements. However, recent data indicate that for the foreseeable
future proven gas reserves will be inadequate to meet the rapidly growing



-12-
demand and that, in the short and mid-term, supplies will be limited by
inadequate investment in field development and transmission facilities. GOP
development policies are being adjusted to this new situation. As discussed
below, reforms in wellhead and consumer oil and gas pricirng have been
initiated. In the immediate futuire there is a need to moderate gas demand
and to increase the use of alternative fuels in the power sector through the
conversion of a number of power stations from gas to fLuel oil.  In addition,
most new power stations will be based oni fuel oil and other alternative fuels
such as coal.  Work on a comprehensive national energy plan is under way with
assistance from international consultanis.
41.     Most petroleum products sold domestically are covered by government
price controls both at producer and consumer levels. Until recently, during
a long period of excess gas supplies, natural gas prices to consumers were
kept at levels far below the value of energy from competing fuels.  This
policy was designed to help counter inflationary pressures and to encourage
consumption of gas to reduce depenlence on oil imports.  As a result gas
demand has grown so rapidly that a serious shortage of gas has developed and
various forms of quantitative restrictions lhave been adopted.  At the begin-
ning of 1982, GOP announced a new policy of phased increases in gas consumer
prices to help restrain demand ancl to rationalize the price of energy from
various sources. Two substantial increases have been implemented in line
with a medium-term target of reaching two-thirds of fuiel oLl parity by FY88
(see details in paragraph 55). GOP has assigned an increased role for
private investment in the energy sector, and incentives to explore for and
develop new oil discoveries have induced an increased level of activity with
private participation. Prices for oil from existing fields, previously set
at low levels, have been increased,  Incentives for exploration and develop-
ment of gas have also been improved.
Bank Group Involvement
42.     World Bank Group operations in Pakistan in the energy sector have
included several power projects; substantial assistance for the extension
of the gas distribution system; a project for domestic oill production at the
Toot field; a refinery engineering and energy efficiency project; and a coal
exploration project.  Advances under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) have financed a Gas Demand and Supply Study and stu(dies for the Dhodak
field. Further projects in the power, oil and gas and refinery sectors are
being prepared. In addition, IFC has participated in financing an expansion
in capacity at Attock Refinery, the development of the Meval field and
recently in the further development of the Sui Gas field.
43.     Be-inniog in 1954, the Bank Group has financed five gas pipeline
operations in Pakistan. The first (Loan 99-PAK) assisted SGTC with its first
gas pipeline. The following four were designed to increa.se the capacity of
SNGPL's gas transmission and distribution system and to strengt:hen its tech-
nical and financial capability. The first SNGPL project (Loan 377-PAK) was



-1 3-
approved in 1964. The most recent, the Fourth SNGPL project (Loan 1107-PAK),
approved in May 1975, has now been successfully completed. The main com-
ponents of the project were completed on schedule in 1978 with significant
cost savings. A number of small related additional items were then under-
taken, with the approval of the Bank, using the savings under the Loan; these
were completed in 1982. A Project Completion Report is now being prepared by
the Borrower. All of the previous projects were also completed satisfac-
torily, substantially achieving their objectives. Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPAR) were prepared for the second and third projects (PPAR No. 478
dated June 18, 1974 and PPAR No. 1139 dated April 19, 1976, respectively).
One of the main findings of these audits was the important role of the Bank
in assisting institution-building and the efficient development of the sec-
tor. Pakistan now has one of the most extensive gas grids in the developing
world and SNGPL is a competent technical and commercial entity.
44.     The Bank-s economic and sector dialogue with GOP has focused on
issues in the energy sector, which is one of the major policy areas being
addressed under the Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit. This dialogue has
assisted GOP to formulate long-term plans for the sector and has led to
agreements under the SAL on important policy changes, including undertakings
to: (a) promote the accelerated exploration of concession areas held under
license by OGDC, inter alia, through the negotiation of private sector par-
ticipation; (b) implement GOP's revised gas development strategy, inter alia,
through inducing additional private investment; (c) progressively rationalize
consumer/user prices of natural gas in relation to alternative energy forms;
(d) strengthen and reorganize OGDC; and (e) work on an agreed program of data
collection and analysis leading to the preparation of a long-term integrated
energy plan for Pakistan. Through the proposed project the Bank would con-
tinue to promote a rational gas development strategy in response to emerging
gas shortages. The Government's gas development plan, of which the proposed
project is an integral part, emerged as a direct result of the Gas Supply and
Demand Study financed by a project preparation advance under the proposed
project. Through involvement in the proposed project, the Bank would assist
in mobilizing private sources of financing for Pakistan's energy development.
B. Natural Gas Sub-Sector
Gas Reserves, Production and Consumption
45.     Total original proved gas reserves in Pakistan are estimated at 16.4
trillion cubic feet (TCF) and remaining recoverable reserves at 12.9 TCF.
Additional possible reserves are estimated at 1.3 TCF, although this could be
increased substantially with further exploration.
46.     Natural gas was first discovered in Pakistan in 1952 at Sui in
Baluchistan. The Sui field is the largest field in Pakistan with original



-14-
recoverable reserves of 10.5 TCF. The second largest field, Mari, estimated
to contain original recoverable reserves of 4.5 TCF, was discovered in 1957.
During the 1950s several other smaller fields containing rnostly poor quality
gas were discovered, none of which are now producing.  In 1977, OGDC made one
significant, though much smaller, gas discovery at Pirkoh and in 1976 dis-
covered a gas condensate field at Dhodak. Associated gas is produced in
small quantities from Meyal and Toot oil fields.
47.     During FY82, a total of 323 BCF (885 MMCFD) of gas was consumed
equivalent to about 7 million tons of crude oil.  The power sector was the
main consumer (28%) followed by general industries (26%) and fertilizer
(23%). Residential use, while accounting for less than 10% of total gas use,
was the most rapidly growing sector over the past decade.
48.     Gas demand in Pakistan is highly seasonal, due partly to marked
variations in the hydel generating capacity related to variations in the
water levels of the northern reservoirs. In FY82 there was load shedding in
excess of 100 MMCFD due to a shortage of gas in the peak riontlas.
Gas Supply and Demand Balance
49.     Over the next decade the gas industry will undergo major changes.  On
the supply side, there will be a shift from dependence for pipeline gas on a
single field (Sui) to dependence on several fields (Sui, Pirkoh, Khandkhot,
Dhodak and others) with differing physical and cost characteristics.  On the
demand side, effective load management will be required to even out seasonal
demand peaks and to allocate scarce gas to its highest value uses. This will
require much more effective and flexible planning systems involving
producers, transmission companies and users as well as GOP. It will also
require policies which provide greater automatic incentive for producers and
users to rationalize their supply and demand decisions.
50.     In FY81 supply from all fields in Pakistan averaged 760 MMCFD (Sui
equivalent).  Following completion of the gas development plan (described in
the next section), production will increase to around 1,000 MM1YCFD by FY86 and
stabilize at around 1,100 MMCFD for the remainder of the decade. IJnless
additional gas supplies are forthcoming, average daily deniand will exceed
supply in every year beyond FY82 and the peak demand deficit will con-
tinuously increase, from about 200 MMCFD in FY81 up to about 800 MMCFD in
FY91.
51.     In view of the constraints on gas supply, GOP has mandated various
measures to limit the growth in gas demand. No new thermal power generation
is to be gas fired (beyond that previously sanctioned and included in the gas
development plan) and new gas connections are being rationed. As a result of
these measures and the proposed increases in,gas prices to consumers, con-
strained demand (i.e. demand from connected customers) is projected to
increase more gradually to reach, on an average day basis, 1,200 MMCFD bv



-15-
FY91. Even with this rationing, however, peak demand will exceed supply in
every year of the decade.
Gas Development Plan
52.     A Gas Supply and Demand Study prepared by consultants in 1981, while
identifying major emerging gas shortages, confirmed that production from
proven gas fields could be substantially increased over current levels if
appropriate additional investments were made. Acting on the results of this
study, GOP has developed a medium-term gas development plan designed to
increase production from proven fields by 264 MMCFD by 1986. The plan will
involve investments in field development of about US$490 nillion (constant
.1981 prices) and associated pipeline investments of about US$250 million.
The essential elements of the gas development plan are:
(i) major investments in gas compression facilities at the Sui field
to sustain the present production rate from the Sui Main Lime-
stone reservoir and development of the Sui Upper Limestone
reservoir; this is being implemented by PPT. with support from
IFC;
(ii) development of the Pirkoh gas field to a production rate of 70
NMCFD to be supplied to SGTC to meet gas shortfalls in the
southern system; this is being implemented by OGDC with support
from ADB;
(iii) expansion of the SGTC system to transmit Pirkoh gas to the
south; this is being supported by ADB;
(iv)  development of the Kandhkot gas field to produce 40 MICFD of gas
to be supplied to a newly installed 210 MW Guddu IV steam power
unit; this is being financed by PPL and implementation is under-
way;
(v) development of Mari gas field from the present 200 MMCFD
capacity up to 387 MMCFD; financing of this Cevelopment is being
arranged by the new field owners;
(vi) construction of a pipeline from Mari to the Guddu power station
where the additional Mari gas would be used; this is to be
implemented by WAPDA with support expected from ADB, USAID and
the Saudi Fund; and
(vii) expansion of the SNGPL system to transmit additional gas avail-
able from Sui which would be supported by the proposed project.



-16-
The gas development plan has been reviewed by Bank staff and is considered to
be achievable and an appropriate short-term response to the emerging gas
shortages. All of the items under the plan are at an advanced stage of
preparation and a number are being implemented.
53.     Even when the gas development plan is fully implemented, however,
demand will continue to exceed supply for the foreseeable future. It is,
therefore, of great importance that GOP takes all possible measures to both
increase gas supply and to limit the rapid growth in demand. As noted above
(paragraph 44), a number of major policy reforms to address this situation
have been agreed by GOP in the context of SAL. The Government intends to
take the following additional steps to ameliorate the situation: (a) carry
out a feasibility study of the economic viability of developing low quality
gas reservoirs particularly for power generation; (b) carry out a gas
utilization study designed to determinei the optimum allocation of unallocated
gas supplies to the highest value users; and (c) prepare and update annually
a medium-term rolling gas development and utilization plan based on a
re-evaluation of the optimum production potential of gas reserves and an
evaluation of the value of gas in alternative uses (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). In addition, SNGPL would carry out a study of the
feasibility of seasonal peak load shaving (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.     SNGPL had planned to add 50,000 new gas connections per year to the
existing system, of which 47,000 would be residential customers and the
remainder industrial and commercial.  This policy would add about 25 MMCFD
additional demand each year to a system already sutbject to increasing gas
shortages. On present evidence, contirnued investment in residential connec-
tions seemas to be economically justified, assuming that the gas will displace
high value kerosene.  The economic benefits from reduced kerosene demand
exceed the cost of investment in new connections plus the cost of additional
fuel oil used in the power sector (because of the shift of gas to the
residential sector). However, in the case of industrial and commercial
connections, the net economic benefit of new connections is unclear.
Recently introduced gas allocation policies reflect this and GOP and SNGPL
have agreed that, accordingly, no significant changes in existing allocations
of gas or allocation of newly discovered gas would be made until the results
of the gas utilization study referred to above are available (Section 3.03(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Gas Pricing
55.     Consumer Prices.  As noted in paragraph 41, until recently GOP fol-
lowed a policy of low gas consumer prices based on the assumption that there
would be surplus gas for the foreseeable future. However, as excess demand
has emerged, the need for a major revision of gas consumer prices has become
increasingly evident and, in connection with the recent Structural Ndjustment
Loan/Credit, GOP has adopted the policy of progressively increasing the



-17-
average gas consumer price to two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; at
current fuel oil prices, this implies an increase to about US$2.60/MCF. In
January 1982, average gas prices were increased by about 20%, and an addi-
tLoinal 25% average increase was announced in January 1983. Allowing for the
recent depreciation of the Pakistan rupee, these measures taken together
represent a real price increase of 25% since the end of 1981. The average
consumer price is now about $1.30/MCF, which is around 30% of the fuel oil
equivalent price.  Gas consumer prices vary considerably by class of user,
from US$0.80/MCF for power, up to $1.76/MCF for commercial users. With the
increased importance of gas demand management, the structure of gas prices
among users will also need to be reviewed. This issue is being discussed
with GOP in the context of the ongoing SAL dialogue.
56.     Producer Prices.  Historically gas producer prices in Pakistan have
been established on a cost plus basis. Sui gas was originally priced on the
basis of a formula designed to recover actual costs plus a guaranteed 15%
return on paid-in share capital. In the late seventies, as reservoir pres-
sure declined, it became clear that PPL would have to install major compres-
sion facilities to maintain field production and that the existing price
formula would not provide adequate incentives to undertake the required
investments or sufficient cash flow to finance them. In 1982, GOP and PPL
negotiated a revised producer price formula for Sui gas which provides PPL
the necessary incentives and financing for the gas compression investments.
A revision of the producer price for the Mari gas field will also be neces-
sary to provide for the proposed expansion in field production capacity. GOP
has agreed in principle to negotiate a higher price with the field owners in
return for a commitment to increase production.
57.     In fuiture it will be necessary to bring additional gas supplies
onstream from existing discovered fields which will require appropriate
producer pricing incentives. Under the SAL agreement, GOP has undertaken to
introduce a revised producer price formula for additional gas supplies which
does not have the drawbacks of a guaranteed rate of return approach; the
formula would encourage cost minimization, provide greater incentive to
increase production and provide a link to movements in international energy
prices. The Bank has stressed in the context of the SAL dialogue the need to
move rapidly to implement the new approach and the desirability of including
similar appropriate provisions in exploration agreements to encourage gas
exploration by private petroleum companies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.     As a result of the Gas Supply and Demand Study in 1981 (paragraph
52), GOP prepared a medium term gas development plan in 1982 and requested
the Bank to assist in implementing the proposed plan by financing the SNGPL
components. Project preparation was completed by SNGPT. in October 1982, and



-18-
the eroposed project was appraised in November 1982. Negotiations took place
in Washington from April 28 - May 13, 1983; the delegation from Pakistan was
:-eaded by Mr. Muktar Miasood, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
1Pkesoulrces. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan: Fifth Sui Northern
Gas Pipeline Project" (Report No. 4312.-PAK, dated March 22, 1983) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplem.entary data sheet
is attacLhed as Annex III.
Background and Objectives
59.     The proposed project is part cf an integrated program of investments
within the Government's Gas DevelopmerLt Plan (paragraph 52) designed to
increase gas supplies to the SNGPL system in order to alleviate increasingly
acute gas shortages in the north of the country. The main features of the
program are to: (i) supply an extra 19 IMCFD of Sui Upper Limestone (SUL)
gas to SNGPL; (ii)  increase the Mari field production capacity by 187 2MCFD;
(iii) supply the additional Mari gas to the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) for the Guddu power station where it will be used in two
existing and one new unit, releasing 55 IIMCFD of raw Sui gas to SNGPL; and
(iv) expand the SNGPL system to transmit and distribute the additional gas
from SUL (19 MI*CFD) and from Guddu (51 NICFD of purified Sui Gas).
60.     Although the proposed project would finance only the fourth component
of the program, successful implementation of the proposed project depends on
the timely implementation of the others.  Appropriate conditions to achieve
this have been included in the loan and guarantee agreements.
Incremental Gas Supplies
61.     PPL, the Sui gas field owner, has already agreed to install wellhead
gas compression facilities required tc maintain production f'rom the Sui Main
Limestone (SMI) and also to expand production from the SUL reservoir.
Fi.nalization of an agreement between E'PL and SNGPL for the supply of addi-
tional. Sui gas to the SNGPL system would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 7,01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Esso Eastern, the original
malor shareholder of the Mari gas field, has recently agreed. to sell its
interest in the Mari field to a Pakistani cormpany as part of a' corporate move
to consolidate its world-wide operations. The transfer of f'ield ownership
has been finalized and field development plans are being prepared by the new               I
ovwers.  The terms of a gas supply contract including the producer price
rem.ain to be negotiated between GOP, WAPDA and the new field owners.
Finaliization of an acceptable gas supply contract between the owners of the
Mari field and WAPDA would be a condit:ion of loan effectiveness (Section
, w01(do of the draft Loan Agreement).
62     TWAPDA has completed project preparation for the conversion of Guddu
s-Cear, units I and II from Sui to Mari gas, the installation of a new combined
cycle gas turbine plant and the construction of the Mari-Gucldu pipeline; GOP



-19-
will ensure that satisfactory arrangements are made for the implemenation
of these projects by September 30, 1985 (Section 3.05(b)(ii) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Finalization of an agreement between PPL and SNGPL
for the supply of 55 lI4CFD raw Sui gas released from Guddu would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness (Sections 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Description
63.     The proposed project includes:
(a) Installation of one 60 MICFD gas purification bank at Sui to
treat the additional raw gas allocated to SNGPL;
(b) Construction of about 430 miles of high pressure gas transmis-
sion pipelines of different diameters, complete with cathodic
protection of which 350 miles would be new and the remainder
would be uplifted and recovered from existing pipelines;
(c)  Installation of one 3800 BHP and four 1100 BHP tur-
bine/compressor units in four existing compressor stations;
(d) Development of the distribution system and service lines needed
to provide an estimated additional 25,000 new connections to the
system each year between FY84 and FY86;
(e) Provision of new and upgraded telecommunications facilities for
the SNGPL system; and
(f) Technical assistance to upgrade the management and operation of
SNGPL, including (a) a management information system, (b) a
feasibility study for peak-load shaving, and (c) overseas train-
ing. The cost of the completed Gas Supply and Demand Study
carried out under the Project Preparation Facility would be
refinanced under the proposed project.
The attached map summarizes the proposed expansion of the system.
Project Implementation
64.     SNGPL has its own Projects Department which carries out engineering
and construction activities. This department has accumulated considerable
experience in the construction of oil and gas pipelines and the installation
of compressor stations; it successfully completed the fourth SNGPL project
(Loan No. 1107-PAK) with savings of approximately 20% in construction costs
from the original estimate, as well as other major works. SNGPL would use
its Projects Department for the design, engineering and construction of the
proposed project. The project would involve a large amount of small works
scattered throughout the SNGPL system and extending over a distance of



-20-
approximately 800 miles; the majority of the works would involve working with
and integrating into a complex pipeline system under operating conditions
requiring close coordination between construction and operating forces. To
complete the first phase of the works in time to use the extra 19 MMCFD of
Sui gas when it becomes available in early 1984, construction has to commence
in early 1983, which would only be possible if SNGPL carried out the works as
proposed.  The remaining works to use the Sui gas to be released by WAPDA
would be completed by the end of 1985.  In view of the specific characteris-
tics of the works and the proven track record of SNGPL's Projects Department,
the proposed arrangements are expected to be efficient and economical and are
considered appropriate.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
65.     The project is estimated to cost US$196.8 million equivalent, includ-
ing the front-end fee, customs duties and taxes. Detailed cost estimates are
shown in the Loan and Project Summary. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$70.5 million (45% of the net project cost).  The project cost
includes 10% physical contingencies. Costs have been calculated in 1983
prices, with price contingencies on foreign costs of 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for
1985 and thereafter, and 8% p.a. on local costs. Studies under the project,
estimated to cost $500,000, would require approximately 40 man-months of
consultants estimated at $12,500 per man month, inclusive of foreign travel
and subsistance.
66.     The proposed Bank loan of US$43.0 million represents 27% of the total
project cost net of duties and taxes and would cover 61% of foreign expendi-
tures.  The loan would finance all imported goods and services except for the
main linepipe supply contract which would be financed by export/suppliers
credit and/or other commercial financing totalling US$27.5 mi:Llion. The
remainder of project costs would be financed from SNGPL's own resources
(US$61.0 million), local borrowing (US$49.7 million) and initial connection
payments by new consumers (US$15.6 million). Local borrow'ing would be from
Pakistani commercial banks and finance companies, with maturities of five to
eight years and a variable interest rate based on the local Bank rate (about
10%) plus 2.5%. The finalization of satisfactory co-financing arrangements
for the project would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).  The volume of co-financing required for the proposed
project can be accommodated within the ceilings for Pakistan's medium-term
external borrowing agreed with the IMF under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
program.
67.     The proposed Bank loan would be made to SNGPL with a guarantee from
GOP. The loan would be for 17 years, including three years' grace. The
interest risk and foreign exchange risk would be borne by SNGPL, which would
pay a guarantee fee to GOP equivalent to a mark-up of not less than 10% of
the interest rate on the loan.



-21-
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
68.     SNGPL was incorporated as a limited liability company in 1963 and
converted into a public limited company in 1964. The principal business of
the comnpany is the transmission, purification and distribution of natural gas
from the Sui and Meyal fields to industrial, com-mercial and residential
customers. In additioin, SNGPL's Projects Department carries out engineering
and construction activities for outside clients; this has been a significant
source of income in recent years. SNGPL has an authorized capital of PRs 400
million, of which PRs383 million is issued and paid up. The major stock-
holder is GOP, which owns directly or indirectly about 90% of the equity.
The stock held by the general public is quoted on the Lahore and Karachi
Stockl Exchanges. SNGPI. is governed by a Board of 13 Directors, including the
Managing Director who is the Chief Executive Officer. The senior management
consists of competent, well experienced Pakistani nationals.
69.     The fourth SNGPL project included general management training and
technical trahLihig in gas distribution and transmission. While the technical
and managerial capabilities of the staff have been progressively upgraded,
there are still deficient areas such as control and planning. The training
program would be continued under the proposed project.
70.     Financial Aspects.  SNGPL's financial performance and financial
position have been generally satisfactory. The company has a debt/equity
ratio of 65/35 and current ratio of 1.4.
71.     Financial covenants under the fourth SNGPL project required a rate of
return of at least 12% on revalued net fixed assets. -While SNGPL has
achieved the required rate of return, assets have only been partially
revalued to reflect exchange rate adjustments on foreign loans. Under the
proposed project SNGPL has agreed to fully revalue its assets to reflect
replacement cost and earn at least a 10% rate of return on these fully
revalued assets. This target is reasonable for a gas utility and will result
in a significant improvement in the company's income position compared to the
previous revaluation practice.
72.     The gas transmission companies purchase gas at the wellhead at the
producer price established by GO? plus an excise tax (of about US$0.30/MCF)
paid to the Provincial Government. The companies are allowed an operating
margin which is set by GOP to permit theii to recover their operating costs
and a fixed return on net assets.  The substantial difference between the
cost of producing and transmiitting gas and the selling price is captured for
the national budget through a development surcharge.
73.     SNGPL would annually prepare and submit to GOP and the Bank for their
review a five-year corporate plan, including SNGPL's proposed investment
program; a forecast of profits, the balance sheet and cash flow; and details
of pricinLg and financial policies (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



-22-
SNGPL's operating income would be maintained at a level to permit it to (i)
make a reasonable contribution towards its investment program from internally
generated funds and (ii) maintain a 10% rate of return on net fixed assets
revalued annually in accordance with appropriate valuation principles accept-
able to the Bank (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). SNGPL's
long-term gas supply contract with PPL for the supply of gas from the Sui
field will expire in the year 2000. Financial projections would therefore be
based on established and declining resources and the debt/equity ratio would
gradually be reduced from 70/30 during the construction period of the project
to 60/40 in FY88, progressively declining in suitable steps annually there-
after (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.     As mentioned previously (paragraph 51), gas demand management and
rationing will be necessary into the foreseeable future, with substantial
cuts in gas supplies to WAPDA for power generation. Under terms of its gas
supply contracts with WAPDA, SNGPL is liable for substantial penalty payments
for non-supply of gas. Since curtailment to WAPDA is mandated by Government
policy, the Government would ensure that SNGPL would not be penalized for
curtailment of supply to WAPDA and that future supply contracts would be on
an interruptable basis (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
75.     All major items of materials and equipment financed from the proceeds
of the Bank loan would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for the five compressor
units which, for reasons of standardization, can only be procured from one
supplier; the cost of these units would not exceed US$5.2 million. To com-
plete Phase I of the project by early 1984 (paragraph 64), it would be neces-
sary for SNGPL to award contracts for valves and fittings, coating and wrap-
ping materials, cathodic protection, telecommunication equipment and three
gas compressor units during the first half of 1983. Advance contracting in
an amount equivalent to US$18.0 million is therefore proposed, together with
retroactive financing for the above items in an amount not exceeding US$4.0
million for expenditures made after January 1, 1983.
76.     Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan will be made for the capi-
talized front-end fee and against 100% of (a) foreign expenditures for
materials and equipment required for the expansion of SNGPL's system (except
the linepipe), (b) expenditures for technical assistance and overseas train-
ing, and (c) the refunding of the Project Preparation advance. For locally
manufactured equipment, disbursements will be made against 100% of ex-factory
cost. All disbursements would be fully documented and the training costs
would be under prior approved training programs.  Disbursement of the Bank
loan is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.



-23-
Ecology and Safety
77.     The proposed project is an expansion of an existing gas transmission
and distribution system. The main transmission pipelines are in a right of
way owned by SNGPL.   In areas where the pipeline could be exposed to damage,
continuous supervision is maintained. The distribution network, extending
into cities and towns, is buried and protected against corrosion. SNGPL has
a 24-hour maintenance service and previous records confirn that the system is
operating satisfactorily with a low risk of major accidents.
78.     Hydrogen sulphide which is emitted from the purification plant is
burnt in a high flare stack away from the process units. The fenced plant is
located away from any residential area with-no significant concentration of
gases at ground level. The project would have certain environmental benefits
in that the increased use of natural gas, a clean burning fuel, would reduce
the use of more polluting fuels such as distillates and fuel oil.
Benefits and Risks
79.     The projected growth in energy consumption in Pakistan will result in
increasing oil imports unless domestic energy production is further expanded.
The proposed project would assist GOP to implement a rational medium-term gas
development plan and policy initiatives designed to ensure its timely
implementation. In the course of project preparation there have been impor-
tant changes in GOP policy with regard to development, allocation and pricing
of natural gas.
80.     The project is one component of a set of investments which would
reduce gas shortages in the north of the country by expanding production and
transmission capacity. Domestic gas supply would increase under the total
program by the equivalent of 155 MMCFD of Sui quality gas, generating gross
foreign exchange savings of approximately US$240 million per annum. This
additional gas would only partially alleviate current gas shortages; there
would therefore be no problem with marketing the gas. The economic rate of
return on the project is estimated at 60%. On the most conservative assump-
tion, where the cost of the marginal fuel substitute is reduced by 40%, the
return would still exceed 35%.
81.     The project would depend crucially on the timely availability of
additional gas from the Sui and Mari fields. Recent reservoir studies con-
firm with a high degree of confidence the producibility of the required gas.
Although there is always some reserves risk in petroleum projects, these
risks are acceptable. The economic analysis indicates that, even if produc-
tion were 25% less than planned, the economic rate of return would still
exceed 44%. The risk that construction of the Mari-Guddu pipeline and con-
version of the Guddu power station to alternative fuel might not be completed
in time to release Sui gas to SNGPL would be minimized by requiring, as
conditions of loan effectiveness, that satisfactory contractual arrangements



-2 4-
be finalized among the concerned parties. The economic analysis indicates
that, if gas deliveries were delayed for one year, the economiic rate of
return would still exceed 40%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Limited, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. The following would be
additional conditions of effectiveness: that (a) complementary co-financing
for the project, satisfactory to the Bank, has been finalized; (b) a gas
supply contract between the owners of t:he Mari field and WAPDA has been
executed; (c) an agreemernt between PPL and SNGPL for the supply of Sui gas
released from Guddu by mid-1985 has been executed; and (d) a supply contract
between PPL and SNGPL for additional Sui gas has been executed. Other Spe-
cial conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
83.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
May 24, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                       P-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL            803.9                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       130.0      300.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      132.4       190.6     209.2               448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0      60449.0   82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9       28.2               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      134.5
STATIOHARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0        75.2      99.2               158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4        248.9     316.9               355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3      46.5                36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.8        50.5      50.7                59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         3.2       2.8                 3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.3        47.4       43.6               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.3        19.9       16.0               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUICTION RATE              3.7         3.5        3.0                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..       6.07o              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0       102.0     101.0               108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.8         97.1      98.8/d              97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.1        59.8      62.87d              56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        23.3        20.1      19.97W              20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.4        21.5      17.8                10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.3         46.2      49.8                57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           161.5       143.0     125.5                89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0      29.0                32,9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..        77.0      60.0                70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ,,         4.0      17.0                22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       6.0                18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..        12.0      21.0                72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN           5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/e.f          3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8      13306.07f 10030.3/e.f          4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/e f          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                             506.8       648.1     712.97t!            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..     12478.5   11870.l7;            5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3
URBAN                               5.6         5.5
RURAL                               5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1         2.8/        .
URBAN                               3.1         2.7         ..
RURAL                               3.1         2.8         . 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        17.9         ..
URBAN                                          54.4/S       '
RURAL                                           4.9/1



-26-                                                            ANEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PAKISTRrfl:CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A9AGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIATEJ
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCORE
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE tb        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0               101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      31.0                 87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                 53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0       24.0                63.8                 41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0       8.0                 41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.4                 1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6         41.5      40.1                 37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8      18.7                 20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/1    24.0                 52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8/c                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *-          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..       13.7                16.4                 53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0yj      2.4                 3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0       57.0                70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      20.0                 15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                 38.5
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       47.2                51.8                  50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37T         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47T          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                  .         47.07?   122.0                111.5                155.1
41
ESTLMSATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.07?    58.0                   ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0/i    32.0                 43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0/i    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
tc   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; 1f Registered, not all practicing in the country; Ig 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /j 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-27-                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3
DzvMmrus OF iSMI.L nICATOS
oi:Although the dat   e   rw  from  -n e  genraly judged the mess  uthriaiv   ad reliable, it should also be noted tht they may no  he inte-
atioalyro.Wnrlbl  becaus  of the lack of standardised dfginition   an  tosrPts needby differet -tetino  in colleting the data.  The data ar. ns
thaee-  osfo1l.t  dnclheb orders of  egnitode. indicat  teodo. end thAracteios certin  ajor differnocesM...  ..te .ocontrios 
The r:fecro-   groops are (I) the  as  coni    ecp of the nubjeot  -otry and (2) a . tooty grop with toneht high- arerago incm   than the coastry groop
of thesbjct coo.tryi. (cpt tar    Hig.h intone   Oil is poeto" gr-P whm"Middle Iscone North Melon and Middle E.ni' In choon horao of stronger
oic-...toral affinitis.It_herfeenegro  dar  the avrge                        .r popoltiot enighted arithetio set  fnc each indi-- and shee   tly shot
najority at the... c tnirie  to a   op  da dat  for that  idcao. i-  rho coverge of co-trie- amog the isdicotore deprtda on the avaisbility of data
nod is rot cm   r., conio  _s  he %onroted in lltriteg avergs of on  indicator to another.  Th.a.. ergn  oe lny osefo1 in copaing the tae of
one indiot-ra      in          ho  .. cntry end referenc   grops.
AREA (thoonnd sq.ke.)                                                                            P.P.4ftio j-  Hospital Bed - tota.1 arbs, and   -1te  - Population (total.
Total - Tota  -orioetse  coprising lord teen and inad wanor; 1979 data.                            eban, nod enrol  dividedby their repective snb. of hospital beds
Agoicolto-l -E.stiat f-oro arlae  noed t.mporaily orperentip                                      sA_lbl  In pb,l and Private  geo.a  and oponia1ied hospitl1 andfee
orl crops. patre,        ka t and hitches ga-d-  or tc lie falo;1979 data.                    hbhilitatiancsos   Hospitals ace establishmets pemaetly staffed
by at Ist ..  so..  physi-o  ~tatblishest  providing peintiPo11cota
ts pg  AITA (1US$) - IN  per capita estiates at  -eret markt prices.. ca-                       dWlcaeamtt ic1nded.  ttlhsiaa   oee,ionohat
catdby noe  onerin .erod an Wol1d bob Atlas (1978-8i basis); 1960.                           and medical.. ceters net permnetly etffed by a physinio  (bnt by A
190   o   90dta.                                                                        medica-1      aat  noemidwife, et.) which offer is-potiont snoo
dasion and proid  a limited rage of msdioal farilitio.  Poe stasis-
iNERCt CONSUMPTION Pit CAPITA - A-ona  cosonPtins of  o-ria  enerY (neal                            tiosi psepo.... .eba  hospitals Include   w SIlopioipa1/gee-r1 haspitals.
end lignite. perroilta. ntorl1 gas and hydon-,  -ne-  nod geotherma  slot-                       and meal hopitola. ma-a  or  -ea  hospitals and medical sod materity
ltriity) In kilg-ams of coal  qoiv-i-t Per caPita; 1960. 1979,. ad 1979cntrs Sper Ioio-d hoopitalo ace lindad osly ade statl.
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adeinniom  pe" HoIal led - Total seber of ada.Losa  to or dischages
iro  hospitalsdivided by the nashe of beds.
POPULIATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
Total Popalatios, Mid-Ton  (thonsada) - do of Jnly 1; 1960. 1970, and 198f                   HouiJONS
daa                                                                                          Avrg  lo    f Hoehod ionn   e  hocahold) - toto. nehe, and  -.oI-
ira   oelo   (coronet of total) - toti  of arba  to totl.  popalarion;                  A-hooodcnit   fa  rn   fidvdonsh   he   iigqatr
dfferen  dfisitioo   of  rhan   -a  may affect com parbility of data                         and their main meals.  A bearda  r- lodger may orma  net ho iladd it
_logconrioo  19601, 170, nod 19Sf data.                                                     t     he.. boshold forsatsiclporpowes
Pooainiv year 2OOt - Ceret popoltios proJections ar  based  e 19ff                       her o       -.f prnspe  ro   I  all orha,tnodcoaoopedonntol
totl1 popo1ation by ago and nc nod their matality and fertility rates.                       dwIlltgs. repertively.  Dwellingeen-1ode tn-permaset  trnt-ne  and
Pco)eti-o parmeer  foe mortality  --e  comprise of threlelsno-                               om oid prs
ing life enpectacy at birth incre.oilg with cssy  pe  c-pti  incm                           cest   lcrcty(aet   fdelns  -ttl   ra,adma
leve. and felo life nes--ny stahiliniog st 77.0 5yearn   The porn                            C--erti-Ia dwellings   th electricity it ljivig qoater   o  ecetg
metre  for ferility ltar  also have thre  Ine-    aasin  doclier in                          ci toa. t  o1rhan,. od  o-I dwellings repectively.
icrtilityonceeldlng to Incom   1-vo  nod past fosIly pleaning performnc.
ech coontry is iboc assigned on  ofthese nIne  -ob=i.aon  of morftaiY                  EDUCATION
end fetlity  trends for projection p-rpose.                                                Adjonted tEn..mes-  Rotion
Stati_nrypoolrln- I.     totionar  population there is so.growh sis.o                          Priney school - total, sale and femal  - iron  total, male and femlo.i'
the hieth rote is  qo   to rho deeth rote, and also the ego strctore r--onl-en  of all ages as the primary   -o  an percentges of resPeciv
naioo cean.This is achievd only after foninliYrae  decline to                                  primary shool-age ppylatios.s; sosaly itt1odas children aged 6-1l
tho repl-onent leve  c,  toittset  oprodootico rats, when each  eso-tiosyer  hat.b   adjonted f or differet lengths of primary edaction; for
of.   n  roplace  iite I nacly .  The starineary population oto wa                             _ontis  with an-l-osa  edactio  enrllen  nay naced 1ff pocet
rntimotrd on the hasio of the projctd characteristics cf the populationsince non  popil  are hbow or above rho official  cho1 Eg.
In  heyear 20ff. and rho rate  fdecline of ferttility rate to repIlet-                       Oreonday schol - trtol, male nd femal  - oMpnrd as abov; secon dar
senleel                                                                                      ndctioereqlreet leas.t fEat yese  of sprov-d primary ita -te              o;
Trar  tcticanry popolation in coahed - Th. yea  whe  stotienary popalatirn                       provides geeal octonl  or=tace  trnin  itg  lootroion   for pnpi1s
sian  11  heeco-hd.                                                                            asealy of 12 to 17 pFars of age;toneepondeoc.. .eco  ore generally
Popalation nenniry                                                        enc~~~~~loded.
Poe s.  Ms     id-year popootion Per aqos Ailosere  (1ff hoctrs) of                          Vocational enrelseo-t (reroent ofVattdr) - VcaionlInttoi
_tonlcr0  19ff, 1970 ned 1979 data.                                                          isolade techirol, tadoetriel, or other program  which operate   dpend-
Poe n. be. aniatrimd - Compted as abov  f.olarialorl  ad                                       ettly er an dapeetnts of eoccndny inotitotti-n..
ony;  90   90ad17  data                                                                    Ppil-reaherrorio   i- rei     re   ndstodary - Toti  -tdat  -nr-lo   i
Pocoa.tlco Ace Olltroor  (percent) - Childre  (0-i4 yeses.). ecekin-aSe (tOpimary and secodary 1eoe diided by ta _r  of teacher  is the
64 Years), and retired (65 Yanes andoe)a  p-enetages of aid-y-n  popo-                          --repsding 1-vin.
lotion; 1960. 1970, and 19ff dete.                               ~Adltaliteracy rate iper...n) - Literte adIne (able to read and write)
%-Poott- Gleoth tote (per...ct)    total  A-Ana  growh eate  of ltota  aId-                     naecnaeo    iio tpptto   gd1   ec   n   vr
yoerp ipno   I_o for 15-6       _ 19070, ned 1970-ff.
Pnpolltior, io-rh Rtot  (pecet) - trbs   An--a  growh eaten of nehes  .pop-                  CONStPTION
lati_s  Ie 1950-60, 1960-70, otd 1970-B0.                                                    Passen:ger or  (per theotnod popultion) - Pssegsr one  compris  motor
Conda north Mtot  (per thac__d) _A- Ana  live hiths per th.....d of mid-yea                      cas      _eaIn .ls  than eight persns  tooIda- nabsace., he-re  nod
poplto;1960, 1970, od100date,                                                                  m~ill tory vehicle..
Clnd  Deeth tote (poe thonsand) - Aneva1 deaths per thoneatd  of aid-year                      Hdi. RHo.ei... (Per ibonsand pp to)-All types of tenivees for radio
Cpopoloti-o; 19ff, 1970, and 1900 dora.                                                        hbc-d-ets to genra  pabl pe  thoa_ad of pepoIlains; enldnean
frosa topoodntionRt H o- Arrge sombre of danghtors o  oa   ill bea  in                           licenoed  _clesre is  _otnrio  and In year  when.        gitero       f radio
her   -1ma  reprodotive perio  if oh. -op-ricet .re.ost ago-specifito fe-                      sets,asI  effctdta for recet yearn may nor be comparable slat
tliy   on; ....nlly fiv-y-o  average  ending is 1960, 1970, and 19ff.                    motr       -tinaelbed~ licnig
PonilbyiPloenlog - Acceptors, Annea  (than-asd)t- Anna   sas-           facetr                 TV R-civrs(,errthoso   ooeln   TVroeva for broado.s tot
ci  irt-cotec  dece    drnptsfosIoo  famIly plning. prga.                                   oea  phi  prtooadppoois  eone  oslcansd TV reeler
PselyPlsnig    Ins(entan  of nariod wmn    Prcestage. of marndI                                    tcasies and in Yrre_ he  feitoinn  TV eswsI   ffiect
woma  of childherIg age(15-44 yearo) uhnon  bhiro-coteol  devices to                          eespape  Ciroa.lato   (Pertnat  rpltion   - tnws the aveag  oe-
all mariedi wome   10  on  ogogr-p.                                                             -oloIon of "dailygenerl Intres  newpaper", defined anaperiodica
Ptobioino   evte  pesm-tily to re-ndingig-sa  sees.  ft io ..ossidard
POOD AHD NUTRITION                                                                                  tohb diy   fitapasa   es  ft   ie       ek
aden of rood.Pndortion co   -tops  (969-71-190) - InAne of per caita  -sIa                     Cinem  A..1na A-ed-o  roe Caito per fear - Hosed on the s,t- ef
prodoction of all fond  -onodiie-   Pe-d-oios.  ....roes   mad. .. od and                      tichors sold dnr iog the pear, incldiog adIssions. to driv-In cionma
Is on  aledar yea  basIn.  C-nditics cove  pri-oy goods(e.g.f magate                           and  eb ilo omits..
inte.  of negne  whith ar  sdible nod contain notrista  (e.g. coffee and
ten are_ noldsd).  Aggoegn-  poodnotin  of eah  -osoty is b-ase  onLABsR PORCE
.ationl averag  prod...r pric  weights; 1961-65. 1970. and 19ff dota.                        Total LAbor Porte (the...ode) - Ecosonlcolly active perone. In1iding
Prcytspply of celo_lee (percet o   enrnn    Compoted f eon                               need forces. on  anelysd hot. -1cdiegh ..aotvs,atdets.ec.
enegyoqivlet  f se  food eappl iesaf_iobl  is nootry Per caita                            co Eieppatonfalags DfItos In_ vas  cooi_tsne
per day.  OA-ilbhlr sappliesoprs  domestic prod_tion, imparts le                               sot comporble; 1960. 1970 and 19ff dato.
c_po_t. and lb-,g,  in scoch.  INs spplies entlde anima  food, neds,                           PemIn (poret) - creat  labor forc  as percetage of toa  labo  force.
q_cosities o_ed In food p-oceeing, and losses in diotribotis.  Reqnice-                        AgricIlgr  (pecant) - Lahr fo          infr ing  f-retry. hosting and
seers. wereestimated by PAD based on  hbyeiolgi-ol seds f. ornoma  nt-                           fishng a  pretafo of total lborfrte  1960. 1970 and 1900 ds.-
*                           cIt  an _  eolth ce-odoriog onvico-ecl te-peotrs  body weights, age                            Iodnatry (percen.t) -"lbor forc  In w.inig.  esrrin                 natrs
nod se  distelbotis  ti popltno   s   llowio  I0 percent fo  waste 05ad electricity,etrad gtspreonoo   oa  l rfre
bosochold level; 1961 -65, 1070 and 1977 data.                                                   19ff, 1970 and 19Sf data.
Per capito n_rply  fi PMosin (I -wpr day)    P               -tncnent of pe  onpita            Potloiiption tot  (proco -. total, male, and femal  - Participation or
os  spply nf feod pel a.(NtsopY Lo  rdI  defind a  aboe.  to-                               activity rates ore       pted as total, mole, nod female labor forten
qolroos0o iltft  1   -ooctesl eatobinhed'byfUSDA provide for eli'i                            pe-cetgfe  nf total, m1lr nod femal  popletien of all ages  -oprtivoly;
ollowat..t of 60 groa  of ltos1 perseIn pee dy nd 20 gees  of animal  td                       1960, 1970,..sd 19Sf data.  These ao banod on ILOn porticipation care
pos  tI.l of  hich 10 gSto she1d he onima l prtein.  These stood-rfetn agnn eteotne of ehe population, and 1eg time tred.  A
ordo  r lowert1 theobe o f 75 iros  of to tal proteIn asd 23 S-am    f                        few etimatsoe iro  notional-,ora
natal pootel  on  n  voo   for the   eed,proosd by FAO in the Third                          tonmo  eedenc y Hoti  - Hotin  fppltinadee 15 end 65 andoe
.ond Pood Sorcy;  6191-6, 1970 od .197da11:to.                                                 to the  tota  labor forte.
PrcptprteI  sopp." Peo anmal      ndpIs.    Protnie snpply of food de-
rove f1 ro   s l  end pulses In groa  per doy; 1961-65. 0970 ned 1977 data.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (anes 1-i)_tooth Rtote(per theomand) - Annea  deahs per tbhoaod in                          ceag   fPiat   noe(borb It cooh and kInd  - Received by richoet
ngc geon  I-  yas.schildno It tbis age grop; for  -s  develping co-                            1pretrichest                 P 2 ..prcet. pooroot 20 Pe-nt, ad poorest 40 portent
cries dota do-i-ed -io   if  tsblee; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dera.                                 of ho...oho1ds.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGtI GROUPS
Life Eoocta...y -ci leth Inyors) - Average osher of ynara of life re-iion                      The fo11oelogesias amvey apprtimato  - -ne  of povety levels
osbirth; 1960. 1970 and 1900 dote.                                                           and sh.ald he istoeprotod with  -oeide-ohi  cannon
aces tntoeW-o  (P.cea  ef possis      otl   hntn srl-na                                    n tiesolly adeqomn  diet pin  essen..tial ee-fned reqoicemests In ens
ho .iPeopl  (ltotl. sbo, ned r..-I) with rescahs  ccsssosfe                               afiordebls
wter ..,PpIy "todntraedeefr  waeso   ntetdht neetanioted                                    Ecimated Relative l'ovty Inom  lael (U0$ percaita) - echos sad enrl1
wato-.-has that icon pentsrtd bsholn, springs. and sanisery wel) as                            nRol relaive povety  InoelvlI   n-thir  of avege pee o-pit.
pscnae   f thiae. repective peptlti-ns   Is an oban area apb111`                        peros    inom   of the e-atry.  tr=    leve  Is derived fro  the   -1te
fowetoino  stadpost 1ooted set mor  than 2ff masses form e hao maY be                          leve  with udjomimet Per higher cost of living In  ehan ara..
ons ided no bend-ti         -rneAble no-n  of that h..-e.  In cosice                         etimatsd P.p.lnetes selo    slnePvrytemlvlipea)-ahs
teanoaim  acns  osl  ily that the h-noif.  rmtrso   h  homheld                         and   Pal     - Pecet of poultia  (urba   a   oa)seseaal
do mat hov  t  spod a disp-peeti-nte pet of the day  le fetehiog the
hArass sfaEesaWDiopoei  eecntofennlti) - total. oran  sdtes] 
eseof pepe  stol  urban, an  mclsevd by en-ta disposal as
ps-etage  of their esptie-v  popaiet s.  herto disposal may  -Inid
the  nl_mta   andidisposa, with or winhat  ssis   f ban   -at
no twns-ete- by utscr-hn  nynt-m  se the  -n  ef Pit prtiss- ad sii-
PeneiserPhsiofan - P.p.Latisa divided by sober  f p-atiatg physi-                                                            Eema-ia sad Racia  Hots DSivimi
olasa .-eafifd fro  a mdical  aheo1 an  ni-erity len.                                                                         f.oNomi  Analysis an  Peejatios Departet
Poelaio  Fe  Nueis  see  - PpoLisco   dieidsd by  ."C of pratisiag                                                                             lay lINl
mis sad femal  gette             P.aa.aastn  noe,praitol  oe  n
earaing asai.i-rs



--28-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                  1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices              31.68     100.0                      3.5               6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment          5.14      16.2                    -5.5                5.4          11.9
Gross National Saving              3.70      11.7                    -2.1                8.2           8.0
Current Account Balance          -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                      -3.48     -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added          Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    x    US$ million    x    US$ million    %
Agriculture                       7,825      29         13.5      51          580        58
Industry                         6,827       26          5.2      20        1,313      131
Services                        12,053       45          7.9      29        1,526      152
Total/Average                 26,705      100         26.6     100        1,004      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                              Central Government
(Rs billion)            I of GDP               (Rs billion)            % of GDP
1981/82      1981/82   1977/78-1981-82         1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                   51.2          15.9           15.8               39.0          12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures              44.4          13.8           14.1               34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             6.8          2.1            1.7                4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures               27.0           8.4            9.3               21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)          6.3           2.0            2.8                6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                        33.1      41.6     51.7      63.7     76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)           17.5      22.7     29.5      34.3     43.1      48.1     54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)        19.7      23.1     30.1      35.7     42.7      50.6     58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as 1 GDP               29.5      31.5     34.6      36.7     39.0      38.3     37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=100)         211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                        23.6       8.6     11.3       6.3       6.7      9.3      13.3     11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)           21.2      29.4     18.8      16.6     25.6      11.6      12.5     10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)        26.3      17.3     30.3      18.6     19.6      18.5      16.0     20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-29-
Page 5
,ALAEcE 5P P7 *RkTS
(U     llion)                                  NESRC ADISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/73  l979/7y  1979/G0  1980/61 la  1981/82                                        US$ million          J
Exports of Goode, IPfS             1,406    1,6J.    2410,    2,955    3,461             2,966        Raw Cotton                      260.5           11.5
Imports of Cooda, NFl             _2,87    3,297   _4  PS          709        466        6,613        Cotton Yarn                      181.3           8.0
Cotton Clothn                   230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit   -)        -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847        Rice                            382.7           17.4
All Other Commodities         1,196.9           52.9
Intereet Paymnts                    -172      -163      -261      -285      -357          -453          Total                       2,261.8          100.0
Workere' Resittanceo                  578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097            2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15        62      134        151       274          345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                         .-_        ..        ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account        -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991       -1 ,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Inveztment              ,         .          .        ..        .. -         ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e                   .
Net MLT Borrouing
Disbursements                      961       841       813    1,134        956        1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed          8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122      -235      -310      -516          -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 If
Sub-Tatal                          786       719       57i       324       440           610                                                  Percentge
Trensactionz uith IMFNL                44        41      -14         78      315           358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            12.2
Other Items n.el. /c                   24       163      238       600        527          364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase ir. Reserves (-)            198      -322       308      -362      -291           198          Total                                       12.2
GroeS ReServes (yeaTr and)d           372       694       386       748    3 ,039          841        l:NDIDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1961) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                    1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8       1.8           1.8        Outstanding and Diabursed              310.1   903.8
Undisbureed                             32.1   505r3
Outstaniding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Naterials
Petroleum Imports                    413       497       539    1,237    1,602           1,683
Petroleum Exports                     27        63        61        178       160          185
Rate of Exchange
Thlrough Nay 11, 1972    Iay 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973          a     ,         n  7, 1982       January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
U0$ - As 4.7619                US5 = Rs 11.00                    056   Re 9.90                       'JS$ - Rs 11.46
Rol - US$O0.2100               Rel = 0S$0.0909                  REel - IS$0.1010                      Rs  = 0.087
/a  Governaent estimate.
77; Including Truat F;nd.
77  Including net short-term borrouing and errors end omila->s
T7  Foreign exchange amd SDR holdings of the State Bank.
71i  Private debt is negligible.
7f  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services ang gorker's reaittencee;
not including stort-term or IEF changea.
ise January 8, 1932, value of rupee le being maugesgd wfth refsr:nce to a
nIted basee-t of currenciao.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                    (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                               Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Eighty-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a    686.7  32.0    851.3/e
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    6.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply              --               26.6    3.3
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        --               14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0      --       8.1
1372)      1977   Railways                                35.0             --      0.4
684 )     1977   Railways                                 --               25.0    0.2
678        1977   Third Education                         --               15.0    5.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development          --                3.0    1.2
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation          --               70.0   68.4
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                         --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    6.9
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development              --               30.0    0.2
877        1979   Salinity Control & Redl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   57.9
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    7.6
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension             --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP IV)   --                  30.0    3.7
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                       --               45.0   30.5
974        1980   Third Highway                           --               50.0   35.8
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --              40.0   10.1
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                      --               25.0   24.6
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   29.2
11577w    1981   Grain Storage                            --               32.0   31.7
1158/d    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   36.2
1186/d    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   27.5
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                40.0             --     40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                   60.0             --      2.1
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                --     37.7
1239/b /d 1932   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   40.0
1243/b /d 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --               14.0   14.0
1256Jd    1982   Technical Assistance                     --                7.0    6.4
1278/d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   49.9
2218/b    1983   Refinery Engineering Project              12.0            --      12.0
Total7                                                   872.2  42.0  1,609.1  638.7
of which has been repaid                               461.8   0.6       32.8
Total now outstanding                                    410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                         410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Total undisbursed                                         92.3   8.1    538.3  638.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7-  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the tine of negotiation.
Disbursed amounts are computed at the market rate on dates of
disbursements.
|e  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAY (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing               --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980     Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.58    0.84      20.42
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92        3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.38        2.78
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    1.82       30.82
19<30    Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags              1.78     --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 4.05               4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        88.65    1.55       90.20
Total Gross Commitments                    171.76   11.38    183.14
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                123.72    1.02    124.74
Total Commitments Now lleld by IFC          48.04   10.36       58.40
lTndisbursed (includini participants)     103.43    0.34    103.77



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10,
1978; Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983; construction oE a second power plant
with four units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have been disbursed;
the Bank continues to adminlister the Tarbela Development Fund.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of Mlarch 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Of the four processing plants in the project, oi- has been completed,
one should be operational within a few months, and the remaining two require
reconstruction of defective portions of buildings before equipment can be
installed. Field activities have been satisfactory in the Punjab but slow in
Sind.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
All major works have been contracted but construction hold-ups have
caused delays in project completion. Detailed action plans to improve
operational and financial performance have recently been agreed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, andl the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to initial
delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties in
installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys and
extension services are proceeding satisfactorily.  Additional equipment is
being procured to improve the rate of collector and lateral drain
installation.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Following reformulation of the project in June 1982, project progress
is now encouraging. Work on remodeling and expanding the Lahore Milk Plant
is now on schedule aad the contractor's site engisneer expects to commission
the plant by September 1983. Construction and equipping the Punjab Livestock
Development Board (PLDB) training center is coiaplete; teaching staff are in
place and training courses for Village Livestock Association members and PLDB
extension staff are scheduled to start soon.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effectiv7e Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum
improvements have been satisfactorily carried out, the revised staff
development and expert services programs are nearly completed and almost all
civil works and equipment procurement have been completed. Construction of
agricultural training institutes at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan is now
progressing in full swing. At Sind Agricultural University, construction is
behind by about one year due to initial delays in appointment of project
implementation staff. However, no problems are foreseen in completing all
civil works before the closing date.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and the lack of a decision on upgrading field
assistants have caused implementation problems. While the vegetable
seed, maize production, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily, there has been little progress
with the fodder/forage component.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule,
significant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems.  Contracts have been
awarded for construction of main canals anad for supply of electrification
equipment for transmission lines.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of- January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inventory and the
pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on the basis of a
forest resource assessment study, the immediate development of an
economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite recent progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work.
Implementation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages have
been strengthened and are proceeding well. The project staff has been given
a special allowance, and steps are being taken to recruit consultants.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and other
problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is assisting
WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in preparing
subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about two years
behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the final designs
and tender documents for the restructured project. Some contracts have been
awarded.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a comprehensive
proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected to be completed
shortly.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Critical senior staff has been recruited, implementation of the T&V
extension system started, and consultants have been appointed to assist in
qualitative improvement of field extension and adaptive research.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Funds for farm mechanization are fully disbursed, and the funds for
diversified lending should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the agricultural engineering training component in the
provinces of the Punjab and NWFP, funded solely by IFAD, has started but is
about 18 months behind schedule. For this component, the IFAD closing date
has been extended to June 30, 1985.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Due to some initial delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is one year behind schedule.  Procurement and construction
targets for substations and transmission lines are progressing at a good
pace.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical
assistance to two provincial governments to tlpmrove road maintenance.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 M4illion Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
As of April 1983 US$37 million had been authorized Eor 29
sub-projects, with US$30 million disbursed. PICIC's p,rtfolio problems
continue although rescheduling efforts are underway and collections during
1982 exceeded anticipated targets.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project has made good progress in equipment procurement, final
designs for rehabilitation of existing centers and construction of new
centers, especially in the Punjab. A large-scale instructor training
program is underway and skill standards for a number of trades have been
approved by the National Training Board. The National Training Board Fund,
the Provincial Training Boards and the National Training Development
Institute have been established, although staff appointments have been slow.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
To date, some 20% of the Credit has been committed and about 5%
disbursed. Construction of the service centers is aearing completion, with
expected operation in May/June 1983.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effectiv,e Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfactorily
although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff, and in
making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 ltillion Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, :[981;
Effective Date: April 29, 1982; Closing lDate:
December 31, 1986
The construction of an office/laboratory block and a hostel at the
NatiLonal Agricultural Research Centre is scheduled for completion in July
1983. Designs for the provincial headquarters building have been prepared.
The contract for training and technical assistance has been negotiated with
FAO but not finalized.  New research programs have now been started under
the project.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is basically on schedule, with physical achievements
generally in line with appraisal targets.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
June 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Utilization of funds is progressing satisfactorily. To date, a total
of 47% of the proceeds have been committed and just under 10% disbursed.
Loan No. 2122          Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 14, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
All cofinancing arrangements have been finalized.  The ADB loan was
declared effective in March 1983 and the KfW loan should be signed shortly.
Procurement actions are underway.
Loan No. 2166          Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan is almost fully disbursed.
or             Loan No. 2172          Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on most components has been satisfactory. Hiring of
consultants and procurement is generally on schedule. The Multan
rehabilitation component has suffered some delay because of technical
difficulties.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Credit No. 1243        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit
(US$14 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: January 5, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Four minor irrigation schemes have been prepared to detailed
engineering level and actions are being expedited to tenider works and
initiate construction activities. The remaining schemes are
slightly behind schedule. After some initial delays, project staff and
consultants are being mobilized. Procurement of vehicles and equipment is
also underway.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
SeptembFer 9, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Disbursements are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical implementation of the project has started and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2218          Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
US$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



39                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
FIFTH SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two years
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of first
mission to consider project:
August 1980; January 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 13, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 30, 1983
Section II:      Special Bank Imiplementation Actions
X                             None



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  Government to prepare and update annually a medium term
rolling gas development and utilization plan (paragraph
53);
(b)  SNGPL will not make significant changes in existing
allocation of gas or allocate newly *liscovered gas until
the results of the study to determine the optimum
allocation of gas to the highest value users becomes
available (paragraph 54);
(c)  Government to ensure that suitable arrangements are made
for the conversion of Guddu I and II units and the
construlction of the Mari-Guddu pipeline (paragraph 62);
and
(d) SNGPL to prepare and update annually a medium term
rolling investment plan (paragraph 73).
The following would be additional conditions of effective-
ness:
(i)  a supply contract between PPL and SNGPL for additional
Sui gas has been executed (paragraph 61);
(ii)  a gas supply contract between the owners of Mari and
WAPDA has been executied (paragraph 61);
(iii)  an agreement between PPL and SNGPL for the supply of
Sui gas released from Guddu has been executed (paragraph
62); and
(iv)  complementary co-financing for the project has been
finalized (paragraph 66).



IBRO 16906R
62~~~~~~  ~~~~.6                                       .MAY 19831
f  I          P~~~~~~~~~AKISTAN                     U  S   
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LTD. PROJECT Y                             & r  CHINA
NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SYSTEMS 
Not-1l gas aipdelrs 
PrDposnd nariua gas pipcrics ,                                36.
0N tirr  can                             t an     1-r- _n  , 
I, c I-'s                     ,
Fell len plants
t coqen Phosphates~ 
U  S 0Corp eccc
-'@ UndPrI nshcrrn       .-    P r Ce   -aPe,i    AND  (
rOans ,                            T Pc y 5  2     E E r,'HAW  NA A3 D  KASH M I R -
1'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r,,  C
ISLAMIC~~ljiny TEP  '-4t'A 1                                  boTh'qb o     ;2 
-- - P, < t < -o,ircia c'nT
g r-r,7 D ~~~~~/          a          rdd   I  rA       ..... ars /'rd d 
f2-                    4   
IRAN  ~~~H   GA                    ZIN
5    /    A  KHA/PPL'R  C OMETAERS Fl,
ISLAMIC RESe         An  Tre-p- /           -LA



k
Or



T.kh, B., -                    17-            \             4
P A K I STAN                                         P _         N.ho                - p,
SUI NORTHERN                                 CC-3
GAS   PIPELINES   LTD.  PROJECT  V                         3xl130RHP            -----------                             M BA
TRANSMISSION  SYSTEM  OF                                             Iaa-lp,d-
JA M AIU
SUI NORTHERN  GAS PIPELINES  LTD.
PROJECT COMPONENTS          T--- FC-I
Ph- IT
33                     Ca..p.esss.oo  Fo,,l;i;es g{ \r< ,3
Phose U
IL P-ol-sal,o- Book                                    >.T   DadkI,aI
EXISTING TRANSMIRSSlO5ON SYSTEM              I|- -l
0C =     Ie,o, 92                                      :a19T                                            ,
ps~           ~ P,'eI,nes                                      ___
Rod
----l~~~~~~~~~-
FAC-2 
E4 3800 bIP 
F;;IRIFICATION
\\   Sui  %d          /        /                                         i                                                Jenenicrpunnes~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5
---------- /  /V   D   g/Z        >            Khon/                                                                                         _      _ 5RCH
g.09    [A/,  ~~~Sad,4abad                                         .4l T                                            (iiANTAP 
t ,  \                                      |                                         N  2s ¢ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFG;HA.ISTADI  t
5K    r                           /                 \_                                 2L, 66   32  _0            -
Rh   P6                         -j                        21                                                   2                       2221.  



