Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14157
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3437-PE)
AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN          4
(LOAN 3452-PE)
MARCH 29, 1995
Country Operations I Division
Country Department III
l              Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1994)
Currency Unit         =      Nuevo Sol (S/.)
US$1.00               =      S/.2.17
S/.1.00               =      US$ 0.46
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U. S. A
Office of Director-General                                                       March 29, 1995
Operations Evaluat'on
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru
Trade Policy Reform Loan (Loan 3437-PE)
and Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3452-PE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on two loans to Peru-Trade Policy Reform Loan
(Loan 3437-PE) and Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3452-PE)-prepared by the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The Bank's Board of Directors approved in May 1991 a new policy of "Additional Support for
Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears." Under this new policy a Trade Policy
Reform Loan to Peru in the amount of US$300 million was approved on February 4, 1992 and a
Structural Adjustment Loan in the amount of US$300 million was approved on March 26, 1992. At
the end of the performance period-December 1992-the loans were signed and they became effective
and were disbursed on March 18, 1993 as part of an arrears clearance operation. Both loans supported
a far-reaching program of macroeconomic stabilization, structural adjustment and trade reform as well
as an external financing plan for Peru.
The PCR describes the well designed and comprehensive programs and the remarkable
performance of the Government in meeting its commitments under the loan agreement. All 67
conditions in the two loans were met satisfactorily. This success was largely due to the firm belief of
the Government in the soundness of the program and in the perceived need to act promptly, firmly and
in agreement with the external sources of finance.
Based on the analysis in the PCR, the outcome of both projects is rated as satisfactory both in
terms of sustaining and extending Peru's economic reform program and in terms of effecting a debt
workout for the country and reintegrating it to the international financial community. Institutional
development is rated as substantial. Sustainability is rated as likely given the degree of commitment of
the Government to the program. Long term sustainability is also likely, but ultimately will depend on
the political and financial support which it continues to receive from the Government.
An audit is planned.                                      JJ , J
Francisco  guii-Sacasa
Acting Director General
Attachment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their omdial duties. Its contents
mav not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.






Project Complation Report: TPRL and SAL
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN (LOAN 3437-PE)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3452-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                      ................................ .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY    ..ii
PART I: THE PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                         1
I. Project Identity .1
II. Introduction.                                                            1
III.   Policy Reform: The Historical Background.                             3
IV. The Debt Workout for Peru.                                               4
V. The Two Projects.                                                         7
The Structure of the Loans.                                     7
Stabilization and the Structural Adjustment Program             8
The Trade Reform Program .10
The External Financing Plan .14
VI.   Implementing and Monitoring the Loans  ................                16
The  Borrower   ............................                   16
Project Monitoring .........................                   17
Disbursement ........          ....................            17
The Arrears Clearance Process  .................               18
VII.  Conclusions    .      ...............................                  18
Issues in Project Design and Preparation ....   ........       19
The Structural Adjustment Loan ......       ...........        22
The Trade Policy Reform Loan  ......        ...........        23



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Pa-eNo.
References                     ................................                           25
Annex 1: Trade Policy Reform Loan: Policy Matrix .................                        27
Annex 2: Structural Adjustment Loan: Policy Matrix  ................                      31
Annex 3: The Structural Adjustment Loan  .......................                          42
Historical and Economic Context .....................                      42
The Adjustment Program  ..........................                         45
Preparation and Design of the SAL  ...................                     49
Program Results ...............................                            53
Overall Evaluation ..............................                          63
Sustainability   ................................                          66
Conclusions and Lessons from the SAL .................                     67
Annex 4: The Trade Policy Reform Loan  ........................                           69
Trade Policy Reform and the Loan ....................                      69
Implementation of the Reforms ......................                       71
Recent Developments in Foreign Trade .................                     77
Conclusions    ................................                            79
PART Il: THE PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   81
I.     Introduction     ................................                           81
II.    Performance of the Bank ..........            ................              81
Trade Sector   .............................                               82
Structural Adjustment ............................                         83
III.   Performance of the Borrower .......            ................             83
IV.   Trade Policy Reform Loan Objectives .....             .............          83
a. Trade Policy .............................   83
b. INDECOPI .............................  85



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
c. Customs Reform   .............................                          85
d. Ports         ................................                           86
e. Tariff Surcharges .87
f. ENCI (National Input Marketing Company) .87
g. ECASA (Rice Marketing Company) .87
V.    Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan .88
VI. Lessons Learned .90
VII.  Bank and Borrower Relations During Loan Implementation                       91
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ......................                                92
Trade Policy Reform Loan .........................                         92
Structural Adjustment Loan  ........................                       94






Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               i
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN (LOAN 3437-PE)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3452-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the US$300 million Trade Policy
Reform Loan and the US$300 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of
Peru. The Board approved the Trade Policy Reforrn Loan on February 4, 1992, and the
SAL on March 26, 1992. At the end of the performance period -- December 1992 -- the
parties signed the loans. The loans became effective and were disbursed on March 18, 1993
as part of an arrears clearance operation.
2.    The Japanese Grant Facility and the German Company for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ) provided technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of the SAL.
3.    Geoffrey Shepherd was task manager of the Trade Policy Reform Loan and Valeriano
Garcia task manager of the Structural Adjustment Loan. Armeane Choksi was the Director
and Demetris Papageorgiou the Division Chief responsible for the two loans.
4.    Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by Geoffrey Shepherd and Valeriano
Garcia. Michael Fabricius (summer intern) provided assistance on the historical record of
the workout. Annex 3 was prepared by Valeriano Garcia, with the assistance of Jorge
Canales (consultant), and Annex 4 by Geoffrey Shepherd. This PCR is based on the
President's Reports for the two loans (Reports No. P-5666-PE and P-5714-PE), information
gathered during supervision missions and collected through a monitoring unit in Peru, and
other cited documents.






Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN (LOAN 3437-PE)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3452-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    After three decades of increasing interventionism and instability in economic policy,
Perui had reached a state of virtual economic collapse and hyper-inflation by 1990. From
1985 it had begun to repudiate the servicing of its foreign debts, and in 1987 the Bank placed
Peru on "non-accrual" status.
2.   In 1990, a new Administration, under President Alberto Fujimori, introduced a
radical "shock" program to control prices, limit the role of the state, and promote market-
oriented structural reforms. The Administration also sought to mend its ties with the
international financial community, including the World Bank. To this end and following
discussions with the Bank, it resumed the servicing of its current debt to the Bank in October
1990.
3.    With the Peruvian case in mind, the Bank's Board approved in May 1991 a new
policy of Additional Supportfor Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears
(R91-70). The policy would assist strong-performing countries with large and protracted
arrears to the Bank in mobilizing sufficient resources to clear their arrears and to support a
sustainable growth-oriented adjustment program over the medium term. The new Workout
Program enabled loans to be presented to the Board during a "perfornance period" but not
disbursed. Once the country had cleared its arrears at the end of this period, loans could be
signed and made effective and the accumulated disbursements released. The Workout
Program, analogous to the IMF's Rights Accumulation Program (RAP), required four
conditions: (a) an external financing plan agreed with the country; (b) an IMF-supported
stabilization program; (c) a Bank-supported adjustment program; and (d) continued payment
of current debt service to the Bank. The adjustment program should result in Bank
disbursements at least sufficient to clear arrears to the Bank. However, the signing,
effectiveness, and disbursement of these loans would not take place until arrears to the Bank
had been fully cleared.
4.    This report covers two loans to Pern, a Trade Policy Reform Loan, presented to the
Board in February 1992, and a Structural Adjustment Loan, presented to the Board in March
1992. The two loans, along with a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, were part of a Bank
program to effect a debt workout for Peru and thereby contribute to reestablishing a normal
operational relationship between the Bank and Peru and to help the country return to the
international financial community. The three loans were among the first projects presented



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL              iii
to the Board (in February and March of 1992) under the Bank-'s new Workout ipolic). Both
loans supported a drastic program of macroeconomic stabilization and an external financing
plan for Pern. The first loan also supported a Peruvian program of rapid and far-reaching
trade reform, while the second supported deep structural reforms in several areas, as well as
a social program.
Objectives
5.    Under a Rights Accumulation Program agreed with the IMF, a macroeconomic
stabilization program for 1991 and 1992 set budgetary targets that were to be achieved
through higher taxes, better tax administration, expenditure restraint, and monetary controls.
6.    An external financing plan for 1991 and 1992 was agreed between the Peruvian
Government and a Support Group consisting of the international financial institutions and
major bilateral donors. The plan envisaged that rescheduling Peru's public debt (mostly
through the Paris Club) and a continued moratorium on private medium- and long-term debt
would cover most of the country's financing requirements. In addition, the IDB would
resume lending (following Peru's clearance of its arrears to that institution) as soon as
possible, and the Bank and the IMF would resume operations following arrears clearance and
at the end of a "performance period", in December 1992. Finally, a Support Group of
bilateral donors pledged to provide additional balance-of-payments support in 1991 and 1992.
7.    In terms of sectoral conditionality relating to structural adjustment, the SAL
undertook to recognize the major structural reformns taken between August 1990 and
December 1991 in: macroeconomic policy; the fiscal sector; the social sector; privatization;
agriculture; labor; and social security. A total of 45 sectoral conditions covered the
maintenance of current reforms (24 conditions) and measures for further reform (21
conditions).
8.    In terms of sectoral conditionality relating to trade policy reform, the Trade Policy
Reform Loan undertook to recognize the major measures taken between August 1990 and
September 1991 and comprising: a reduction in tariff protection; the elimination of most
non-tariff barriers; the elimination of export subsidies and improvement in schemes allowing
exporters to recover indirect taxes; the abolition of the agency formerly administering trade
controls and the initiation of a reform of customs. Of a total of 22 sectoral conditions, the
emphasis (16 conditions) was on the maintenance of already existing reforms, with measures
for further reform (six conditions) generally being considered secondary.
Implementation Experience
9.    The macroeconomic stabilization program. The stabilization program met the
targets of the IMF. The program implemented by the Government was orthodox and
monetary-based, since it stopped domestic financing of the fiscal deficit and imposed targets
on expansion of the monetary base. The Government maintained its commitment to strict
fiscal discipline. A cash management committee managed central government finances on a
cash basis only. The Government also maintained its commitment to the market



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL              ij
determination of key prices, including wages, as well as exchange and interest rates. With
no foreign exchange surrender requirements, all external transactions were convertible to a
single exchange rate. Monetary growth was limited to financing the quasi-fiscal deficit and
increasing foreign reserves of the Central Bank, at rates consistent with IMF targets.
10.   The external financing plan. In September 1991, after the IMF's Board approved
the RAP. the plan achieved two major objectives with: the Paris Club rescheduling, on
exceptional terms, for the period October 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992; and the debt
workout with the IDB (followed by the IDB's resumption of normnal lending). During 1991
the Support Group gave $370 million in balance-of-payment support and another $128
million in 1992. These amounts were well below the original pledge. The shortfall was
partly the result of suspended disbursements after the Government's partial suspension of the
Constitution in April 1992. Arrears with the Bank and the IMF were finally cleared in
March 1993, three months behind schedule.
11.   Structural adjustment. The Government fulfilled all the agreed conditions.
12.   Trade policy reform. The Government fulfilled all the agreed conditions.
13.   The Workout. Following Board presentation of the two loans covered in this report,
the Bank closely monitored project implementation, partly through local consultants. It
reported the results of its supervision in three reports to the Board during 1992. The final
report in December, at the end of the performance period, noted that the Government had
fulfilled the requirements of the two loans (and first-tranche requirements of the third
adjustment loan) and that it had also maintained its servicing of current debt to the Bank. In
the final report to the Board, Final Review of the Bank's Workout Program (R92-226), the
Board's approval was sought, and obtained, to allow the signing of the loan agreements, but
not their effectiveness and disbursement, prior to arrears clearance as an exception to the
policy established in the paper Additional Support for Workout Programs in Countries with
Protracted Arrears (R91-70). In March 1993, in an intricate arrears clearance procedure
also involving the IMF and bridge-financing institutions, the Trade Policy Reform, Structural
Adjustment, and Financial Sector Adjustment Loans were, following Perui's clearance of its
arrears, made effective and disbursed. (The first two loans were fully disbursed, along with
the first tranche of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.) Arrears clearance then enabled
the Bank and Peru to resume a normal relationship.
Results and Lessons Learned
14.   Between August 1990 and December 1992 (the date when the performance period set
by the Bank and the IMF ended), a new Administration laid the basis for one of the most
fundamental and rapid economic reforms witnessed in any country. These reforms may take
a long time to bear fruit, if the experience of other radical reformers such as Chile and New
Zealand is anything to go by. The economic situation remains fragile, but the resumption of
growth -- so far sustained -- since the end of 1992 and a palpable revival in investor
confidence augur well.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                  V
15.   The macroeconomic stabilization program. The program was successful in
curtailing hyperinflation, but it has not yet abated high inflation. The monthly inflation rate
declined from an average of 40 percent per month through mid-1990 to a figure around two
percent per month by the end of 1993. Notwithstanding the largle improvement. Peru is still
a high inflation country. In addition, domestic real interest rates both in soles- and dollar-
denominated operations, though still high, have dwindled from post stabilization levels. In
1990-92 there was a strong perception that the real exchange rate was over-valued. thereby
penalizing the production of tradable goods. In 1993, the real exchange rates depreciated
somewhat, enhancing the competitiveness of exports.
16.   Peru's experience contains some lessons about the course of stabilization of a highlv
repressed economy.
*     In a scenario of historical instability and persistent dollarization, the increase in the
demand for domestic real balances will be small despite a reduction in the inflation
rate.
*     In this framework, the efforts of the Central Bank to depreciate the real exchange rate
through direct purchases of foreign exchange will generate inflation.
*     Financial intermediation in dollars reduces the effectiveness of monetary policy but
deepens financial intermediation more generally and provides a "strong" currency
which facilitates trade and exchange.
*     Real interest rates may remain high despite the opening of the capital account,
reflecting a combination of country risk, expectations of a real exchange depreciation,
and the level of taxation. In turn, this may attract foreign capital and further affect
the real exchange rate.
17.   Structural adjustment. The reforms supported by the SAL have proven to be among
the most important changes in the country's economic framework since 1968. The reform
program encompasses a change in development strategy from an inward-oriented, import
substitution scheme to a market-oriented open economy. The program aims to limit the long-
run role of the Government to those activities in which it will be most efficient. In
particular, the State is abandoning its role as producer and planner. It is concentrating
instead on providing a stable legal framework for property rights, health, education, security
and basic infrastructure and fostering an environment of competition designed to promote a
more efficient allocation of resources.
18.   Trade policy reform. The essence of the reform was to move trade policy to a
stance approaching neutrality, i.e. where there is minimal policy discrimination between
different economic activities, between firms, or between imports and exports. Peru's trade
reform was in general as radical and rapid as that observed in any other country, including
Chile and Bolivia. The reforms have been completely effective in moving trade operations to
a more market-oriented system of incentives and greater integration with the world economy.
While the Peruvian economy has now begun a strong recovery from decades of stagnation



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL
and a subsequent period of recession (induced by the stabilization). it is as \-e difficult to
fully measure changes in the structure or level of trade (beyond a rapid growth in imports
and some change in their composition), hence to measure the gains from trade reforllls.
Nevertheless, a recent Bank report found Peruvian firms now listed trade regime problemsc as
the least of their worries (it had been their ereatest before). and noted the herinninms ol
improved industrial efficiency. If these economic reforms are maintained. measurable
benefits are soon likely to be apparent.
19.   The experience of the Trade Policy Reformn loan contains some lessons ol a narrowver.
more technical kind.
*     The Loan provided support to an agrictultural surcharges scheme. The scheme has,
in the event, operated most unsatisfactorilv, neither stabilizing prices nor benefitting
farmers, and it stands as a precedent encouraging other sectional interests to lobby for
protection.
*     As more and more Bank member countries undertake fundamental trade reforms,
Bank expertise needs to encompass new sets of issues. The Loan supported a custon7s
reform program. The Bank relied heavily on the IDB in the design and supervision of
this component, which appears to have been very effectively implemented. The Bank
could have made a better contribution if it had its own expertise in this area.
Similarly, the Bank needs to develop more expertise to deal with the public-health and
administrative issues associated with residual non-tarif barriers imposed for health,
safety. and security reasons.
20.   The external financing plan for 1991 and 1992. The success of this plan was
realized with the achievement of Peru's final arrears clearance with the IMF and the Bank.
21.   The Workout. Some of the discussion preceding the establishment of a Bank
workout program centered on issues of sequencing between the international financial
institutions and of sharing the burden in the clearance process. In the case of the Peru
workout, it is not easy to come to firm conclusions. but some relevant points can be made.
*     Burden sharing. Lending to Peru6 is risky, though the perceived risks have fallen as
Peru has sustained its recovery efforts. In the case of Peru's debt workout for the
Bank (as for the IMF), disbursements were approximately the size of arrears. In fact.
the Bank's disbursements were US$33 million larger than Per-u's arrears of US$867
million. Thus the rise in the Bank's country exposure (i.e. the sum of principal and
interest outstanding) was minimal, and it incurred little new direct risk. On the other
hand, any new lending to Perui associated with arrears clearance posed a risk to the
Bank's standing in capital-markets. This in itself might provide a reason to lend as
little as possible. Support Group disbursements in 1991 and 1992 allowed Peru to
defray the costs of servicing its debt to the Bank and the IMF. These countries thus
bore a greater burden of risk.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               vii
Timing and sequencing of clearance. By waiting to clear late -- at the end of the
performance period and 18 months later than IDB -- the Bank postponed the
resumption of its lending. It thus temporarily forewent part, but not all, of its
developmental role. But it can be argued that the Bank (like the IMF) reaped
financial advantages. First, the Bank was the recipient of net transfers from October
1990 to February 1993. During this period Pern paid the Bank over US$200 million
in current debt servicing. Second, the discipline which the Bank encouraged in Peru -
- in terms of economic policy and debt servicing -- cannot in itself have had a
negative impact on capital markets. The later clearance lowered the risk of the Bank
being associated with a failed reform and being perceived to have rolled over Peru's
debt. In the event, the indicators are that the arrears clearance operation has not
jeopardized the Bank's standing on capital markets.
*     The effect of later clearance on Peru. As a development institution, the Bank must
be as much concerned with its development impact as its financial standing. The
Bank's late clearance imposed an immediate cost on Pern inasmuch as Peri spent
two-and-a-half years servicing its current debt without receiving any development
assistance. Against this, it may, of course, be argued that the discipline of the
performance period provided its own benefits to Peri.
22.   Procurement and Disbursement procedures. Since the debt workout aimed at Bank
disbursements roughly equivalent in size to the arrears that Pern owed, there was in reality
little net transfer of funds from the Bank to Peru. Nonetheless, the Bank's rules required
that disbursements be made against import expenditures. This imposes a burden on
borrowers -- albeit minor compared to the size of the loan -- without any effect on the
procurement of imports from Bank member countries. A Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) prepared by the Bank correctly identified the issues related to reimbursement
of funds when no evidence of payment can be obtained, which permitted a broad discussion
and prompt resolution of the issue in the Bank. As a result of problems with documentation
of imports in Peru, the Bank changed its disbursement policy for structural adjustment loans,
somewhat simplifying the Bank's documentation requirements. But it might be preferable, if
this could be done consistently with the Bank's Articles of Agreement, to simplify
disbursement procedures even more for adjustment loans, especially for those carried out in
the context of an arrears clearance.
Sustainability
23.   The current Administration remains committed to the structural reforms and to current
economic policy, and is expected to maintain that position until the end of its term.
Furthermore, the Administration has signed a three-year Extended Fund Facility Program
with the IMF, that has defined an economic program for the period, setting goals and targets
consistent with increased stability.
24.   However, inflation and real interest rates are very high relative to international
standards. The exchange rate remains appreciated relative to historic levels, and financial
intermediation remains limited. There are still concerns about the sustainability of the



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                 viii
economic program beyond 1995. On the macroeconomic side, the fears are based on the
fragile situation of the fiscal balances over the medium term, unless there is an increase in
the level of tax revenues and an increase in the efficiency of public expenditure.
25.   In addition, some positive economic achievements are required to fully consolidate the
stabilization program. In particular, the recent recovery in growth must be sustained and the
banking system must recover its health. The long-term sustainability of the broad structural
reforms and economic improvement implemented by the Fujimori Administration will depend
on long-term political support. Maintaining democratic procedures, given the political
turmoil of recent years, while providing continuity in economic policy is a large challenge.
On the other hand, after a quarter-century of economic mismanagement and decline, many
people share a stake in, and hope for, Peri's economic reforms.






PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORMI LOAN (LOAN 3437-PE)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3452-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1. THE PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Project Identity
Operation                Trade Policy Reform Loan
Loan number              P-3437-PE
Operation                Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan number        :     P-3452-PE
Region             :     Latin America and the Caribbean
Country                  Republic of Peru
Sector                   Non-project Lending
II. Introduction
1.          This report covers two loans to Perui, the Trade Policy Reform Loan and the
Structural Adjustment Loan. The first supported a Peruvian program of rapid and far-
reaching trade reform, while the second supported a drastic program of macroeconomic
stabilization, as well as a social program and deep structural reforms in several areas. The
two projects were also part of a Bank program to effect a debt workout for Peru and thereby
contribute to reestablishing a normal operational relationship between the Bank and Peru and
to help the country return to the international financial community.
2.          These were among the first projects presented to the Board (in February and
March of 1992) under a new approach to address the problem of arrears to the Bank of
countries in non-accrual status. To address the problem, the Board adopted a policy, on May
2, 1991,1 to assist members with protracted arrears to the Bank in mobilizing sufficient
resources to clear their arrears, and to support a sustainable growth oriented adjustment
program over the medium term. For strong-performing countries with large arrears, this
new Workout Program enabled loans to be presented to the Bank during a "performance
period" but not disbursed (hence the "shadow adjustment program"). Once the country had
cleared its arrears at the end of this period, loans could be signed and made effective and the
accumulated disbursements released. The Workout Program, analogous to the IMF's Rights
Accumulation Program (RAP), required four conditions: (a) an external financing plan
agreed with the country; (b) an IMF-supported stabilization program; (c) a Bank-supported
"shadow" adjustment program; and (d) continued payment of current debt service to the
'Additional Supportfor Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears, R91-70, April 11, 1991.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                    2
Bank. The Board agreed that the adjustment program should result in Bank disbursements at
least sufficient to clear arrears to the Bank. However, the signing, effectiveness. and
disbursement of these loans would not take place until arrears to the Bank had been fully
cleared.
3.            Perfi had gone into arrears with the Bank in 1987 and resumed the servicin- of
its current debt to the Bank in October 1990. On July 30, 1991, the Board approved the
application to Peru. of the new Workout Program (see Peru. the Bank's Approach to a
Country with Protracted Arrears, R91-171, July 12, 1991). The Bank thereafter participated
in formulating an external financing plan with the government, the IMF, the IDB. and
bilateral donors. This involved the formation, in 1991, of a Support Group of donors. In
September 1991 the IMF's Board approved a RAP for Perui. The Bank's Board approved
three adjustment loans in the first half of 1992 (the Trade Policy Reform Loan, the SAL, and
a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan). Thus Bank staff requested permission to sign the three
adjustment loans prior to arrears clearance, with effectiveness of the loan agreements and
disbursements conditioned upon arrears clearance. This change allowed the Government to
complete expeditiously the legal steps required to ensure the validity of the loan agreements.
The performance period was completed, and the three loans signed with the Bank, in
December 1992. Peru repaid its arrears in March 1993, using two bridge loans, and the
Bank immediately disbursed an equivalent amount, made up of the single tranche of the trade
loan and the SAL and the first of two tranches of the third loan, the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan. After the completion of the Workout, the Bank then resumed normal
lending to Pern.
4.            This report considers the two first projects of the Peruvian Debt Workout
together because of their shared objectives, common background, and contemporaneous
completion. The report describes the application of the Workout Program to Peru, but it
does not comment on the Program itself, which has been evaluated in a paper of the Joint
Audit Committee.2 During the period of implementation of the project, the Bank made three
reports to the Board.3 The last of these asked the Board to approve certain amendments. It
included the request to sign the three adjustment loans prior to arrears clearance, with
effectiveness of the loan agreements and disbursements conditioned upon arrears clearance.
That approval was critical to the arrears clearance operation. In addition, this last report
(R92-226) analyzes the evolution of the macroeconomic situation in this period, describes the
evolution of sectoral policy covered by the three adjustment loans in the workout (providing
the details of fulfillment of conditionality in matrix form -- reproduced as Annexes 1 and 2 to
this Project Completion Report), and describes the fulfillment of the external financing plan.
Annexes 3 and 4 to this Project Completion Report provide a more detailed account of the
implementation of the two projects.
2joint Audit Committee, Review of IBRD Policy on Workout Programs for Countries wvith Protracted Arrears,
JAC93-17, April 30, 1993. The paper concludes (para. 15) that 'The policy has worked well, and has
supported both country and Bank objectives. ... there is no need for any change to the policy".
3Peru: QuarterlN Reviest' of Progress in the Bank's Workout Program, SecM92-697, May 28, 1992; Peru:
Quarterlh Review of Progress in the Bank's Workout Program, SecM92-1310, October 1, 1992; and Peru:
Final Review of the Bank's Workout Program, R92-226, December 10, 1992.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                  3
III. Policy Reform: The Historical Background4
5.           After an orthodox pro-market, export-oriented regime in the 1950s, Pern
experienced almost three decades of increasing interventionism and instability in economic
policy (1962-90) -- interventions in pricing, interest rates, exchange rates, trade, credit
allocation, land and labor markets, and so on. This had profound effects: economic
stagnation (per capita GDP in 1990 at 72 percent of its 1980 level), the withering of the state
as an effective governing force, the growth of a huge informal sector, repudiation of foreign
debts and isolation from the international community, and the growth of a vicious brand of
terrorism. The culmination of these trends was, at the end of Alan Garcia's presidential
regime in 1990, economic collapse and hyper-inflation (inflation at 36,000 percent per annum
in late July 1990). By any standards, this was a brutal collapse of a country.
6.           In June 1990, Mr. Alberto Fujimori was elected President. He had run for
office as a political outsider and on a platform of populist economic policies. His election
was followed by a period of intense debate among his advisers and with representatives of
the World Bank and the IMF on the need for a shock program to stabilize the economy. (On
June 29, he met the heads of the World Bank, IDB, and IMF in New York to discuss his
economic reform program and the possibility of help from the international financial
institutions.)
7.           On August 8, a few days after the new Administration took office, Prime
Minister Hurtado Miller announced a radical and orthodox program to control inflation,
adjust prices, and free markets. On the fiscal side this included management of the budget
on a cash basis, public-sector wage controls, a drastic rise in public sector prices, and the
elimination of most fiscal incentives and subsidies. On the monetary side it included a policy
of tight money, tight domestic credit, freeing of the exchange rate, and elimination of
exchange-rate controls. Most price controls were removed. The Government also began a
process of reforrning the structure and administration of taxes and it took the first measures
in trade reform (including tariff reductions, a preliminary elimination of most non-tariff
barriers, and the elimination of export subsidies).
8.           In March 1991, when a new Minister of Economy and Finance, Carlos Bolofia
took office, the program of economic reform entered a new and powerful phase, covering
many areas.
*     In trade, most remaining non-tariff barriers were eliminated (including those on most
second-hand goods), a two-tier tariff was introduced, as were variable tariffs to
stabilize the prices of leading agricultural products, and a customs reform was begun.
*     In the regulatory area, most state monopolies were eliminated, the ports and urban
transport were deregulated, and, from late 1991, a huge privatization program was
initiated.
*     The financial system was liberalized.
4 See Annex 3.



Project Completion Report TPRL and SAL                          4
*      The labor regime was made more flexible (through easier layoff provisions and
compensation for lavoffs).
*      Foreign investment was liberalized.
*      Steps were taken to improve private propert       a rights in land.
9.             In August 1990 the government also introduced a Social Emergency Program
safety net, which developed into a National Fund for Social Compensation and Development
(FONCODES) in August 1991.
IV. The Debt Workout for Peru
10.            The Peruvian Government had resumed servicing debt to the IMF in 1989. In
the aftermath of President Fujimori's election, the Bank and the Goverrnment entered into
discussions on the resumption of a normal relationship. The Goverrnent wished thereby not
only to gain access to the Bank's capital and technical assistance but also to take a step that
would facilitate the normalization of its relations with the international financial community.
To this end, on October 14, 1990, the Government resumed servicing its current debt to the
Bank.5 This cleared the way for two large Bank missions which prepared and discussed
reports in the field. One report (Perti: Sector Reform and Investment Review, November 14,
1990) analyzed the country's reform and investment needs, particularly in the public sector.
The other (Economic Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the Foundations for
Development, December 8, 1990) proposed a range of reforms to stabilize the economy and
induce reforms in specific areas, including the labor market, public administration, the fiscal
area, trade, and the financial sector.
11.            In mid-1990, Board discussion of debt workout exercises with Guyana and
Honduras gave expression to some dissatisfaction with the lack of an agreed Bank workout
policy and to the view that the Bank had played an insufficient role vis-a-vis the IMF and
had taken too large a share of the risk. Perni was the first case of a non-IDA country for
which arrears clearance came under discussion. It had the highest arrears in the Bank,
accounting for 1.24 percent of the Bank's portfolio in July 1990. Thus it became the catalyst
for a more widely applicable workout instrument. Actually, discussions within the Bank on
5Between March and September 1991, the Govemment began once more to accumulate arrears on the current
debt service to the Bank and the IDB. This action represented the Government's private dissatisfaction with a
situation in which the servicing of current debt to the Bank and the IDB was consuming about one tenth of the
budget, a situation which would not improve until after the workout with these two institutions. In this delicate
situation, the Bank consulted with the IMF, who made it a condition of its Board presentation (in September
1991) that arrears on current debt service to the other international financial institutions would be settled, and
the problem was thus solved.
'The reports were later combined, in shortened, slightly updated form, as Peru: Economic and Sector
Reforms to Sustaini Stabilization anid Lay the Foundations for Development, Green cover, February 18, 1992.
The combined report added little, existing mostlv to fulfill a bureaucratic requirement for a formal Bank
document on which to base adjustment lending.



Project -Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                     5
various options to deal with Peril's arrears had been ooing on since Peru resumed its debt
servicin2 to the IMF in 1989. From 1990, various Bank- departments cooperated to produce
proposals for a Bank debt workout policy, with the idea that Peru would be the first country
to have this policy applied.7 As a result, a paper was submitted to the Board in April.
receiving Board approval on May 2, 1991. This paper (Additional Support for Wnor/-'it
Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears, R91-70) provided the basis for the Bank's
new workout policy, hence the framework for the adjustment operations in Pern (see section
V below).
12.           In April 1991, a Bank mission to Lima met with the gov.rnment and laid the
basis for a series of three adjustment loans to effect such a workout for Peru.   1 July tb-
Board approved the application of the new workout policy to Peri by giving its blessinm    .
July 12 paper, Perfi: the Bank's Approach to a Country wiith Protracted Arre,-rs. R91-171.
The preparation of these loans began thereafter. The Japanese Grant Facilitt and the
German Company for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) provided technical a- -`tance in 1991 for
preparing and implementing the SAL.
13.           Following the Bank-Fund Annual Meetings in September 1990, the Bank and
the IMF agreed, at the urging of the Peruvian Government, to form a Support Group for
Pern.8 The leading donor countries were at first reluctant to make large scale commitments
to Peri, and it took some time for the Group to form. The Group, consisting of
international donors and the three international financial institutions, first met in June 1991,
co-chaired by the U.S. and Japan, with the IMF playing the leading "secretarial" role. The
Group's purpose was to mobilize resources to fill the US$1.3 billion external financing ga.-
that had been identified (mostly on the analysis of the IMF), in addition to quick-disbursing
support from the international financial institutions, for 1991 and 1992. By September, the
Support Group had pledged US$1.1 billion. Following the formation of the SunporL Group,
the Bank took a secondary role in mobilizing donor support through the Group, concentrating
later on mobilizing support, through a Consultative Group, formed in 1993, for Pern's social
sectors.
14.           On September 12, 1991, the IMF Board, satisfied that Peru'~ external
financing requirements could be met and that Perd would maintain its payments on current
obligations to the international financial institutions, approved a Rights Accumulation
Program (RAP) for Peru.9 Under the program, Peru's adherence to IMF performance
criteria and continued servicing of debt to the international financial institutions would lead to
the accrual of rights to future disbursements once arrears to the IMF had been cleared at the
end of 1992.
7This notably involved the LA4 Country Department and the Risk Management & Financial Policy
Department. In January 1991, following a reorganization in the Latin Ai !rica and Caribbean Region,
responsibility for Pern shifted from LA4 Department to LAI. Some key country personnel were transferred to
the new Department.
8Support Groups, usually chaired by the IMF, have been established when extraordinarily large amounts of
external financing are to be mobilized quickly. Consultative Groups, usually chaired by the Bank, are formed
to address longer-term resource requirements.
9The RAP had been adopted by the IMF Board in April 1990.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                6
15.          The agreement with the IMF led the way to Peru's clearance of its arrears
with the IDB on September 13. (After some initial hesitation, the international financial
institutions agreed that the IDB should lead the way on clearance as it had the smallest
arrears outstanding). On September 18, the IDB's Board approved a Trade Sector Loan to
Peru for USS425 million, a first tranche of which (for US$325 million) was disbursed on
September 25.  The IDB was then able to undertake an active program of adjustment and
investment lending (including a financial sector adjustment loan in 1992) and resume
disbursement on existing projects.
16.         In their September 1991 meeting Peru's Paris Club creditors agreed on
exceptional terms for the country in the form of cash-flow relief from October 1991 to the
end of 1992.
17.          On February 4, 1992, the Bank's Board approved a US$300 million Trade
Policy Reform Loan (3437-PE). On March 26, 1992, its approved a US$300 million
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL -- 3452-PE). On June 17, 1992, it approved a US$400
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3489-PE).
18.         In early 1992, the Bank and the Peruvian Government discussed the possibility
of bringing forward the arrears clearance to June 1992. Discussions were quite advanced
when President Fujimori, in an April 5 "auto-golpe" ("self-coup"), dissolved the Congress
and the judiciary, and suspended parts of the Constitution. Disbursements by Support Group
countries and the IDB were suspended. The auto-golpe scuttled the idea of early arrears
clearance with the Bank. Bank staff requested permission to sign the three adjustment loans
prior to arrears clearance, with effectiveness of the loan agreements and disbursements
conditioned upon arrears clearance. This change allowed the Government to complete
expeditiously the legal steps required to ensure the validity of the loan agreements. By the
end of 1992, Perui was making progress, at the urging of the international community, in
returning to democratic rule. A Democratic Constitutional Congress (CCD) was elected in
November. The performance period was completed, and the three loans signed with the
Bank, in December 1992.
19.          At the Government's request, the Bank made first contacts with financial
institutions to arrange two bridge loans in March 1992. There was a positive reaction on the
part of various banks, but the Government was, in the end, unable to come to an agreement.
The US Treasury and the Japanese Export-Import Bank then agreed to provide the bridge
loans.
20.         In early 1992, the IMF had to consider a successor arrangement to the RAP.
In September 1992, it started preparing an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for 1993-95. The
IMF estimated that a new Support Group would need to raise US$410 million to cover the
expected external funding shortfall of 1993. But only US$270 million was pledged.
"'The loan was among the first that IDB made under a new policy permitting it to undertake adjustment
lending without having to co-finance with the Bank.



Project Completion Report. TPRL and SAL                   7
21.          The Bank's three loans were signed on December 18. 1992. Nonetheless, it
took a further three months before the arrears could be cleared and the loans made effectiVe.
One reason for this was that, following the Bank's requirement that the loans receive
congressional ratification, Per-Ci's political timetable did not allow ratification before mid-
January. In addition, the IMF had difficulties in coming to an agreement with the
Government on its 1993 economic program, and this held up the finalization of the EFF from
the last few months of 1992 onwards. Given that the External Financinc Plan envisaged
concurrent clearance of Bank and IMF arrears, the Fund did not want the Bank to disburse
on the adjustment loans until it was ready to do so (which happened in early 1993)."
22.          Finally, on March 18, 1993, a complex sequence of transactions completed the
debt workout: Peri cleared its arrears with the Fund using the two bridge loans; the IMF
disbursed; the proceeds were used to clear the Bank's arrears; the Bank then disbursed the
full proceeds of two adjustment loans and the first tranche of the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan; and Peru paid back the bridge loans.
V. The Two Projects
The Structure of the Loans
23.          The three adjustment loans contributing to the Peruvian debt workout had a
common structure reflecting the peculiarities of the workout. Each loan underwrote the same
macroeconomic stabilization program and external financing plan, while supporting separate
"sectoral" adjustment programs. (In the discussion below that covers the sectoral adjustment
programs of the two loans covered by this report, the macroeconomic stabilization program
is considered along with the structural adjustment program.)
24.          For each loan the Letter of Development Policy played a particularly important
role. The signature of the loan agreements came (in December 1992) at the end of the
performance period, well after Board presentation (10 months later, in the event, for the
Trade Policy Reform Loan and 9 months later for the SAL). Under these circumstances, the
loan agreement, contrary to normal practice, was a simple document containing a recognition
of what had been done, rather than a program of what was to be done. It was the Letter of
Development Policy which, effectively, detailed the understanding that the Bank and the
Government reached during loan negotiations. This understanding covered the process and
conditions under which the loans would be presented to the Board and thereafter signed and
made effective. This included the conditions covering the macroeconomic stabilization
program and the external financing plan, the requirement for PerI to remain current on its
debt servicing, and the precise details of sectoral conditionality. Thus the loans were
implemented (and supervised) before they were signed.
"The resignation of the Minister of Economy and Finance, Carlos Bolofia, on January 4, 1993, did not in
itself appear to slow the clearance process. The new US Administration that came into office in January 1993
sought assurances on several human-rights issues from the Fujimori Administration. Assurances were promptly
given (shortly before arrears were cleared), and this did not appear to add any delays to the clearance.



Project Completmon Report: TPRL and SAL                         8
Stabilization and the Structural Adjustment Program'2
25.            For tCe SAL, the Government of Perna agreed with the Bank on a set of 45
sectoral conditions covering macroeconomic and structural reforms. Twenty four of these
conditions prevented reversal of policy actions implemented prior to loan presentation to the
Board. The other 21 were conditions for further refonn.
26.            Stabilization. The 6. )ilization program  implemented by the Fujimori
Administration can be characterized as orthodox and monetary-based, since it stopped
domestic financing of the fiscal defi t and imposed targets on money base expansion. The
Government maintained its commitment to strict fiscal discipline. A cash management
committee managed State finance, -,n a cash basis only. The Government also maintained
its commitment to the market determination of key prices, including wages, as well as the
.xchange and interest rates. With no foreign exchange surrender requirements, all external
transactions were convertible to a single exchange rate, at the time considered convenient to
the exporter or importer. Monetary growth was limited to financing the quasi-fiscal deficit
and increasing foreign reserves of Central Bank, at rates consistent with IMF targets. The
program was succezsful in curtailing hyperinflation,'3 but it has not yet abated high
inflation. The monthly rate declined from an average of 40 percent per month through mid
1990 to a filurc iround two percent per month by the end of 1993. Notwithstanding the
large improvement, Perd is still among high inflation countries. In addition, domestic real
interest rates both in soles and dollar-denominated operations, though still high, have
dwindled from post-stabilization levels. In 1993, the real exchange rates depreciated
somewhat, enhancing the competitiveness of exports.
27.            Fiscal policy. Drastic changes in tax legislation reduced to five the number of
taxes collected by the central government, allowed for inflation adjustments to account for
12See also Annex 3.
13The Bank's new workout policy required the presence of an IMF-supported stabilization program. The IMF
duly supported Peru's stabilization program through its RAP, and, at the end of 1992, pronounced all
performance criteria under the RAP observed. The Bank also chose to monitor the stabilization plan
independently by reference to the performance of a set of relevant indicators for 1992. The purpose of this
approach was not to set up alternative indicators -- they were consistent with the IMF program -- but to enable
the Bank to emphasize those indicators it thought were most important. These indicators, not in themselves
strict performance conditions vould help support the Bank's own judgements on the progress of stabilization.
1992 performance under the i,idicators was as follows.
(a)Central Government current tax revenue: target of about 9.0 percent of GDP; actual was 10.2
percent.
(b)Primary balance of the non-financial public sector: target of at least 0.6 percent of GDP; actual was
0.1 percent
(c)Rate of creation of monetary base (December 1991 to December 1992): target was up to 40 percent;
actual was 71 percent.
(d) Stock of other Central Bank monetary liabilities in Soles: target was up to 0. 1 times monetary
base; actual was 0.



Prolec Comp/etlon Reporn. TPRL and SAL                   9
collection lags, and eliminated many exemptions and loopholes. The Government introduced
a new tax code allowing more efficiency in the tracking of infrinoements. and stricter
penalties (including prison terms) for certain infractions. The modification of statutory rates
increased the share of the value added tax in total collections, reducing the level of more
distorting taxes. The institutional framework for the implementation of the law was
improved, providing the basis for higher tax enforcement compliance. The tax adminis-
tration institution, SUNAT, reorganized its personnel and modernized its monitoring tools in
order to improve its quality and effectiveness. These changes in the fiscal system permnitted
the central administration to collect about nine percent of GDP in tax revenues in 1992, five
percentage points higher than when the new Administration took office. But with tax
collections still at a low level, the Government was obliged to continue restricting
expenditure in order to achieve a negligible deficit of the consolidated non-financial public
sector in 1992. It was obliged to postpone public sector investment, to observe tight
discipline on public sector wages, and to reduce the number of employees through voluntary
retirement. However, the Government managed to resume payment to all international
financial institutions.
28.          Labor. Among the reforms supported by the SAL, the labor stability law was
relaxed, expanding conditions for layoffs and increasing the probationary period in specific
cases. In addition, new labor contracts were allowed on a fixed-term basis (up to three
years), allowing for fluctuations in temporary employment to adjust for new market
conditions. Finally, the Compensation for Time and Services Rendered (CTS) became a
fully-funded severance-cum-retirement mandatory savings scheme, managed by financial
institutions. This change has improved labor mobility, because it provided workers with
guaranteed savings available in case of severance while they search for a new job. The
Government also redefined the framework for collective negotiations and the rules that
govern a strike.
29.          Social security. The Government has redefined the nature of the mandatory
saving for retirement. A new legal framework will allow workers to choose between joining
a pension system managed by the State and one handled privately. The new system may
significantly increase the saving rate and improve income distribution. It has also eliminated
discriminatory treatment favoring some pressure groups and changed the legal requirement
for indexation of the pension to periodic rises to account for inflation depending on the
financial resources available to the managing institution.
30.          Agriculture. In 1991, the Government passed a new Agricultural Investment
Promotion law which abolished the earlier Agrarian Reform Law and strengthened the basis
for private property rights and market freedoms in land and water usage. Significant steps
have been taken toward the full implementation of the law. However, some difficulties
remain for land titling and registration. Most rural land has not been registered yet. Titling
will enable peasants to use their land as collateral for credit. State participation in
agriculture -- through price-setting, credit and subsidies, trading monopolies -- is being cut
drastically.
31.          Privatization. The legal and institutional framework for privatization was
defined in 1991 and 1992. Perd's bold program aims to privatize about 224 companies,



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               10
leaving the State to concentrate on basic infrastructure, health, education, and justice. As
part of the effort to promote investment, the Government has made its foreign investment
legislation among the most liberal in the world. Foreign investors now have the same rights
and obligations as Peruvians. There are no restrictions on capital remittances in any form.
32.       From May 1992 to April 1994, 33 companies have been privatized. This process
has accrued US$ 2.07 billion in revenues, and has helped the Government balance its budget.
Of particular note was the privatization of Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones -
Entel/Compania Peruana de Telefonos - CPT - Telecommunications. On February 28, 1994,
a control package of 35% of Entel and CPT--including a capital increase in CPT--, was
auctioned to a consortium led by Telefonica Internacional (Spain), for a total of US$2 billion.
Out of this amount, the State will receive US$1.39 billion, while US$0.61 billion will be the
additional capital in CPT. Up to 10% of Entel's shares will be offered to Entel's workers
and the remaining shares will eventually be offered in the market. All the remaining mayor
companies will be privatized by early 1995. These include the two mayor electricity
companies (ELECTROLIMA and ELECTROPERU), the national oil company
(PETROPERU), the water and sewerage company (SEDAPAL) and the remaining mining
companies (CENTROMIN and MINEROPERU).
33.          The social sector. To alleviate poverty, the Government will promote the
generation of wealth as much as the redistribution of income. The process of labor market
deregulation, the elimination of the regressive inflation tax, and the promotion of other
structural reforms should both improve real wages and expand the number of people in
formal occupations. In addition, the Government will concentrate on the provision,
rehabilitation, and expansion of basic public services in health, education, and water and
sanitation. This will require considerable improvement in the Government's administrative
capacity. As a short-term response to critical poverty, the Government designed a poverty
alleviation strategy establishing a minimum safety net for the most vulnerable groups in the
society. It began with an outline of policies in health, nutrition, education, and employment;
the identification of vulnerable sectors and priority programs; and an institutional framework
for the implementation of social programs. One of the principal safety net schemes,
FONCODES (the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development), created in
1991, finances small labor-intensive projects for the rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure and for the provision of basic social services, identified by poor local
communities. Since it started, it has achieved notable improvements in efficiency and
management. It relies on both internal and external resources.
The Trade Reform Program'4
34.          In August 1990, the newly elected Fujimori Government began a fundamental
trade reform concurrently with the introduction of a stabilization policy and the initiation of a
broad range of economic reforrns. The exchange rate was immediately unified and floated,
and almost all rationing of foreign exchange was eliminated. Many non-tariff barriers, most
import tariff preferences, and all export subsidies were eliminated in short order. By March
14See also Annex 3.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                11
1991, virtually all remaining non-tariff barriers had been eliminated. At that time, a two-rate
tariff (15 and 25 percent) was introduced (with a few exceptions for steel products). A
system of variable tariff surcharges was introduced for a limited number of agricultural
products in an effort to provide greater price stability in the domestic market. In mid-1991
an anti-dumping code was passed. By this time, the Government had eliminated most of the
activity of the Instituto de Comercio Exterior (ICE -- the public body that had formerly
administered import controls and export subsidies), and begun a program of reforming the
customs service. In September, the Government gave the strength of law to many of the
decrees that had achieved these policy changes.
35.          The Bank -- more than satisfied with the amount and quality of reform already
having taken place -- was concerned to agree on conditionality which would require Peri to
undertake to maintain all its actual reforms and undertake only a few remaining reforms it
had already announced (notably tariff unification by early 1993), rather than to seek new
policy concessions. In this respect, the Bank sought to defend the trade policy positions
already established by the Government and enjoying substantial public support against any
future opposition that might arise. Of the 22 conditions agreed in the Trade Policy Reform
Loan (see Annex 1), 16 were to maintain existing reforms and six to achieve further changes.
The main actions under the Loan can be summarized as follows:
(a)          the exchange regime: maintain a single freely convertible exchange
rate for all transactions;
(b)          tariffs: maintain a simplified tariff structure which has substantially
reduced the level and variance of protection; maintain the elimination of most
special regimes allowing discriminatory preferences on the domestic market;
maintain the agricultural surcharges scheme as it is (that is, not expanding or
changing it), with the possibility of revising it following a study; revise the
anti-dumping code (with the help of a study of the issue);
(c)          non-tariff import barriers: maintain the elimination of formally
protective barriers, including prohibitions, minimum-local-content regulations,
controls on most second-hand imports, and state agricultural import
monopolies; reduce or simplify some technical/safety/health controls on
imports (with the help of a study of the issue);
(d)          export regime: maintain the elimination of fiscal and financial export
subsidies; improve schemes to allow imports to recuperate indirect taxes when
the fiscal situation permitted this; maintain the reduction in non-tariff export
barriers;
(e)          trade institutions: carry out a program for customs reform.
36.          The loan was prepared between June and December 1991. From the
beginning, the Bank worked in close cooperation with the IDB, which presented its own
Trade Sector Loan to its Board on September 18, 1991. The Bank and IDB agreed on



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                         72
virtually identical trade conditionality. IDB took the lead in designing the project component
on customs reform. (IDB also provided a US$2.3 million component of a Technical
Cooperation project to fund technical assistance for the customs reform.)
37.            The Board document Perni: Final Reviewv of the Bank's Workout Program
(R92-226, December 10, 1992) reported that the Government had observed all measures
agreed (see Annex 1, reproduced as Annex 1 in this report, for details) and that its
commitment to an open trade regime had not wavered during the performance period."5
This is still the case more than one year later. In some cases, however, the trade reform
encountered temporary reversals or other problems of implementation.
38.            Tariff reform  and the Andean Pact. Shortly before Board presentation, the
Presidents of the Andean Pact committed themselves to create a customs union. This had
tariff implications for Peru in conflict with the loan conditionality initially proposed by the
Government and acceptable to the Bank. To solve the conflict, the Bank and the
Government then agreed on "either/or" conditions for tariff reform, depending on whether
the Government opted to maintain the tariff strategy announced in early 1991 (first a two-tier
tariff, then a low single rate) or opted to negotiate a common external tariff within the
Andean Group (which was likely to be a multi-tier tariff, with higher average rates). In the
event, the Government, wishing to avoid raising the level of protection, has not agreed a
common external tariff with its Andean-Group partners, and the Government's tariff policy
continues to be to move to a flat 15-percent tariff. This outcome bodes well for maintaining
the momentum of Perd's trade reforn process.
39.            The agricultural surcharges scheme, created in March 1991, provides for a
variable surcharge, in addition to the normal 15-percent tariff, based on the average of the
previous five years' c.i.f. import price. Much of the revenue from these tariffs provides
resources for the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government agreed not to extend the scheme
beyond the 18 products originally specified and to undertake a study to evaluate the scheme.
This study, completed in August 1992, found that, had the scheme been consistently
implemented as originally intended, greater price stability would have brought welfare gains,
particularly for sugar."6 But the frequent changes in the rules -- changes in products
covered and in methodology -- led instead to welfare losses. Moreover, the presence of
close substitutes and apparently imperfect competition in food distribution meant that the
surcharges were not translated into increased farm-gate prices. The study recommended the
15 The procedure in this loan, as in other Bank adjustment loans, was to require the fulfillment, without
exception in principle, of a list of conditions. Formally, this gives the Bank little flexibility, short of seeking a
Board waiver: if one condition remains unmet while 19 are met, the conditionality is deemed not having been
fulfilled, even if some of the other 19 are fulfilled beyond expectations. In this Loan, there were undoubtedly
some minor cases of backtracking, but on balance conditionality was amply fulfilled. The Loan further required
the Government to prepare studies in three areas (the anti-dumping code, tariff surcharges, and non-tariff
barriers), the Bank and the Government to agree on further reforms based on these studies, and the Government
to implement these. This kind of conditionality does not always make sense: it is sometimes unwise for
governments and the Bank to commit themselves to agreeing and acting on a study whose findings they do not
know in advance.
16 Javier Escobal and Arturo Brisceno, El Sistenma de Sobretasas Agricolas en el Peru: Ev'aluacion Y
Recomendaciones, GRADE, 28 de Agosto de 1992.



Project Completion Report TPRL and SAL                    73
direct provision of budgetary resources to improve farmer welfare, measures lo-increase
competition in distribution, and a flat 10-percent ad valoremn tariff surcharge.
40.           The variable surcharge has been potentially damaging to the overall thrust of
trade reform because it provides the thin end of the wedge for protectionist interests. The
current situation is that the scheme, now covering 20 products, has been more or less
brought back to its September 1991 situation. Given opposition within the Government to
the flat-10-percent-tariff recomrnendation, and the view that evolved in the Bank that the
scheme should be changed wholesale (preferably eliminated) or not at all, the Bank has
accepted the scheme in its present form, but has undertaken to keep the matter under review
in its policy dialogue with the Government.
41.           Non-tariff barriers related to health, technical, security, and miscellaneous
regulations. The Government agreed to undertake a study to improve import procedures in
this area. A study, completed in March 1992, analyzes procedures for importing agricultural
goods and inputs, and proposes criteria and measures for non-discriminatory health
controls. 17 It criticizes the protectionism of pre-Fujimori measures, but also suggest that
health risks may be posed by the extent of liberalization associated with some of the post-
Fujimori reforms. The study was originally intended as the basis for Bank-Governrment
agreement on new policy measures to be taken. However, the complexities of the public-
goods problems involved in health and safety controls suggest that thorough-going reforms
will require more study.
42.           Nonetheless, the Government has been assiduous in fighting the lingering
bureaucracy of some of its ministries. In the area of certifying agricultural and
pharmaceutical imports, it has made progress -- at times slow and halting -- in establishing
procedures allowing private agents to certify imports. Surveillance of non-tariff barriers is
now the responsibility of a new National Institute for the Maintenance of Competition and
Defense of Intellectual Property (INDECOPI). INDECOPI continues to be active in studying
methods ol reducing the discriminatory impact of non-tariff barriers, and may take over
accreditation responsibilities for health and quality certification from the Ministries of
Agriculture and Health.
43.           Customs Reform. The Government agreed to formulate and carry out an
Action Plan to restr-ucture the Customs Superintendency (SUNAD) and reform the legal
framework lolr customs. The Action Plan has been carried out, and SUNAD has made
impressive progress in changing its structure and practices. Customs bureaucracy has been
redluced, and imports are now processed more rapidly: it now takes less than a day, on
average, to clear customs. There has been a dramatic increase in revenue collection: from
1990 to 1992 the value of imports increased by 40 percent while revenues doubled. But the
present reform may not go htr enough. There is, for instance, further scope for privatizing
customs clearance, leaving a streamlined SUNAD to issue rules and to supervise. The
Government has been considering further reformn along these lines.
17 Hcriiogeines Pinedo R., Criterios y Nortmas de Imporracion: Eliminacion de Barreras No Arancelarias al
Conlercio Exterior: Inventario iv Criterios para Mejorar la Aplicacion de las Normas de Control Sanitario en la
lnporlacion tie Producros e Insumos Agrarios, Lima, Marzo 1992.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                    14
44.           A pre-shipment inspection (PSI) scheme, designed to increase tfie efficiency
and honesty of collecting tariff revenue, has been working since March 1992. The Bank had
no conditionality in this area. Indeed, the President's Report was equivocal about the
benefits of the scheme (para. 90). (In general, the Bank has embraced such schemes more
positively than this.) Few have been caught cheating, but the services of PSI companies
must have played a significant role in the increase in tariff revenues. The Government has
explained that the PSI scheme is intended to last for no more than one to two years, by
which time customs will have a decent customs valuation data bank. A Bank study has
looked at the Peruvian PSI scheme in the context of a broader research project on the costs
and benefits of PSI schemes.'8 The study acknowledges the benefit of the scheme as a
transitional aid to customs reform by removing the valuation process from customs and
giving the service a breathing space to concentrate on other aspects of reform. But the net
benefit is likely to decrease over time as customs and trade reform reduces the returns to
false declarations. Thus, SUNAD must begin to take over progressively customs valuation
responsibilities from the PSI companies.
The External Financing Plan
45.           Peru's arrears grew rapidly from 1983 onwards. In July 1985, the
Government announced that it would cap total foreign debt payments at 10 percent of
exports. It had achieved this by 1988, by which time it had also extended its moratorium to
the international financial institutions. Thus Peri became largely uncreditworthy in
international financial markets.
46.           With the Fujimori Government's announced intention of reintegrating Peri into
international capital markets, the international community sought to develop a coordinated
approach to address the problems of Peru's arrears and the heavy debt-service obligations it
had undertaken (in spite of a fragile fiscal situation) by resuming current debt-servicing to the
international financial institutions. Given that, at the beginning at least, international donors
were skeptical of Peru's capacity for recovery, the approach taken was step-wise. The
donors and the Government adopted a 1991-92 external financing plan that addressed the
issues of rescheduling Peru's arrears to bilateral official creditors and accomplishing the
normalization of Peru's standing with the three international financial institutions."J The
resolution of arrears to private creditors was to be unilaterally deferred.
47.           The IMF took the lead in the forecasts on which the plan was based, and the
Bank adopted these forecasts. As is traditional in the approach of donor groups and
agencies, the "bottom line" of these forecasts is an estimated financing gap which donors are
called on to fill. This kind of analysis is, of course difficult; some of the items projected are
residuals, and flexible exchange rates (as is Perui's case), reduce, ex-post, the projected gaps.
Nonetheless, the projection serves the purpose of justifying aid levels.
18 Geoffrey J. Bannister, The Peruvian Pre-Shipmnent Inspection Program, International Trade Division,
World Bank, July 1993.
'9See paras. 54-72 of Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Trade Polic) Reformri Loan in an
Amount Equivalent to US$300 Million to the Republic of Peru, P-5666-PE, January 10, 1992.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                              15
Table 1: Peru - External Financing 1991-93: Planned and Actual
(US$ millions)
1991 a.        1992 a.       1991-1992          1993 b.
A. ESTIMATES:
Financing Requirements:
1. Non-Interest Current Account Deficit                             536            492             1028            1025
2. Debt Service Obligations                                        2616           2398             5014            2483
3. Arrears to be Settled in Current Year                          12055           1800            13855            1799
4. Increase in Gross Reserves                                       454            303              757             324
5. Gross Financing Requirements (I +2+3+4)                        15661           4993            20654            5631
6. Loan Disbursements in Pipeline                                   255            200              455             283
7. Private Capital Flows                                            908            545             1453            1445
8. Net Financing Requirements (5-6-7)                             14498           4248            18746            3903
Sources:
9. Debt Rescheduling and Deferral                                 13598           1467            15065            1220
Official Bilateral                                            6352            769             7121             692
Private                                                       7246            698             7944             528
10. Additional Disbursements                                        900           2781             3681            2682
Multilateral                                                   654           2328             2982            2272
Official Bilateral                                             246            453              699             410
11. Additional Financing Required                                     0              0                0               0
12. Total Sources of Financing (9+10+ 11)                        14498            4248            18746            3902
B. ACTUAL:
Financing Requirements:
1. Non-Interest Current Account Deficit                             877           1159             2036            1149
2. Debt Service Obligations                                        2925           2133             5058            2456
3. Arrears to be Settled in Current Year                           4890             37             4927            1725
4. Increase in Gross Reserves                                       904            257             1161             275
5. Gross Financing Requirements (I +2+3 +4)                        9596           3586            13182            5605
6. Loan Disbursements in Pipeline                                   217            244              461             174
7. Private Capital Flows                                           1892           1898             3790            1698
8. Net Financing Requirements (5-6-7)                              7487           1444             8931            3733
Sources:
9. Debt Rescheduling and Deferral                                  6352           1285             7637            1484
Official Bilateral                                            6352            777             7129             893
Private                                                          0            508              508             591
10. Additional Disbursements                                       1135            159             1294            2249
Multilateral                                                   698             64              762            2048
Official Bilateral                                             437             95              532             201
11. Additional Financing Required                                     0              0                0               0
12. Total Sources of Financing (9+ 10+ 11)                         7487           1444             8931            3733
a. Estimates are from the beginning of 1992.
b. Estimates are from the beginning of 1993; actual is preliminary figures.



Project Completion Report TPRL and SAL                  16
48.          In September 1991, after the IMF's Board approved the RAP' the plan
achieved two major objectives with: the Paris Club rescheduling, on exceptional terms, for
the period October 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992; and the debt workout with IDB
(followed by IDB's resumption of normal lending).20 During that year the Support Group
gave US$370 million in balance-of-payment support and another US$67 million in project
support (see Table 1). The Support Group contributed US$128 million of balance-of-
payment support in 1992 and another US$50 million in project support. In September 1991,
the Support Group had sought to raise US$1.3 billion for 1991-92. By the time that the
Bank presented its three adjustment loans to the Board (first half of 1992), this figure had
been revised down to US$700 million. The actual Support Group contribution for the two
years (balance-of-payments support only) totalled US$595 million. The shortfall was partly
the result of suspended disbursements after the "auto-golpe" of April 5, 1992, including
concerns about human rights. Of the two largest contributors (and co-chairs of the Support
Group), Japan, less affected by these concerns, gave more than it had initially pledged, while
the US gave far less.2' Postponing the arrears workout for the Bank and the IMF from the
end of 1992 to the beginning of 1993 meant that the final result of the 1991-92 external
financing plan was achieved a little behind schedule.
49.          Once Peru had normalized its relations with official bilateral creditors and the
international financial institutions, the Government in 1993 began negotiations with its
commercial bank creditors. In May 1993, Perfi also benefitted from a further Paris Club
rescheduling which reduced Peru-'s debt service due to Paris Club countries by about
US$1.88 billion for 1993 to 1995. The success of this settlement was deemed to virtually
eliminate the need for a Support Group in 1994 and 1995. The Support Group met for the
last time in March 1993, pledging US$265 million for 1993.
VI. Implementing and Monitoring the Loans
The Borrower
50.          The President appointed well-qualified professionals to design and manage the
reform and stabilization programs. Two Ministers of Economy held office during the
performance period, but the reforms followed a single direction. Moreover, many of the
advisors remained at their positions, giving continuity to the economic policy. The principal
Ministries responsible for the Structural Adjustment Program were Economy and Finance,
Labor, Agriculture, Health, and Education. In addition, the Central Bank and the
Commission for the Promotion of Private Sector Investment in State Enterprises (COPRI)
had a direct participation in the SAL. The Bank worked closely with a special coordinating
unit set up in the Ministry of Economy and Finance to monitor the specific targets agreed on
both loans and to report on their status to the Bank. A special unit was set up in the Central
Bank to prepare disbursement documentation.
20The Latin American Reserve Fund (FLAR) also contributed a bridge loan of $325 million in connection
with the IDB workout, but the Central Bank repaid this almost immediately.
21This was made up as follows: $20 million from the US; $422 million from Japan; $16 million from
France; $25 million from the Netherlands; $5 million from Sweden; and $10 million from Switzerland.



Pro1ect Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               1 7
Project Mlonitoring
51.          The Bank supervised the maintenance and implementation of measures agreed
under both loans not only through supervision missions, but also by establishing a local
monitoring unit, staffed by consultants, which provided regular and detailed reports to the
Bank on policy changes and the fulfillment of project conditionality. The monitoring unit
was extremely valuable in providing accurate and timely information over a broad range of
policy areas and in the timely detection of any problems that might arise in the fulfillment of
conditionality. The Bank also consulted closely with IDB on common concerns arising from
the conditionality of its loans (mostly in issues related to trade).
52.          As the Bank's workout policy requires, the Bank reported regularly to the
Board on the implementation of these two projects, as well as the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan, in the context of the Peru workout program. Three reports were
submitted to the Board after the Trade Policy Reform Loan and SAL had been presented to
the Board, in May, October, and December of 1992. The final report, indicating a
successful conclusion to the "performance period", sought the Board's approval for arrears
clearance and permission to sign the three adjustment loans prior to the arrears clearance,
with effectiveness of the loan agreements and disbursements conditioned upon arrears
clearance. The permission to sign allowed the Government to complete expeditiously the
legal steps required to ensure the validity of the loan agreements.
Disbursement
53.          One of the biggest problems in loan preparation -- and one internal to the Bank
-- was the disbursement issue. Arrears clearance was to be accomplished through the
instantaneous disbursement of around US$900 million from three projects. This required,
according to the Bank's rules, documentation of payment for eligible imports; and it posed
difficulties on two fronts. First, US$900 million (about 30 percent of Peru's annual imports)
was a large amount to document, especially given that an estimated US$1.4 billion of IDB
and Support-Group financing due by the end of 1992 also needed to disburse against similar
documentation. Second, obtaining evidence of payments for imports would be very
problematic: the very reforms that our loans were supporting had eliminated the need for
import transactions to go through the Central Bank, while bank secrecy laws made it
potentially difficult for the Bank to obtain evidence of payment for imports from commercial
banks. These difficulties have also to be understood in the particular context of the Peru
workout: Bank disbursements were to be more or less equivalent in size to the arrears that
Peru would pay the Bank. In the event, there was a net transfer of funds from the Bank to
Peru of US$33 million.
54.          Notwithstanding this, the solution to these difficulties maintained the principle
of disbursing against imports. The solution had two principal elements. First, the Bank
permitted an unusually long period of retroactivity. The performance period for Peru was
defined, with some logic, to begin when Peru's reforms began, i.e. in August 1990. This
justified an expected 28-month period (that is, until December 1992) of imports eligible for
disbursement. Second, for the first loan to go to the Board (the Trade Policy Reform Loan
in February 1992), the Bank made an exception to its normal rule of disbursing against proof



Project Completlon Report: TPRL and SAL                 78
of payment for imports. It accepted instead evidence of the act of importing contained in
customs declarations as a proxy for evidence of payment. The issue of disbursing adjustment
loans had been recently raised elsewhere in the Bank, and as a result of the new Peru
precedent, the Bank quickly established a new policy for disbursement of adjustment loans
which accepted proof of importing as the basis for disbursing adjustment loans. By the time
the SAL went to the Board, it was covered by the new policy.22
55.          The disbursement issue constituted a costly, contentious, and arcane part of
project preparation. Even though the Bank solved its difficulties and the loans were
disbursed smoothly, the Peruvian Govermment, through its special unit in the Central Bank-,
was still involved in considerable expense in compiling the necessary documentation.
The Arrears Clearance Process
56.          Arrears were finally cleared on March 18, 1993, in a complex, multi-party
transaction which, in order:
3     provided bridge financing from the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Export-
Import Bank of Japan (both via the Federal Reserve Bank of New York) to permit
IMF arrears clearance;
*      aused the proceeds of the IMF disbursement (plus a small, additional amount of funds
from the Peruvian Government and the US Treasury) for clearing the arrears of the
Bank; and
*      ldisbursed Bank funds to the bridge financiers who, once they had taken back the
amount of the bridge financing, disbursed the remainder to the Peruvian Government.
The transaction needed to be fast and minutely planned to minimize the cost of the bridge
loan and the chance of the process going wrong. To this end, a Bank inter-Departmental
arrears clearance team, formed in April 1992 (and modelled on a team approach to the
earlier clearance of arrears for Zambia), had been meeting regularly to prepare the clearance.
In the event, the above three steps were completed in 95 minutes -- including a record 33
minutes from clearance of the Bank's arrears to Bank instructions to disburse to Peru.
VII. Conclusions
57.          The Trade Policy Reform and Structural Adjustment Loans had a double
objective: first, to sustain and extend Peru's economic reform program; and second, to
effect (along with the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) a debt workout for the country,
thereby helping reintegrate it into the international financial community. The operation
appears so far to have been a complete success.
22ln disbursing its Trade Reform Loan (first tranche in September 1991) the IDB had already adopted a
similar approach.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                 19
58.          Between August 1990 and December 1992, the performance period set by the
Bank and the IMF, a new Administration laid the basis for one of the most fundamental and
rapid economic reforrns witnessed in any country. These reforms may take a long time to
bear fruit, if the experience of other radical reformers such as Chile and New Zealand is
anything to go by. Moreover, the economic situation remains fragile: a still-delicate fiscal
balance translates into obstinately high inflation and interest rates, though they have been
falling. But the resumption of growth -- so far sustained -- since the end of 1992 and a
palpable revival in investor confidence augur well.23 The success of the reform program
benefitted from the single-mindedness and pragmatism of the Peruvian Government.
59.          Peru has now cleared its arrears with the Bank and the other financial
institutions. The Bank's arrears were cleared, and an equivalent amount disbursed in
adjustment lending, only after a performance period during which the Bank carefully
monitored: Peru's compliance with macroeconomic stabilization program and structural
adjustment programs; the execution of an internationally coordinated external financing plan;
and Peru's continued servicing of its current debt to the Bank. The indicators are that the
arrears clearance operation has not compromised the Bank's standing on capital markets.
The Peruvian case had the added benefit of having catalyzed a Bank-wide workout policy.
Issues in Project Design and Preparation
60.          The project timetable. The preparation and implementation of both projects
suffered various delays, although these delays may in the end not have been too costly.
*     The Bank first started discussing a Bank-wide workout policy in 1989 and took until
1991 to put one in place. This could perhaps have been achieved a year earlier, and
it took developments in Peru to bring the matter to a conclusion.
T he Bank took 16 months from Peru's resumption of debt servicing (in October 1990)
to present its first adjustment project to the Board (in February 1992). The Bank had
maintained its economic work on Peru after it stopped lending in 1987 and was quick
to establish contacts with, and offer advice to, the new Administration in 1990. The
transfer of responsibility for Peru from one Department to another at the beginning of
1991 may have cost a little momentum. Once the Bank had decided to go ahead with
the clearance exercise and prepare three projects, the first two were presented to the
Board a few months later than initially projected (the Trade Policy Reform Loan was
three months late, the SAL two months). Most aspects of project preparation went
very smoothly, because of the good knowledge base and the virtual absence of
disagreement with the Government. Coordination within the Bank proved more
difficult. In particular, the disbursement issue and the normal bureaucratic clearance
23Peru's political ups and downs have affected investor confidence. The "auto-golpe" of April 1992 harmed
the recovery, but progress in returning to democratic institutions, as well as the considerable damage that the
Government has inflicted on Sendero Luminoso, the terrorist movement, have been positive developments. The
commercial success of the privatization program is one indicator of the new confidence.



Project Comp/etion Report: TPRL and SAL                     20
requirements consumed a large amount of time.24 Board presentation was an
important political signal, and earlier Board presentation would have been beneficial.
61.           The debt workout. Some of the discussion preceding the establishment of a
Bank workout program centered on issues of sequencing between the international financial
institutions and of sharing the burden in the clearance process. In these discussions there
may have been something of an implicit presumption in the Bank that bearing a smaller
burden and earlier clearance were better. This is not necessarily so. The Bank's financial
health may not necessarily be best served in this way, while the Bank's financial concerns
may often conflict with its development role. In the case of the Peru. workout, it is not easy
to come to firm conclusions, but some points can be made.
*      Burden sharing. In the case of Peru's debt workout for the Bank (as for the IMF)
disbursements were approximately the size of arrears. In fact, the Bank's
disbursements were US$33 million larger than Peri's arrears of US$867 million.
Thus the rise in the Bank's country exposure (i.e. the sum of principal and overdue
interest outstanding) was minimal, and it incurred little new direct risk. On the other
hand, any new lending to Peru associated with arrears clearance posed a risk to the
Bank's standing in capital-markets. This in itself might provide a reason to lend as
little as possible, while the developmental impact of lending (for policy reforms, for
example) would presumably stand in direct relation to loan size. The IDB's first
disbursement on its arrears clearance (the first tranche of its adjustment loan) was
slightly less than its arrears. Support Group disbursements in 1991 and 1992 allowed
Peru to defray the costs of servicing its debt to the Bank and the IMF. Lending to
Peru is risky -- though the perceived risks have fallen as Peru has sustained its
recovery efforts -- and official bilateral lenders or donors thus bore a greater burden
of risk than the international financial institutions.
*      Timing and sequencing of clearance. By waiting to clear late -- at the end of the
performnance period and 18 months later than IDB -- the Bank postponed the
resumption of its lending. It thus temporarily forewent part, but not all, of its
developmental role. But it can be argued that the Bank (like the IMF) reaped
financial advantages. First, the Bank was the recipient of net transfers from October
1990 to February 1993. During this period Peru paid the Bank over US$200 million
in current debt servicing.25 Second, the discipline which the Bank encouraged in
Peru -- in terms of economic policy and debt servicing -- cannot in itself have had a
negative impact on capital markets. The later clearance lowered the risk of the Bank
being associated with a failed reform and being perceived to have rolled over Peri's
24The IDB began to prepare an adjustment loan at the same time as the Bank -- and with less expenise on
Peri -- and got to its Board by mid-September 1991.
251n 1991-92, the Support Group disbursed a similar amount to Peru. Officials from some of the Support
Group governments privately complained, at the beginning of the process at least, that the international financial
institutions expected bilateral aid to shoulder a large burden.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                  21
debt. 26
*     The effect of later clearance on Peru. As a development institution, the Bank must
be as much concerned with its development impact as its financial standing. The
Bank's late clearance imposed an immediate cost on Peru inasmuch as Penr spent
two-and-a-half years servicing its current debt without receiving any development
assistance. Against this, it may, of course, be argued that the discipline of the
performance period -- and the public record of prompt debt service payments --
provided its own benefits to Peru.
62.           Procurement and Disbursement procedures. The debt workout required, as
a minimum, Bank disbursements equivalent in size to the arrears that Per6 owed, and there
was in reality only a modest net transfer of funds (US$33 million) from the Bank to Peru.
Nonetheless, the Bank's rules required that disbursements be made against import
expenditures. This imposes a burden on borrowers -- albeit minor compared to the size of
the loan -- without any effect on the procurement of imports from Bank member countries.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) prepared by the Bank correctly
identified the issues related to reimbursement of funds when no evidence of payment can be
obtained, which permitted a broad discussion and prompt resolution of the issue in the Bank.
The loans to Peru did succeed in somewhat simplifying the Bank's requirements in respect of
import documentation. But it might be preferable, if this could be done consistently with the
Bank's Articles of Agreement, to simplify disbursement procedures even more for adjustment
loans, especially for those carried out in the context of an arrears clearance.
63.           The Bank's relationship with the IMF and EDB. Peru resumed its current
debt servicing to the IMF earlier than it did to the Bank or the IDB, while only the Bank and
the IDB, not the IMF, suffered interruptions in current debt servicing in the course of 1991.
(The IMF, through of its power of expulsion, enjoys leverage that the Bank does not have.)
In spite of this differential treatment, all three international financial institutions came to
cooperate in encouraging the Government to maintain current debt servicing to the three
institutions equally.
64.          The Bank had an exceptionally close working relationship with the IDB, the
result largely of the transfer of a Bank staff member to the IDB in mid 1991 to spearhead
IDB's own arrears clearance exercise with Peru. The Bank also enjoyed a close working
relationship with the IMF. A division of labor emerged between the two institutions. The
IMF took the lead, as it normally does, in agreeing on a macroeconomic stabilization plan
with the Government, and the Bank sought to emphasize those policy aspects of the plan it
considered most vital. The IMF also coordinated the external financing plan (leaving the
Bank, after the conclusion of the debt workout, to coordinate aid in the social sectors). The
Bank took the main role on structural reforms, sharing this with the IDB in the area of trade
(and, later, financial sector reform).
26Early on in the process of formulating a coordinated international approach, the international financial
institutions were keen not to be last in the clearance process. There were obviously political gains to be made
from being the first to clear, not least with the Peruvian Government. The financial gains are less clear.



Project Completion Report. TPRL and SAL                 22
The Structural Adjustment Loan
65.          The reforms supported by the SAL have proven to be among the most
important changes in the country's economic framework since 1968. The reform program
encompasses a change in development strategy from an inward-oriented import substitution
scheme to a market-oriented open economy. The program aims to limit the long-run role of
the Government to those activities in which it will be most efficient. In particular, the State
is abandoning its role as producer and planner. It is concentrating instead on providing a
stable legal framework for property rights, health, education, security and basic
infrastructure and fostering an environment of competition designed to promote a more
efficient allocation of resources.
66.          The current Administration remains committed to the structural reforms and to
current economic policy, and is expected to maintain that position until the end of its termn.
Furthermore, the Administration has signed a three-year Extended Fund Facility Program
with the IMF, that has defined an economic program for the period, setting goals and targets
consistent with increased stability.
67.          However, inflation and real interest rates remain high relative to international
standards, and financial intermediation remains limited. There are still concerns about the
sustainability of the economic program beyond 1995. On the macroeconomic side, the fears
are based on the fragile situation of the fiscal balances over the medium term, unless there is
an increase in the level of tax revenues and an increase -- very difficult to achieve -- in the
efficiency of public expenditure.
68.          In addition, some positive economic achievements are required to fully
consolidate the stabilization program. In particular, the recent recovery in growth must be
sustained, real interest rates must fall further, perhaps the real exchange rate must still
depreciate further, and the banking system must recover its health. The long-term
sustainability of the broad structural reforms and economic improvement implemented by the
Fujimori Administration will depend on long-term political support. Maintaining democratic
procedures, given the political turmoil of recent years, while providing continuity in
economic policy is a large challenge. On the other hand, after a quarter-century of economic
mismanagement and decline, many Peruvians share a stake in, and hope for, the economic
reforms.
69.          Peru's experience contains some lessons about the course of stabilization of a
highly repressed economy.
*     In a scenario of historical instability and persistent dollarization, the increase in the
demand for domestic real balances will be small despite a reduction in the inflation
rate.
*     In this framework, the efforts of the Central Bank to depreciate the real exchange rate
through direct purchases of foreign exchange will generate inflation.
*     Financial intermediation in dollars reduces the effectiveness of monetary policy but



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               23
deepens financial intermediation and provides a "strong" currency which facilitates
trade and exchange.
*     Real interest rates may remain high despite the opening of the capital account,
reflecting a combination of country risk, expectations of a real exchange depreciation,
and the level of taxation. In turn, this may attract foreign capital and further affect
the real exchange rate.
The Trade Policy Reform Loan
70.          The Trade Policy Reform Loan was based on a sweeping and simple reform
program which took place within a broader and supporting program of macro- and
microeconomic reforms. The essence of the reform was to move trade policy to a stance
approaching neutrality, i.e., where there is minimal policy discrimination between different
economic activities, between, firms, or between imports and exports. Peru's trade reform
was in general as radical and rapid as that observed in any other country, including Chile and
Bolivia. The relative roles of the Peruvian Government and World Bank (and IDB) in
making the case for and designing the reform are hard to distinguish. In the very early days
of the Government, the Bank's advice was important, but from early 1991 onwards, the
initiative in design was clearly that of the Government. There is no doubt of Peruvian
"ownership".
71.          The trade reforms have been completely effective in moving trade operations
to a more market-oriented system of incentives and greater integration with the world
economy. While the Peruvian economy has now begun a strong recovery from decades of
stagnation and a subsequent period of recession (induced by the stabilization), it is as yet
difficult to identify measurable changes in the structure or level of trade (beyond a rapid
growth in imports and some change in their composition), hence to measure the gains from
trade reforms. If the economic reforms are maintained, measurable benefits are soon likely
to be apparent.
72.          There are several features of Peru's trade reform that augur well for its
sustainability. First, the program was bold and rapid. This made it politically convincing.
Second, the rapid and virtually complete elimination of quantitative restrictions further added
to its credibility. Third, Peru has maintained a stable macroeconomic environment. If there
is a feature of the reform that bodes less well, it is that the reform took place without any
apparent real depreciation of the currency. Indeed, the perception among economic agents
was especially prevalent in 1991-92 that the currency was overvalued. There is no evidence
that, under the circumstances, the currency could have been much more depreciated, if only
because there was a strong inflow of short-term capital over which the Government did have
(and could have) only limited control. On the other hand, a more depreciated currency
would undoubtedly have helped in the "political economy" of trade reform by raising the
profitability of exporting and thereby more rapidly creating a new political constituency for
trade reform. The currency has depreciated in real terms since 1992, so that the problem of
perceptions has receded and the opportunities for profitable exporting have grown. More
generally, domestic politics are likely to be the main determinant of the sustainability of
Peru's economic reforms, including trade reform.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               24
73.          The experience of the Trade Policy Reform loan contains some lessons of a
narrower, more technical kind.
The Loan provided support to the agricultural surcharges scheme on the argument
that food price stabilization could benefit the economy. The scheme (providing a
price floor, but not a ceiling) was never the best design to stabilize prices. It has, in
the event, operated most unsatisfactorily, neither stabilizing prices nor benefitting
farmers. And it has threatened to open a protectionist breach that might be exploited
in attempts to reverse other measures of the trade reform. In retrospect, the Bank's
efforts should have been applied to fundamentally changing the scheme (a flat
surcharge, for instance, but preferably a complete elimination). Failing this, the Bank
should have left the scheme alone.
As more and more Bank member country undertake fundamental trade reforms, Bank
expertise needs to encompass, in addition to the "why" and "how" of trade reform, a
new set of issues which, broadly speaking, come under the heading of "trade
facilitation". Prominent among these are issues such as customs reform (including the
role of pre-shipment inspection), port reform, and implications of reform for transport
infrastructure. The Loan supported a customs reform program. IDB provided the
major input, negotiating project conditions with the Government and closely
supervising implementation. The Bank relied heavily on the IDB in the design and
supervision of this component, which appears to have been very effectively
implemented. This may have been a somewhat too passive stance for the Bank. The
Bank could benefit from its own expertise in customs issues.
Perul, having eliminated a large array of clearly protectionist non-tariff barriers, now
has to deal with residual non-tariff barriers imposed for health, safety, and security
reasons. Many of these barriers respond, in theory at least, to valid problems of
public health and so on. The issue is to be able to distinguish justifiable cases of
public-good barriers from unjustifiable cases and to design an efficient and non-
discriminatory mechanism. The Bank has played a leading role in identifying, and
developing techniques to measure, non-tariff barriers. It could now benefit from
developing its own expertise in regulations that minimize the costs and discriminatory
nature of health and safety controls.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL            25
REFERENCES
The World Bank-, Perti: Sector Refonn and Investment Review. November, 1990
Economic Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the Foundations for Development,
December 8. 1990
Demetris Papageorgiou, Armeane M. Choksi, and Michael Michaely, Liberalizing Foreign
Trade in Developing Countries. the Lessons of Experience, Washington, D.C.: the World
Bank, 1990
Additional Support for Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears, R91-70,
April 11, 1991 and Chairman's summing-up remarks
Peru: the Bank's Approach to a Country with Protracted Arrears, R91-171, July 12, 1991
Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Trade Policy Reform Loan in an
Amount Equivalent to US$300 Million to the Republic of Perui, P-5666-PE, January 10, 1992
The World Bank, Peru: Economic and Sector Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the
Foundations for Development, green cover, 10361-PE, February 18, 1992
Pinedo R., Hermogenes, Criterios y Normas de Importacion. Eliminacion de Barreras No
Arancelarias al Comercio Exterior: Inventario y Criterios para Mejorar la Aplicacion de las
Normas de Control Sanitario en la Importacion de Productos e Insumos Agrarios, Lima,
Marzo 1992
Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Structural Adjustment Loan in an
Amount Equivalent to US$300 Million to the Republic of Perul, P-5714-PE, March 2, 1992
Peru: Quarterly Review of Progress in the Bank's Workout Program, SecM92-697, May 28,
1992
Escobal, Javier, and Arturo Brisceno, El Sistema de Sobretasas Agricolas en el Peru.
Evaluacion y Recomendaciones, GRADE, 28 de Agosto de 1992
Peru: Quarterly Review of Progress in the Bank's Workout Program, SecM92-1310, October
1, 1992
Per.: Final Review of the Bank's Workout Program, R92-226, December 10, 1992
Bolofia Behr, Carlos, Cambio de Rumbo: el Programa Econ6mico para los '90, Segunda
Edici6n, Lima: Instituto de Economia de Libre Mercado, 1993



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               26
Cooperacion Tecnica a Superintendencia de Aduanas (SUNAD): Supervision de la Tercera
Fase: Informe de Mision, IDB, 1993 (mimeo)
Joint Audit Committee, Review of IBRD Policy on Workout Programs for Countries wvith
Protracted Arrears, JAC93-17, April 30, 1993
The World Bank, Perua at the Crossroads. Building a Modern State, Green Cover, 11943-
PE, June 30, 1993
Geoffrey J. Bannister, The Peruvian Pre-Shipment Inspection Program, International Trade
Division, World Bank, July 1993
World Bank, Peru: a Private Sector Assessment, Green Cover, 12096-PE, December 20,
1993



- 27 -
Annex 1: TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSU'ES AND OBJECTIVES                 ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990                    CONDITIONS OF LOAN                    STATUS
TO BOARD PRESEN'TATION                            SIGNING
INIPORT TARIFFS
Structure                            By March, 1991, 3-rate structure of 5, 15, 25%; Eliminate 5% rate (steel-industry  Completed. (D. Lg.
average of 17%; coeff. of variation of 23%.  inputs) by March 1992; unless        No. 668)
Increase neutralitv of tariff structure.                                          implementation during 1992 of an    (The alternative
Andean-Group common external tariff Andean-Group option
appears likely by that time.        has not been pursued.)
Preferences on the Domestic          Elimination of most regimes by September,    No reintroduction of discriminatory    Maintained.
Market                               1990 (major exceptions are educational &     preferences.
cultural institutions; treaty agreements.
Increase neutrality of tariff structure.
Specific Tariffs                     Removal of all surcharges by March 1991;     Publicize, by Board presentation, the   Study completed and
and Tariff Surcharges                variable surcharge on 5 agricultural products,    existing method of setting the variable  surcharge scheme
introduced in May 1991.                      surcharge. Reform of surcharge      revised (D. Ley No..
Increase transparency and efficiency of                                           scheme: agree study TOR by March   25528.)
agricultural protection.                                                           1992, agree implementation
guidelines by June 1992, enact reform
by September 1992.
Safeguard Mechanism                 Introduction of an anti-dumping/subsidy code in   Reform of anti-dumping code: agree   Study completed and
June 1991.                                   study TOR by Board Presentation,    code revised (D.S. No..
Minimize protective effect of                                                     enact reform by March 1992.          051-92-EF.)
anti-dumping protection.



- 28 -
Annex 1: TRADE POLICY REFORNM LOAN: POLICY MIATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                   ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990                    CONDITIONS OF 10).4N                 STAsT1IS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION                             SIGN ING
NON-TARIFF IMPORT
BARRIERS
Fornmal Protective Barriers          All prohibitions/ restrictions suspended by   No reintroduction ot non-larnl       Mdannined.
September 1990, permanently liberalized by    barriers.
Increase neutrality of protection    March 1991.
structure.
Health, Technical. Security, and     Various reforms from March to May 1991,       Reform of health and sanitary       Studv completed and
Miscellaneous Regulations            removing or simplifying controls: reintroduction  regulations & technical standards:  agricultural and
of controls in a few cases.                   agree study TOR by Board            pharmaceutical import
Reduce discriminatory effect of health                                             presentation, agree implementation  controls made more
and technical regulation.                                                          guidelines by March 1992. enact     flexible.(D.S. No..
reform by June 1992.                093-92-EF and D. Ley
No.. 25596).
Inmort Monopolies                    All public-enterprise monopolies removed in   No reintroduction of import         Maintained.
principle in March 1991; ENCI & ECASA         monopolies.
Increase neutrality of protection    monopolies removed in March 1991; Petroperu
structure.                           monopoly removed in August 1991.
Local-Content Regulations            All local-content regulations eliminated in March  No reintroduction of local-content  Maintained.
1991.                                        regulations.
Increase neutrality of protection
stnucture.
Controls on Second-Hand              Imports of most second-hand goods allowed in    No reintroduction of controls in   Maintained.
Imoorts                              November, 1990 and of machinery and vehicles  second-hand imports.
in March 1991; only controls on clothing, shoes,
Increase neutrality of protection    and bath fixtures remain.
structure.



- 29 -
Annex 1: TRADE POLICY' REFORM" LOAN: POLICY NtATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                   ACCOMPLISHMEENTS FROM N MIID-1990               CONIDITIONS OF LOAN                   STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION                             SIGNING
EXPORT REGIME
Taxes on Traditional Exports         After 10% surcharge from August to November  No raising of tax rates or application   Maintained.
Increase neutrality of export regime.    1990, taxes range from 0% to 10% by February  of tax to new products.
1991.
Subsidies for Non-Traditional        Reduction (August), then abolition (November    No re-introduction of export      Maintained.
Exports                              1990) of CERTEX; abolition of FENT in         subsidies
November 1990.
Increase neutrality of export regime.
Indirect Tax Treatment               Automation of Temp. Adm. scheme and its       No further action required.         Letter of Development
broadening to all exporters in March 1991;                                        Policy undertaking to
Reduce fiscal discrimination against    introduction of drawback scheme for non-                                       extend the drawback
exports.                             traditional exports in March 1991.                                                system has been signed
and sent to the Bank.
Export Contracts                     No new contracts are being issued and scheme is No further action required.       Maintained.
defunct.
Increase neutrality of export
regime.
Free Trade Zone                                                                    Any new or expanded zone may only  Existing free tmde
sell to the domestic market if import   zones not expanded
Reduce unfair competition in the                                                   taxes are paid.
domestic market.
Non-Tariff Export Controls           Removal of controls in March 1991.            No reintroduction of non-tariffs    Maintained.
export controls.
Increase neutrality of export regime.
Export Certification                                                               No further action required.         Maintained.
Increase neutrality of export regime.



- 30 -
Annex 1: TRADE POLICY REFORMI LOAN: POLICY MNATRIX -
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                   ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990                    CONDITIONS OF LOAN                    STATUS
TO BOARD PRESEN'TATION                            SIGNING
TRADE INSTITUTIONS
Non-Tariff Barriers                  ICE de-activated in June 1991, and its        No further action required.          Maintained.
promotional functions transferred to MICTI.
Eliminate institutional basis for
non-tariff protection.
Tariff Administration (MEF)          Creation of Control Commission for anti-      Procedures to ensure open, impartial   Completed.
dumping rules.                                anti dumping hearings to be agreed by  (D.S. No.. 133-91-EF
Minimize protective effect of anti-                                                loan negotiation.                    and
dumping legislation.                                                                                                    D.S. No. 051-92-EF)
Customs Service                      Transfer of some functions to private agents;  Agreement by Board presentation on   Action Plan carried out
monopoly on customs warehouses removed.      Action Plan; compliance with three    according to schedule.
I;.prove efficiency in processing                                                  phases of Action Plan, by Board
i:nports and raising revenue.                                                      presentation (1), by March 1992 (2),
and by June 1992 (3).
Export Promotion                     Function transferred in June 1991 from ICE to    No further action required.       Maintained.
MICTI.
Shift emphasis from selective
promotion to commercial intelligence.
Trade Neaotiation                    Creation in June 1991 of an inter-ministerial  No further action required.         No change.
committee, with an Office of Trade
Improve intergovernmental            Representative in MICTI.
coordination.
Trade Law                            August 1991 passage of a legislative Decree   No funher action required.           No change.
elevating to the status of law many of the trade
Provide legislative stability for    reforms passed since August 1990.
reformed trade regime.



- 31 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN!T LOAN: POLICY MIATRIX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -.
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES             ACCOMPLSHMENTS FROM MID-1990               CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
MACROECONOMIC ISSUES
Exchange Rate Reeime                 Unification and float.                       Maintain domestic-currency           Completed.
convenibility for all external
Improved resource allocation.                                                    transactions to a single type of
exchange rate.
Foreisn Exchange AUocation           Elimination of foreign exchange surrender    Non-reversal of policy.             Completed.
requirements and all other controls on current
and capital account transactions.
Foreign Currency Holdings            Removal of freeze on foreign exchange        The use of foreign currencies in the  Completed.
certificates of deposit. Dollar deposits    local financial system will continue.
Keep a fluid payments system in      increased 125% between August 1990 and July
the presence of a persistent         1991, up to a level of US$ 1814 million,
trend of dollarization of the        compared with US$ 1297 million in Sol-
economy,                             denominated liquidity.
External Debt Service                Resumed payments to all IFIs. Completed      Maintain payment to all IFMs and    Completed.
negotiations with Paris Club.               continue negotiations with all other
Restore access to international                                                   creditors aiming for the full
capital markets.                                                                  restoration of service.
Monetary Policv                      Creation of monetary base mainly to finance  Non-reversal of policy.             Completed.
the quasi-fiscal deficit and increase foreign
Gradual achievement of price         reserves of the Central Bank.
stability.
Credit Miarkets                      Interest rates allowed to be matket determined.   Interest rates will be allowed to  Completed.
continue to be established by market
Efficient allocation of credit.                                                   forces.
Market Alocation Mechanisms          All price and wage controls lifted.          Maintain market determination of    Completed.
prices and private sector wages.
Efficient resource allocation.
Fiscal Balance                       Consolidated Public Sector Operational Deficit   Adopt measures and an           Completed.
reduced to 6.5% of GDP in 1990 and an       implementation schedule satisfactory
Control of inflation.                expected 3.6% in 1991.                       to the Borrower and the Bank aiming
NFPS primary deficit reduced to 1% of GDP   for a level of Tax Revenues for the
in 1990 and expected to reach a 0.4% surplus    Central Administration of about 9.0%
in 1991.                                    of GDP. The primary deficit of the
NFPS will not be larger than 0.6% of
GDP (Jan.91-Dec.92) and there will
be no domestic financing of the
Consolidated Public Sector Balance,
defined as the deficit of the primary
balance added to the quasi-fiscal
deficit, plus interest payment on
internal and external debt.
Deficit Financina                    Internal financing of the CPS reduced to 3.3%  Central Bank creation of domestic  Completed.
in 1990 and expected to reach 0.5 % for 1991.    credit consistent with IMF targets.
Control inflation.                   Inflation reduced to 230% between August
1990-1991.



- 32 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOKN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES              ACCOMPLISHNIENTS FROM MMI-1990                CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                 STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Macroeconomic Indicators              Expected 1991 values:                          Performance indicators for 1992       Actual performance
(NOT CONDITIONALITIES):              for first three
quarters of 1992:
These indicators should not be         Central Administration Tax Revenue: 7.6% of    Central Administration Tax Revenue
interpreted as individual targets to  GDP;                                           about 9.0% of GDP:                    9.1% of GDP.
be met for loan compliance, but
rather as the Bank's guidelines to    Primary surplus of the non-financial public    Primary deficit of the non-financial  Surplus: 0. I% of
evaluate macroeconomic                 sector: 0.4% of GDP:                          public sector no larger than 0.6% of    GDP.
performance.                                                                         GDP;
Rate of increase in monetary base: 320%.      Rate of increase in monetary base
less than or equal to 40%:           37.8%
Stock of Central Bank of other
monetary liabilities in Soles always  2.5%.
less than 10% of monetary base.
FISCAL ISSUES                           Drastic increase in price of public sector goods   By October 31. 1992, the         Completed.
Tax Regime                            and services and frequent price adjustments    Government and the Bank will jointly
allow sharp recovery in tax revenues.         review taxes on exports, and bank
Simplification of tax system.         Simplification of tax regime. New regime       current account debits and interest to
Increase tax revenues and reduce      based upon taxes on income, wealth, value      assess the prospects of phasing them
highly distortionary taxes.            added, and selective consumption imports.     out within a specific timetable.
Elimination of most exemptions. Reduction of
some marginal tax rates. Simplification of
tariff regime and reduction of tariff rates to
three categories.
Enactment of Legislative Decree 666 regulating
VAT and selective excise taxes (September 11,
1991).
Supreme Decree enacted to interpret the
regulations created in Legislative Decree 666.
by establishing procedures for their application
(Supreme Decree 269-91-EF, November21,
1991, .



- 33 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN'T LOAN: POLICI' MATRIX
ISSt ES AND OBJECTIVES            ACCOMIPLISHNMENTS FRONI MID-1990             CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STATU'S
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Tax Administration                    POLIC} CHANGES BETVEEN MARCH                 The monitoring of large taxpayers    Completed
1991 & DECEMBER 1991                         will be expanded from 1,200 to 2.50()
Reintorce independence of                                                          firms.
SUNAT (the Peruvian tax collection    Diagnosis and design of strategy for structural
agency) and improve its efficiency as  reform to be implemented with the support of    By March 31, 1992, SUNAT will     Completed.
measured by number of taxpayers      Intemational Technical Assistance.            complete the process of personnel
and level of tax revenues.                                                         selection at the national level.
Legislative Decree 639 (March 18, 1991):
Provides the legal framework for the         By June 30. 1992, the new            Completed.
reorganization of personnel and the acquisition    infrastructure of computer
of basic (local) equipment.                  information systems will be installed
in Region I (primary taxpayers).
Implementation of the program of voluntary
resignation through incentives.              The process of implementation of a   Completed.
new registration system for
Personnel evaluation and selection with     tax-payers will continue to be carried
examinations in Lima.                        out on a priority basis.
Definition of the organizational structure and  Changes in the tax code, satisfactory  Completed.
structure of appointments to posts in the   to the Borrower and to the Bank, will
National Service Corps (Intendencias) and the  be introduced to allow for greater
Regional Service Corps I & 11                efficiency in the tracking of
infringements.
Legislative Decree 641 (June 26, 1991):
Simplifies system of sanctioning so as to allow
for implementation of moderate sanctions on a
massive scale.
Legislative Decree 673 (Sept. 24, 1991): Labor
law which affects employees of the new
SUNAT tax administration and made to
correspond to Law 4916 (Private Sector Labor
Law).
Revise-and-purge process of the primary
taxpayers' registry in existence and tax regime
grants first priority to the VAT.
Creation of a division for taxpayer account
sanctioning and/or termination at SUNAT,
charged with administering account closures
and developing sanctioning systems for the
Regional Service Corps (Superintendency
Resolution 326-91 -EF/SUNAT, November 6.
1991).
SUNAT increased the number of primary
taxpayers to 2,220 on December 6, 1991.



-34 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN'T LOAN: POLICY NIATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES             ACCONIPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990              CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STAI't'S
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Government Expenditure               Tight controls upon public sector wages.     No further actinn rcquired
and Ouasi-Fiscal Deficit             Reduction of public sector employment through
incentives (Supreme Decrees 004-91-PCM &
Increase the efficiency of           041-91-EF& Supreme Resolution 544-91-
provision of public goods.           INAPII). Introduction of a CMC (Cash
Reduction of administrative          Management Comminee), which spends only
discretionality.                     its available cash (Supreme Decree 227-90-EF,
Dec. 10, 1990 & General Public Sector Budget
Law, December, 1991). Postponement of
public investments. Limits to Banco Agrario
subsidized credit. Elimination of subsidized
credit to exporters.
A draft law which incorporates agreement on
substantive objectives satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank was enacted,
establishing the basis for reform of the
Peruvian public sector, redefining the scope of
government activities, and reforming personnel
policies, including the tenure system (Supreme
Decree 166-91-PCM, October 1991).
SOCIAL SECTOR ISSUES                   Social Emergency Program (SEP) initiated to  The Govemment will develop, by      Completed.
provide emergency food assistance and       January 31, 1992, a poverty
Poverty AUeviation                   medicines, mainly through NGOs, for 5        alleviation strategy and
months (8/90-12/90).                        implementation schedule, both
Develop well-targeted social                                                      acceptable to the Bank, outlining
safety net mechanisms and            With UNICEF assistance, a Plan of Action for   policies, and identifying priority
provide the context for individual   Child Welfare was prepared and endorsed by   programs and target groups. The
social programs and projects.        the Government in June 1991. It diagnoses    Government will adopt this strategy
problems and sets goals in the area of health,  by December 31, 1992.
education, water and sanitation, nutrition,
employment, and the problems of children in
difficult circumstances.
In August 1991, a temporary National Social
Compensation and Development Fund
(FONCODES) was created (Legislative Decree
657, August 15, 1991) to finance employment-
generating projects benefitting the population in
extreme poverty. FONCODES's statute was
approved through Supreme Decree 163-91 -
PCM, October 20, 1991.
Health and Nutrition                 The Ministry of Health defined short-term    The Government will develop profiles   Completed (two
objectives for 1991: reduce mortality       for priority projects in primary health   profiles).
Improve the provision of low-cost    associated with high-prevalence illness; expand    and nutfition acceptable to the Bank
primary care to the poor.            health coverage in poor areas: rehabilitate  by April 30, 1992.
social infrastructure; and upgrade the capacity
of professional staff.



- 35 -
Annex 2: STRUCTIJItAL ADkJUST'MENT LOAN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES            ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990               CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING              STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Improve the cost effectiveness and  Generalized food subsidies were abolished and    The Government will prepare a  Completed.
impact of nutrition assistance to   the monopoly positions of ECASA and ENCI    national nutrition policy acceptable to
the poor.                           were eliminated (Supreme Decree 066-91 -EF y   the Bank, based on a review of
Supreme Decree 067-91-EF, March 27, 1991).   existing food assistance programs,
and will recommend reforms
necessary to improve cost
effectiveness by April 30. 1992. The
Government will initiate the first
stage of these refortns in food
assistance programs, including
streamlining the role of public
agencies, by June 30. 1992.
Education                            The Ministry of Education defined broad short-   The Government will develop profiles   Completed (three
term objectives for 1991 (to expand the    for priority projects in pre-primary  profiles).
Increase internal efficiency of     coverage and quality of primary education and    and primary education acceptable to
education and improve the quality   link technical training to the job market) and  the Bank by April 30, 1992.
and coverage of pre-primary and     medium-term priorities (to improve the quality
primary education,                  of education, universalize education for 6-14
year old children, and upgrade the quality of
teachers.)
The Ministry of Education initiated an
emergency program to feed schoolchildren one
meal a day and use the school as a locus to
introduce tuberculosis detection and improved
health practices.
PRIVATIZATION ISSUES
The Govemment announced its intention to   The Government will establish the   Completed.
Privatization of State               reduce SEA and issued, on March 12, 1991, a    institutional framework defined in
Entrepreneurial Activity (SEA)       Supreme Decree (No. 041-91-EF) authorizing  Decree 674 by June 30. 1992.
the privatization of 23 companies.
Improve efficiency in allocation
of resources through development    The Government issued the Law for the
of the private sector, avoiding the  Promotion of Private Sector Investment in
possibility of fiscal drain.         State Enterprises, which called for (i) the
creation of a commission, COPRI, to be
responsible for the design and control of
privatization, thus centralizing the decision
making process, and (ii) the creation of Special
Committees to implement the privatization of
either one company or several within a sector
(Legislative Decree 674, September 27, 1991).
The Government issued a law providing a legal
framework for foreign investment, through
guarantees on the stability of the fiscal regime
(Legislative Decree 662, September 2, 1991).
The Government issued a Legislative Decree
which establishes rights, guarantees, and
obligations applicable to national and foreign
investors (Legislative Decree 757, November
13, 1991).
The Government issued Legislative Decree 674
which defines the legal and institutional
framework for privatization (September 27,
1991).



- 36 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES              ACCOMPLISHMEN'TS FRONI MID-1990              CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STATUS
TO BOARI) PRESENTATION
SEA Privatization in Bankine          The Government abolished the Financial       The Government will develop an        Completed.
System Nationalization Law and included      overall action plan and
Banco Popular del Peru in the list of 23     implementation schedule acceptable
companies to be privatized (DS no.041-91-EF).  to the Borrower and the Bank for
The Govemment decided to restructure public    divestiture in the sector bv June 30.
commercial banks with a new Banking Law in    1992.
April 1991 (General Law for Banking,
Financial, and Savings Institutions: Legislative
Decree 637). The Government sold its 15 %
share of Sogewiese Leasing on June 10. 1991.
SEA Privatization in Fisheries        The Government eliminated state monopoly of    The Government will develop a       Completed.
fishmeal production in March 1991 and began  policy framework for the sector and a
a partial sale of the assets of Pescaperu.   firm-by-firm divestiture strategy
acceptable to the Borrower and the
The Govemment issued a Law for the           Bank, including an action plan and
Promotion of Private Investment in the fishery    implementation schedule for
sector, prohibiting monopolistic practices and  Flopesca, Pescaperu, Epsep, and
authorizing the Ministry of Fisheries to grant  CERPER by June 30. 1992.
concessions to the private sector (Legislative
Decree 750, November 13, 1991).
SEA Privatization in Minine           The Govemment sold its 19% stake in Minas    The Govemment will develop a          Completed.
Buenaventura on July 19, 1991.               policy framework for the sector and a
firm-by-firm divestiture strategy
The Govemment issued a Law for Private       acceptable to the Borrower and the
Sector Investment in the Mining Sector which  Bank, including an action plan and
creates conditions for the development of    implementation schedule for Minero
private investment (Legislative Decree 708,  Peru, Centromin Peru, and Hierro
November 14, 1991.).                         Peru by June 30, 1992
SEA Privatization in Oil and          Petroperu increased the contracting-out of   The Government will develop a         Completed.
Gas                                   exploration and development to the private   policy framework acceptable to the
sector.                                      Borrower and the Bank, including an
implementation schedule for private
Petroperu monopoly eliminated (Legislative   sector participation in exploration, oil
Decree 655, August 7 1991).                  refining, distribution, and gas
production and distribution by June
30, 1992.
SEA Privatization in Power            In February 1991, The Govemment authorized    The Govemment will develop a         Completed.
entrance of private investors to the power   policy framework acceptable to the
sector; this included participation of       Borrower and the Bank, including an
autoproducers. co-producers, and             implementation schedule for private
concessionaires (Law 25304).                 sector participation in power
generation, transmission, and
On July 19 1991, The Govemment authorized    distribution by June 30. 1992.
the sale of its participation in regional power
companies (Legislative Decree 649).
The Govemment issued a Law for the
Promotion of Private Sector Investment in the
Power Sector. Private investors will have
access to the sector by means of a regime of
concessions which will permit the generation
and/or distribution and/or commercialization of
electric energy (Legislative Decree 693,
Novembert6, 1991).



- 37 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOA-N: POLICY NMATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES             ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID1990                CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING               STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
SEA Privatization in                 The Govemnment enacted a new                 The Govemnment will develop a       Completed.
Telecommnunications                  Telecommunications Law enabling competition    policy framework acceptable to the
and private investment (Legislative Decree  Borrower and the Bank. including an
702, November 8, 1991 and Legislative Decree   implementation schedule promoting
766, November 15, 1991).                    private sector investment in the
telecommunications sector by June
The Govemment created the Enterprise for    30 1992
Postal Services of Peru, S.A. (SERPOST) and
declared that the incorporation of private
investors in SERPOST is of national interest
(Legislative Decree 685, November 5, 1991).
SEA Privatization in Transport       For ports, The Government transferred to the  The Government will develop a      Completed.
private sector all stevedoring work, the loading   strategy acceptable to the Borrower
and unloading of cargo, and the maintenance of   and the Bank, including an
container-handling equipment, and issued    implementation schedule to promote
Supreme Decree 039-91-TC on November 5,     private sector investment in railways,
1991, specifying actions to be taken for labor  ports, airports, and air transport by
reduction in CPV (shipping company).        June 30. 1992.
The Govemment liberalized urban
transportation tariffs (Legislative Decree 651,
July 25 1991).
The Govermnent liberalized air transpon
tariffs, authorized the entrance of new
companies, and issued Legislative Decree 648
(July 17 1991), authorizing the privatization of
AeroPeru. The Government also transferred
part of the activities of CORPAC (airport
authority) to the private sector (Legislative
Decree 723, November 11 1991).
The Govemment authorized the Ministry of
Transports to grant concessions to private
companies for rehabilitation and maintenance
of highways (Legislative Decree 676, October
6 1991).
The Govenument declared private sector
investment in Enafer to be of national interest,
prohibited any form of monopoly and
restrictive practices, and authorized the
Ministry of Transpon and Communications to
grant concessions, through a public bidding
process, to the private sector for rehabilitation
and maintenance of portions of the railway
lines. Tariffs and freights of service operators
are market-determined according to supply and
demand (Legislative Decree 690, November 6,
1991).



- 38 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES             ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990               CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STATllS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
SEA Privatization in Water and       Sedapal began bidding process to delegate the  The Government will develop a      Completed.
Seweraze                             task of billing in part of the city of Lima to an    strategy acceptable to the Borrower
extemal private firm.                       and the Bank, including an
implementation schedule to promote
The Govemment issued a Law for the          private sector participation in the
Promotion of Private Sector Investment in the    sector by June 30, 1992.
area of Water/Sanitation, specifically in the
activities of exploration of potable water,
sewage, waste disposal, recycling of water, and
public cleaning (Legislative Decree 697,
November7, 1991).
The Govemment authorized Senapa and
Cortapa to undergo an economic and financial
stabilization and an administrative
rationalization, including staff reduction and a
program of incentives for voluntary retirement
(Supreme Decree 171-91-PCM November 7,
1991).
SEA Privatization in Industry        The Government announced its intention to    The Govemment will develop a         Completed.
reduce SEA by including several industrial  divestiture strategy acceptable to the
companies on the list of 23 designated for  Borrower and the Bank, including an
privatization (Supreme Decree 041-91-EF,     implementation schedule for the sale
March 12 1991).                             of shares in all companies where the
Govemment is a minority
The legal and institutional framework       shareholder. The Govemment should
established by Legislative Decree 674 allows  bring to the point of sale at least 6 of
for privatization in all sectors of economic  these companies.
activity.
AGRICULTURAL ISSUES
Private Sector Development in          Enactment of the Agricultural Sector         No further action required.
Agriculture                            Investment Promotion Law (Legislative Decree
653, August 1, 1991).
Azriculttral Commoditv               Natinnal rice-marketing monopoly (ECASA)     By September 30, 1992: (i) liquidate    Substantially
Marketinz                            abolished (Supreme Decree 066-91-EF, March    ECASA; and (ii) implement Supreme    Completed. While
27 1991). National input-marketing company  Decree 148-90-PCM, authorizing       ECASA has already
Increased efficiency in trade and    (ENCI) downscaled (Supreme Decree 148-90-    ENCI's reorganization.               ceased its operations.
production. Reduction of public       PCM & 084-91-PCM, April 17, 1991).                                               laid-off its
sector involvement.                                                                                                    employees, and
Freedom of entry for private sector (Supreme                                     established a
Decree 066-91-EF, March 27, 1991).                                               liquidation
commission, the
process of liquidation
is still underway.
ENCI is being
downsized. To date
(6/2194), ENCI's
liquidation
commission is still in
the process of selling
the company's assets.
Non-reversal of the elimination of
State marketing monopolies          Completed.
established by Supreme Decree 066-
91 -EF.



- 39 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOA.N: POLICY' MIATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES               ACCOM_LISHMENTS FROM NID-1990                 CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                 ST_ _LS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Land Tenure/Registrv and               Restrictions removed: land freely transferable;    Maintain all provisions retforming  Completed.
Titling                                all regular rights of Peru's civil code extended    land tenure, agriculrural labor, and
to the agricultural sector; individuals and   liberalizing agri-business activirs in
Improved resource allocatiotn,         corporations permitted to own land; size limit    the "Ley de Promoci6n de las
improved access to formal              of individual agricultural estates increased;  Inversiones del Sector Agricola"
economy for small landowners.          promotion of private investment in            (Legislative Decree 653).
development of uncultivated land. Speedy
mechanism established to guarantee land
ownership against expropriation and squatters.
Agricultural Credit                    Elimination of credit subsidies through Banco  Non-reversal of policy liberalizing   Completed.
Agrario (BA). Reduction of Central Bank       the use of land as collateral.
Improved resource allocation,          credit to BA. Abolition of BA's pnvileged
improved access to credit for          access to collateral of agricultural producers.  Maintain legal framework allowing   Completed.
small producers, and expansion of                                                     agricultural-sector access to private
access to commercial banks.            Liberalization of use of land as collateral.   commercial bank credit.
Agricultural Water Usage               Legislative Decree (No. 653, August 1, 1991:    Maintain all provisions on water     Completed.
Agricultural Sector Investment Promotion Law)   usage included in Legislative Decree
Promotion of better water usage.       provided legal framework allowing transfer of    653.
irrigation network to private producer
associations.
Agricultural Trade Policy              Deregulation of all domestic and foreign trade  Maintain trade liberalization        Completed.
of agricultural products and imports.         provisions of Legislative Decree 653.
Better resource allocation.
Removal of anti- agricultural bias.    Unified exchange rate eliminated bias against
Consolidate macroeconomic              agricultural exports and allowed foodstuff
stability.                             imports without exchange rate subsidies.
Elimination of exemptions for agricultural
imports.
Agricultural Pricing Policy            Floating exchange rate remained and            The Government will not introduce     Completed.
agricultural credit subsidies abolished. In   any new mechanism for price control
Maintain efficiency in resource        March 1991, specific protective tariffs for    of agricultural products and there will
allocation.                            selected agricultural products were introduced.    be no reversal in its policy of
These were replaced in May 1991, by a         abolishing interest rate subsidies.
variable surcharge scheme designed to lead to a
landed price which would not exceed the
previous five-year average international price
plus a 15 % tariff. The scheme covers: wheat
flour, pasta, corn, sorghum, rice, and sugar.
Dried milk continued to receive a fixed
surcharge.
LABOR ISSUES
Probationary EmDloyment               Creation of a more flexible probationary       Non-reversal of policy.               Completed.
period. Initial period of three months
Improve quality of employee           extendable to a total of six months, provided
screening and reduce turnover         the work requires a training and adaptation
costs.                                period. In the case of managerial and other
positions of trust, the period is extendable to
one year (Job Promotion Law, Legislative
Decree 728, An. 43, November 12, 1991).



- 40 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN: POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES              ACCOMPLISHMENTS FROM MID-1990                CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                STATB'S
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Temworarv Emplovment                 Supreme Decree 077-90-TR issued, allowing     Non-reversal of policy.              Completed.
longer fixed-term contracts for all sectors and
Increase flexibility in labor        under most circumstances (few relevant
markets and reduce turnover          restrictions exist).
costs.
Tempoiary employment authorized for
initiation or increase in work load, changing
labor market needs, or for retraining of
employees (Legislative Decree 728, arts. 100-
102, November 12, 1991).
CTS (ComDensation for Time           Firms must now deposit semesterly the full   Non-reversal of policy.               Completed.
and Services Rendered)               amount due in special accounts for which
financial institutions and firms compete.
Improve administration of           Worker specifies account to be held in national
system. Reduce indexation            or foreign currency and interest on these
problems. Increase supply of         accounts is exempt from income tax. CTS
long-term funds to financial         funds can be withdrawn by workers under
intermediaries.                     specific circumstances (Legislative Decree 650,
luly 24, 1991).
SOCIAL SECURITY  ISSUES                Creation of the framework for a Private      Non-reversal of policy and            Completed.
System of Pensions (SPP), to complement the  presentation of an action plan and
IPSS (Peruvian Social Security System)    IPSS. SPP benefits managed by the          implementation schedule, acceptable
Administrators of Pension funds (AFP) which    to the Borrower and to the Bank, on
will initiate activities to partially or totally  the partial or complete privatization
privatize the system by July 28, 1992        of the system by September 30,
(Legislative Decree 724, November 11, 1991).   1992.
Administration of Health and          Separation of accounts for revenue, but not   Complete the separation of all health    Completed.
Pension Areas                         expenditures.                                 and pension fund accounts (except
administrative expenses) by June 30
Improve financial management.                                                       1992.
Collection of Contributions           Collection system streamlined. Employers can    Non-reversal of policy.            Completed.
complete form estimating contribution due and
Avoid losses from under-reporting     make payment at any commercial bank.
by contributors.
Resource Manayement                   Fund deposits placed in official and private  Non-reversal of policy.              Completed.
banks.
Greater efficiency.
Supervision and Control               None.                                         The extemal audit of financial       Substantially
statements, involving income         Completed.
Determine the administrative and                                                    (pension and health) and expenditures   In December 1992,
financial situation of IPSS.                                                       (pension) accounts for 1991 will be   the Govemment hired
completed by October 31. 1992.      the external auditors
IPSS, as fund interFnediator, will be    through Resolution of
subject to periodic independent      the Controller's
auditing. These audits will include  Office No. 345-92-
not only financial control but also  CG.
administrative and operational
diagnoses and recommendations.
N'SS Revenue Collection               Contribution rates to IPSS were not increased.    The total contribution rate to IPSS  Completed.
Collection ceilings and some deductions were  will not be increased.
Increase revenue and force            eliminated.
efficiency gains without increasing
contribution rates.



- 41 -
Annex 2: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN: POLICY' MIATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES               ACCOMIPLISHMIENTS FROMI MID-1990               CONDITIONS OF LOAN SIGNING                  STATUS
TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Phvsical Assets of IPSS                 Newk rental contracts and sale of properry to  Non-re%ersid of polics                 Completed
reflect market prices.
Greater efficiency
IPSS Personnel                          No renewal of contracts for temporary          Reduce number of employees by an       Completed. IPSS
personnel.                                     additional 7,000.                      personnel reduced by
Increased efficiency.                   7,700 resignations through early retirement                                           more than 18,00().
incentives.



Annex 3                           The Structural Adjustment Loan
42
ANNEX 3
THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Historical and Economic Context'
1.           An environment of increasing political and economic instability prevailed in
Peru over the three decades that ended in 1990. Expansionist policies produced creeping
inflation and periodic balance of payment crises, followed by a series of unsuccessful
stabilizations. In this period, economic policy varied widely through the different regimes,
but concurred, by and large, in an inward-oriented development strategy and an escalating
intervention of the State in the economy. The model of import-substitution predominated
throughout, characterized by tariff protection and eventual quantitative restrictions to trade.
2.            The govermnent deternined key prices and owned important enterprises. The
number of state enterprises increased from 29 in 1968 to more than 200 by the end of 1989.
Most of these companies operated at a deficit, were state monopolies, and were plagued with
political interference. This period was also characterized by economic mismanagement,
resulting in hyperinflation, financial repression, multiple exchange rates, stagnation and
higher level of absolute poverty. The economy "survived" by substituting the dollar for the
domestic currency and enlarging the "informal" sector.
3.            By the end of the 1980s, there was hyperinflation, fueled by an expansionist
monetary policy and an increase in velocity as people substituted away from the domestic
currency. Monetary growth was used primarily to finance government expenditures or
transfers, especially to provide tax credit to the agricultural sector and to non-financial public
enterprises.
4.            To repress inflation, successive governments repeatedly imposed price
controls. By the end of 1989, all products were subject to some kind of government
regulation. Basic staples and public services were fixed by the Government, but had to be
revised periodically to account for inflation. The direct participation of the State in the
determination of prices was reinforced by the fact that the government-controlled public
enterprises monopolized various areas of activity.
5.           Interest rates were constrained by binding ceilings which were significantly
below inflation. Lacking indexed financial instruments and faced with significant restrictions
See also: World Bank, Peru: Economic and Sector Reforns to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the
Foundations for Developmnent, green cover, 10361-PE, February 18, 1992; and World Bank, Peru at the
Crossroads: Building a Modem State, Green Cover, 11943-PE, June 30, 1993.



Annex 3                           The Structural Adjustmenr Loan
43
on capital mobility, the dollar became first a store of value and unit of account, and then a
medium of exchange. By the end of the decade, only petty transactions were made in soles.
6.            Exports were subject to compulsory surrender of receipts to the Central Bank,
in exchange for domestic currency at one of the multiple sets of government-determined
exchange rates. Those were adjusted to compensate for inflation, but with protracted delays.
The disparity in exchange rates, which were fixed arbitrarily, generated black markets and
rent-seeking activities to gain access to a better rate. In addition, the existence of illegal
export activities (drug dealing and smuggling) precipitated the emergence of a parallel
"black" exchange rate market.
7.            Foreign trade was discouraged because of high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. Imports were severely restricted, with explicit bans on some final products,
quantitative restrictions, and licenses, among others. On the other hand, capital goods and
industrial inputs not only were permitted, but received preferential treatment. Together they
accounted for 79 percent of total imports for the period covering 1988-1990. In order to
generate the necessary foreign exchange, exports were encouraged through a promotion
scheme based on credit subsidies, but which was inconsistent with the implicit taxation of the
required surrender of foreign exchange at one of the appreciated exchange rates. Overall,
exports accounted for about 15 percent of GDP for the period covering 1988-1990. The
main source of export revenues was mining products, copper in particular. Other traditional
exports included oil, fishmeal, coffee, and cotton. In addition, a diversified set of non-
traditional export increased its share over time, contributing about US$ 1.0 billion to export
earnings.
8.            Capital-outflows restrictions to restrain capital flight were consistent with
domestic financial repression. Profit remittances, royalty and interest payments were
temporarily prohibited. In 1985-90, the Garcia Administration unilaterally announced that its
debt service would be limited to only ten percent of exports. Debt service to the multilateral
institutions was stopped and large arrears accumulated to these entities. This position forced
the IMF to declare Peru as ineligible for funding and the World Bank to declare loans to
Peru in iion-accrual. Consequently, Peru was isolated from international capital markets. In
1990, total external debt amounted to more than US$ 20 billion, most of which was in
arrears.
9.            Capital inflows were welcome but understandably very scarce. The country
did not attract direct foreign investment, in part, because of its explicitly adverse legislation.
Investors were subject to discriminatory treatment by nationality, had strict regulations for
dividend remittances, and had difficulty gaining access to certain activities.
10.          Government finances were in a state of collapse and depended heavily on
inflationary finance. Tax pressure, measured by the ratio of tax collection to GDP reached
its historic low record at about 5 percent in 1990, as a result of an inadequate tax system as



Annex 3                        The StructuralAdjustment Loan
44
well as lax administration of the tax collection authority. The tax system was extremely
complex, exhibiting numerous taxes, high dispersion of marginal tax rates, and many
exemptions. The legislation, besides being complicated and unstable, was plagued with
loopholes, and there were no appropriate provisions against inflation to protect from late
payments. Indirect tax revenues were low due to controlled prices and poor collection
procedures. The tariff system exhibited a high dispersion and resulted in an extremely high
average rate which provided protection to the domestic industrial sector. In addition, lack of
supervision and control from the tax administration allowed widespread tax evasion.
11.         Dwindling government revenues were accompanied by a halt in public
investment. However, public employment increased significantly in the period, at wage
levels which although low, were subject to periodic indexation. This was possible with
Central Bank direct transfers that took the form of credit at no interest.
12.         Government regulation of labor and agricultural markets adversely affected the
efficient allocation of resources, hampered the development of new working opportunities,
and blocked the progress of agriculture. To "protect" workers, the regulations promoted
strict labor stability, under which the worker gained tenure after a three-month probationary
period. Temporary contracting of personnel was very limited. This regulation increased the
(fixed) costs of operating firms and magnified their exposure to fluctuations in demand. The
result of the drastic reduction in labor mobility was that the fornal labor market shrank, and
the "informal" economy gained momentum.
13.         Also to "protect" workers against health, accident, old-age and layoff risks the
regulatory framework enacted mandatory health and pension insurance with the National
Social Security Institute (IPSS) and mandatory severance payments for laid-off workers under
the "Provision for Social Benefits". This latter scheme can also be understood as a
mandatory savings program that the company managed on behalf of the worker. Both the
pension plan and the severance provision behaved as unfunded schemes, one managed by
IPSS and the other by the company itself.
14.         Furthermore, the severance provision provided an additional income tax shield
as changes in the nominal provision were charged to labor costs and could be deducted from
taxable income. Nevertheless, the scheme put the company under financial pressure as, in
the macroeconomic scenario depicted above, it did not have the means of accumulating in
real terms (or at least was not efficient in doing so) the resources needed to meet severance
payments when they were to mature, and not all could manage to get subsidized financing.
15.         The Social Security system became unviable. Its management was deplorable,
employment increased five-fold, and the accounting system was unauditable. The collection
system was slow and inefficient. The Institution had become, by the end of the 1980s, one
of the most important real estate owners in the country, but rental fees charged were far
below market levels. Besides, the pension plan, which became a benefit-defined pay-as-you



Annex 3                         The StructuralAdjustmenr Loan
45
go system, became financially unviable, at the given contribution rate and level of evasion.
with the aging of the population structure of the country, aggravated by the practice of
granting pensions with only five years of contributions. Firms considered contribution to
Social Security as taxes to finance the government, and avoided depositing funds withheld
from employees.
16.         Finally, the regulatory framework prohibited private ownership of land for
commercial purposes, with minor exceptions, and prohibited using land as collateral for
credit. As a result, farmers were rejected for commercial credits and had to resort to
subsidized credit from the state development bank (which in turn received its funding from
the Central Bank). In addition, agricultural exports received one of the lowest exchange
rates available, and Peruvian staples in the domestic market had to compete with foodstuffs
imported at preferential exchange rates by the state import monopoly.
The Adjustment Program
The Government's Economic Program
17.         The present Administration implemented, shortly after assuming office in late
July 1990, the first stage of a bold stabilization-cum-structural reform program, with the
purpose of achieving macroeconomic stability and reintegrating the country into the
international financial community. In March 1991, additional reforms were implemented in
trade, financial, and labor markets.
18.          The measures adopted implied a drastic change with the past. The new
Administration shifted from a multiple-exchange crawling peg to a unified floating exchange
rate system. Compulsory surrender of export receipts and all controls on current- and
capital-accounts transactions were abolished. In addition, most price controls were
eliminated, including a defacto elimination of interest rates ceilings.
19.          Monetary expansion was limited mainly to purchases of foreign currency by
the Central Bank to accumulate foreign reserves. Central-Bank financing of the central
government was explicitly prohibited. A cash management committee managed State
finances on a cash basis only. In order to sustain this situation, the Government undertook
further fiscal reforms aimed at increasing tax revenues and improving government
expenditure management.
20.          To increase tax revenues, the Government redefined the Peruvian tax system
and reorganized the tax administration authority, SUNAT, and the customs bureau, SUNAD.
The new system was based on five types of taxes covering income of individuals and
corporations, wealth of firms and individuals, value-added, selective consumption (excise),
and import duties.



Annex 3                        The StrucruralAdjustment Loan
46
21.          Based on the premise that collections were low because of tax evasion and
numerous exemptions, not necessarily because of low marginal tax rates, most exemptions
were eliminated. In addition, the income tax rate on firrns was reduced from 35 to 30
percent, the tax on net equity of corporations was unified at two percent, and the highest
bracket of personal income tax rate was reduced from 45 to 37 percent. For corporations,
the Government instituted a minimum income tax, set at two percent of total assets net of
depreciation, of which the two percent net equity tax could be deducted. Selective
consumption (excise) tax rates -- except fuel and gas oil taxes-- were reduced to three with a
maximum of 50 percent. Fuel and gas excise taxes remain one of the most important taxes,
accounting for about 15 percent of government revenues. Rates are set above 80 percent,
and the tax base (fuel prices) is constantly adjusted for inflation to avoid its erosion in real
terms. Finally, import tariffs were initially reduced to a three-tier -- and later to a two-tier --
system, with rates set at 15 percent and 25 percent.
22.          However, the value added tax rate was increased from 14 percent to 16
percent, temporary taxes of 10 percent on exports, (of one percent on net wealth and insured
assets) were imposed, and emergency taxes on current-account debits and the excise tax on
interests were instituted. Through the process, numerous taxes were eliminated. At different
stages of the program, including the temporary taxes of 10 percent on exports and of one
percent on net wealth and insured assets. Prior to the SAL Board presentation, an
emergency tax on current-account debits and the excise tax on interests were being
maintained, but were eliminated immediately after?.
23.          The approach to strengthen SUNAT was to improve the quality of the
personnel and equipment employed at tax collection. To achieve this, SUNAT laid off
redundant personnel, and increased its salary scales to attract more qualified professionals.
To fund the program, SUNAT was endowed with a budget of up to two percent of total tax
revenues.
24.          On the government expenditure side, public sector wages were under strict
control and a sweeping reduction in personnel took place. Wage increases had to be
approved by the central government, after wage indexation was eliminated.
25.          Finally, to consolidate the process of economic stabilization, the Government
agreed to a Rights Accumulation Program (RAP) with the IMF in September 1991, setting
several macroeconomic targets to be achieved during the performance period between
January and December 1992 that complemented the efforts made by the Govermnent on its
own.
Changes in the Legal and Regulatory Framework
26.          Together with the stabilization program and policy reforms, a process of
drastic deregulation was developed. The Government abrogated all monopolistic and



Annex 3                        The StructuralAdjustmenr Loan
47
restrictive practices throughout the economy, including the monopoly rights of 12 public
firms.
27.         In the financial sector, the Government passed a new banking law which
promotes universal banking, accompanied by stronger prudential regulations. This legislation
abolished the nationalization of the banking system passed by the previous Government. The
law allowed financial intermediation to take place in US dollars. However, dollar-
denominated accounts were subject to higher marginal reserve requirements. It also created
a limited deposit insurance scheme to reduce the possibilities of runs during banking crises.
In addition, other insurance premiums were allowed to be market determined, and insurance
monopolies were abolished.
28.         Air transport activities were opened to private capital, without regard to
nationality, but without committing to an open skies policy. Foreign shipping firms were
given access to the domestic market, and the port loading/unloading monopoly was
abolished. Finally, the commission in charge of setting transport tariff policy was dismissed.
29.         The Government started an extensive privatization program in all sectors of the
economy. To attract foreign investors, the Government permitted dividend and royalties
remittances, eliminated any kind of discrimination on local investors, and announced a
program of immigration for foreigners who bring in funds for investment. In this manner,
Peruvian treatment of foreign investment became one of the most open in the world.
30.         To improve the efficiency of labor markets, the tenure law was made more
flexible, expanding provisions for layoffs and increasing the probationary period from three
up to six months. In the case of managerial and other positions of trust, this period is now
extendable to one year. Also, regulations for contracting foreign workers were simplified.
In addition, the Government allowed fixed-term contracts for all sectors and, under most
circumstances, with few exemptions. Companies were allowed to hire workers temporarily
for new or increased work loads, changing labor market needs, or retraining of employees.
31.         Finally, the severance savings scheme was completely reformed from a pay-as-
you-go company-managed scheme to a fully-funded financial institution-managed one, under
the name of Compensation for Time and Services Rendered (CTS). The severance-cum-
unemployment saving scheme has become a source of long-term funds to financial
intermediaries. Under the new program, firms must deposit the full amount due every
semester in a special account of the financial institution designated by the worker. The
currency denomination of this account (national or foreign) is also chosen by the worker.
Interest received on these accounts is exempt from income tax. Even though the nature of
the scheme is one of mandatory savings to cover the worker from an unexpected lay-off,
workers can withdraw their CTS funds under some circumstances.



Annex 3                         The Structural Adjustment Loan
48
32.          In 1991, the Government enacted the Agricultural Sector Investment
Promotion Law, which wiped out the Agrarian Reform Law of 1969. The new legislation
redefined the framework in which trade, price settlement, and credit practices related to
agriculture should take place. It determined a major role for the private sector in the
development of agriculture.
33.          All rights under Peru's Civil Code were extended to the agricultural sector.
Moreover, individuals and corporations were free to own land, relaxing size-limit restrictions
for individual agricultural estates. Thus land can now be freely traded and leased to any
individual or legal entity, whether Peruvian or foreign, with some minor exceptions.
Property rights were also defined on water usage for agricultural purposes, by modifying the
legal framework to allow the transfer of irrigation networks to private producers'
associations. To guarantee land ownership against expropriation and third-party claims, the
Administration simplified the registry and titling mechanism for rural property, although the
new system remains to be implemented.
34.          All domestic and foreign trade in agricultural inputs and products was
deregulated and state participation in foodstuff trading was severely reduced. ECASA, the
national rice-marketing monopoly, was declared to be in the process of liquidation. ENCI's
grain and fertilizer import monopoly was removed, and ENCI began a process of
reorganization to make it self-financed. Moreover, the company scheduled its privatization
for 1994. Also, the procedures for verifying the quality of agricultural products and
medicines were considerably relaxed, allowing for certificates to be issued by private
laboratories.
35.          The Government also removed price controls on agricultural products. The
price support scheme adopted for some selected staples was replaced in May 1991, by a
variable surcharge scheme designed to lead to a landed price equivalent to the previous five-
year average international price plus the correspondent 15 percent tariff. The staples covered
are dried milk, wheat and wheat-derived products, corn, sorghum, rice, and sugar.
36.          Finally, the Government abolished directed credit policies, including those
directed at agriculture, and modified the legal framework to allow the use of land as
collateral, to facilitate access to private commercial bank credit to the agricultural-sector.
Farmers were allowed to mortgage their land holdings in excess of five hectares. In
addition, the Government abolished the privileged access to the collateral of agricultural
producers that Banco Agrario (BA) used to enjoy. In the new environment of fiscal
discipline, subsidized credit from Banco Agrario was eliminated.



Annex 3                        The Structural Adjustment Loan
49
Preparation and Design of the SAL
37.          The Bank's operations in Peru were suspended in 1987, when the Board
declared the country in non-accrual status, after the Government of Peri was six months
overdue in payments. The last loan to the Republic of Peru was granted in 1984.
38.          The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was the second of three policy loans
within the Bank's new approach to debt workout problems with Peri, as a country with
protracted arrears. Arrears clearance permitted the Bank to restart large lending operations
in Pern consistent with its long-term objectives for the country.
39.          However, even before arrears clearance, the Bank channeled resources for a
major program of technical assistance for project preparation and implementation. The
financial resources were obtained through the Japanese Grant Facility and a grant from the
German Company for Technical Cooperation (GTZ).
40.          To evaluate the major structural reforms under the Fujimori Administration,
several missions visited Peri beginning in October 1990. The first mission prepared a report
entitled Perui: Sector Reform and Investment Review, while the second mission prepared the
report Peru: Economic Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the Foundations for
Development. Several background papers on labor, agriculture, privatization, social security,
social sectors, and macroeconomic issues were also written during that period in preparation
for the SAL.
Program Description and Objectives
41.          Long-Term Objectives. The long-term objectives of the Bank's strategy in
Peru are to help the Peruvian governments lay the foundations for growth, improve the
efficiency of resource allocation, and improve the situation of the poor.
42.          A most important element to foster growth is to promote investment by
expanding the stock of capital, thereby incorporating technological progress. The market
allocation of investment generates productivity gains and also improves the situation of the
poor. Appropriate means of attracting investment, besides profitable opportunities, are to
strengthen property rights, promote law and order, and establish a sound macroeconomic
policy.
43.          To improve the efficiency of resources, the Bank supports the role of market
mechanisms, in keeping with regional and worldwide trends. Consistent with this is the
gradual reduction in the direct participation of the state in productive activity and a
redefinition of the role of the state in the economy.



Annex 3                          The Struc rural A djus rmen t L oan
50
44.          In the social area, the long-term goal is to provide the means for upward social
mobility through public investment in education and health and through a competitive
environment. These means should enable the poor to respond to income-eaming
opportunities arising from structural market-oriented changes.
45.          Loan Objectives. The SAL was part of the Bank's debt workout program in
Peru, as a country with protracted arrears. As such, the immediate objectives of the loan
were to: (a) resume large scale lending operations in Peru, reversing the country's non-
accrual status; and (b) support policies to foster growth and alleviate poverty in Peru through
the liberalization and deregulation of key markets, in particular, labor, capital and
agricultural markets.
46.          Reforms in the labor market aspired to enhance labor mobility and improve the
scheme of forced-savings for retirement. Reforms in social security aimed at a better
management of the corresponding institution and a better allocation of pension savings
through an alternative private system, which would have direct impact in the development of
Peruvian capital markets. Finally, reforns in agriculture had the objective of eliminating
price distortions and legal and regulatory restrictions to credit and trade.
47.          The process of privatization was intended to reduce the direct participation of
the government in productive activities, thus improving resource allocation in the future
while providing a respite from fiscal problems in the present.
48.          Finally, the loan assisted the Government to formulate a poverty-alleviation
strategy, which outlines policies, target groups, priority programs, and the role of various
organizations involved. It also assisted in preparing profiles of priority social projects and
established the basis for imnproved food-assistance programs and a national nutrition policy.
The strategy recognizes that poverty alleviation calls for revitalization of the economy
through stabilization and liberalization, increased and more efficient social spending, and
close coordination with community representatives.
49.          Program Description. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) supported a set
of reformns in macroeconomic and fiscal policy, agriculture, and social security. In addition,
it included a social sector component and fostered the divestiture of government-owned
enterprises through a broad program of privatization.
50.          In these areas, the Governmnent agreed with the Bank on a set of 45 sectoral
conditions (Annex 2). Twenty-four of these aimed to prevent reversal of policies
implemented prior to loan presentation to the Board. The other 21 were conditions for
further reform.
51.          Macroeconomic Policy. The macroeconomic policy component stressed
market determination of prices, exchange rates, private sector wages, and interest rates. In



Annex 3                          The Structura/ Adjustment Loan
51
addition, it limited monetary base expansion to IMF targets, and restricted its growth to the
financing of the quasi-fiscal deficit and foreign exchange purchases by the Central Bank.
Also, it supported a unified floating exchange rate system and accepted the use of foreign
currencies in the local financial system. All foreign exchange surrender requirements were
explicitly prohibited.
52.          Finally, there were quantitative "performance indicators" related to tax
revenues, and government deficit and financing: tax revenues were to reach about 9 per cent
of GDP, the primary deficit of the non-financial public sector would not be larger than 0.6
percent of GDP, and the consolidated public sector balance would not be financed
domestically.
53.          Fiscal Policy. The fiscal policy component stressed the need to reduce tax
evasion to improve tax collection, strengthening the tax administration authority, SUNAT.
The conditions envisaged the installation of new computerized information systems, as well
as the selection of new personnel at a national level. SUNAT also committed itself to
expand from 1,200 to 2,500 the list of large taxpayers monitored.
54.          The Government agreed to introduce changes in the tax code to allow for
greater efficiency in the tracking of infringements. Finally, in order to simplify the tax
structure, the Government pledged to assess the phasing out of taxes on exports, bank
current-account debits, and interest paid.
55.          Labor. The changes in labor legislation supported by the SAL took place
prior to loan design. The conditionality was intended to prevent policy reversals in this area.
In particular, the longer probationary period, the extended fixed-term contracts, and the
authorization for temporary employment to accommodate work load increases, changes in
market needs, or retraining of employees were to be maintained. Moreover, the reform of
CTS from an unfunded provision for severance payment to a fully-funded one was to be
preserved. Every semester, the company was to deposit in a worker's bank account the
equivalent of a yearly wage.
56.          Social Security. In the area of social security, the Government adopted the
decision to establish the legal framework for the partial or complete privatization of the
pension system. The SAL conditionality required improved management of the national
social security institution, IPSS. This entity agreed to an action plan to significantly reduce
personnel, improve its accounting system, separate health and pension fund accounts, and
present an independent audit of its financial statements by the end of 1992. Furthermore, the
plan envisaged the streamlining of the collection system, aimed at increasing revenues for the
institution without resorting to raising the social security contribution rate. Finally, IPSS
committed to deposit its reserves (funds) in public and private banks, and to issue new rental
contracts or sell its real estate investment.



Annex 3                         The Structural Adjustment Loan
52
57.          Agriculture. The SAL conditions for agriculture were intended to preserve
the changes introduced in the legal, regulatory and judicial framework that governs the
sector. In particular, policies related to the use of land as collateral, the liberalization of
trade, the elimination of price controls, the abolition of interest rate subsidies, and the
reforms in land tenure strengthening property rights were to be maintained.
58.          Further, state marketing monopolies were to be dismantled. ECASA, the state
rice marketing entity, was to be totally liquidated and, ENCI, formerly the state foodstuffs
and fertilizer import monopoly, was to be downsized, reorganized and lose its market
monopoly.
59.          Privatization. The Government promised to launch the privatization process
following the regulatory framework defined prior to loan presentation. The conditionality
was expressed in terms of action plans, implementation schedules, policy frameworks and
divestiture strategies. This component required a Government commitment to undertake
complete divestiture in the banking, fishery, and mining sectors. Furthermore, it required
private participation in public utilities (power generation, water supply and sewerage), public
services (transportation), and even in politically sensitive activities (oil exploration, refining
and distribution; and telecommunications).
60.          Social Sector. In the social sector, the Government was to delineate a poverty
alleviation strategy, a national nutrition policy, and profiles for priority projects in primary
health and nutrition, and pre-primary and primary education. The poverty alleviation
strategy, with its corresponding implementation schedule, was to outline policies and identify
priority programs and target groups. The Government was to adopt the strategy by the end
of the performance period. The national nutrition policy was to improve existing food
assistance programs, enhancing cost effectiveness. The Government was to implement this
policy during the performance period.
61.          Role of the Bank and IMF. The Bank's new approach to support debt
workout programs in countries with protracted arrears required, among other things, the
adoption of an IMF stabilization program and a Bank-supported adjustment program.
62.          The IMF recognized the efforts of Peruvian authorities and agreed with the
Government of Peru on a Rights Accumulation Program (RAP) which prescribed fiscal and
monetary discipline during the performance period (January-December 1992). Furthermore,
the macroeconomic component of the SAL reinforced the goals set in the IMF RAP, and
supported additional policy decisions.



Annex 3                          The Srructural Adjustment Loan
53
Program Results
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Policv
63.          All the goals set in the SAL were achieved. In macroeconomic policy, the
Government maintained its commitment to strict fiscal discipline and to the market
determination of key prices, including wages, as well as the exchange and interest rates.
With no foreign exchange surrender requirements, all external transactions were convertible
to a single exchange rate.
64.          Monetary growth was limited to financing the quasi-fiscal deficit and
increasing foreign reserves of Central Bank, at rates consistent with IMF targets. The net
international reserves of the entire financial system increased US$500 million from US$2,425
million by the end of December 1992 to US$2,925 million by the end of 1993.
65.          Drastic changes in tax legislation reduced to five the number of taxes collected
by the central government, allowed for inflation adjustments to account for collection lags,
and eliminated many exemptions and loopholes. Moreover, the Government introduced a
new tax code allowing more efficiency in tracking infringements, and stricter penalties (inclu-
ding prison terms) for certain infractions. The modification of statutory rates increased the
share of the value added tax in total collections, reducing the level of more distorting taxes
(the levies on exports). Bank current account debits (turnover of bank deposits) and interests
on loans were eliminated.
66.          Moreover, the institutional framework for the implementation of the law was
improved, providing the basis for better tax enforcement. The tax administration institution,
SUNAT, reorganized its personnel and modernized its monitoring tools in order to improve
its quality and effectiveness. SUNAT completed a process of personnel selection and
evaluation at the national level to attract capable professionals and reduce redundant
positions. Moreover, the institution had installed a new computer information system, which
allowed it to expand from 1,200 to 2,500 the number of large taxpayers monitored.
67.          In 1992, the central govermnent's tax revenue reached a level of about 9
percent of GDP, up five percentage points since the new Administration took office.
However, the level of tax collection is still low, both relative to a sample of 15 countries in
Latin America with analogous levels of per capita income (14.8 percent), and to historical
experience.
68.          The level of government expenditures was in line with tax collection revenues.
In 1992, the deficit of the consolidated non-financial public sector (NFPS) was negligible.
This was the result both of deliberate policy and lack of access to credit from the Central
Bank, the domestic financial sector, or international markets. Shortage of funds, given the
relatively low level of government revenues, forced the Administration to postpone public



Annex 3                          The Structural Adjustment Loan
54
sector investment. Over the period, the Government observed tight discipline on public
sector wages and accomplished a reduction in the number of employees through voluntary
retirement. However, the Government managed to resume debt servicing to all international
financial institutions and began negotiations with its Paris Club creditors aimed at the full
restoration of service.
69.          Consistent with this persistently lower level of government deficit, the
performance of the main macroeconomic variables has improved. In particular, inflation
has abated from its hyperinflationary levels, domestic real interest rates both in nuevo sol-
and-dollar denominated operations have dwindled from their elevated post-stabilization levels,
and the real exchange rate depreciated somewhat during 1993, enhancing the competitiveness
of exports. However, macroeconomic stability is still fragile, and inflation and real interest
rates are very high relative to international standards.
70.          Inflation at the end of the "performance period" was at an annual rate of about
60 percent, and continues to decline. It does not appear to have reached a floor. In April
1994, inflation was at about 1.5 percent. The real exchange rate, as measured by the ratio
of an external price index (adjusted for devaluation) and the domestic consumer price index,
was about 40 percent of the level prevailing on average in 1985, even after depreciating
about 10 percent in 1992. On the other hand, despite the high level of capital mobility, real
interest rates were higher in Peru than abroad, both on dollar-denominated and on nuevo sol-
denominated accounts. Furthermore, the spread between interest rates on loans and interest
rates on deposits was high, even after accounting for inflation, reserve requirements and
other taxation. It should be pointed out, however, that real interest rates and spreads were
consistently higher for domestic currency-denominated loans than for dollar- denominated
ones.
71.          In the financial system, the amount of demand deposits grew, but at a very
slow pace. A bank run on deposits in the months of April and May of 1992, after the
closing of Congress, was reversed in the following months. The market has continued to
prefer dollar deposits, albeit at a decreasing rate. The participation of dollar denominated
accounts in total
deposits increased from about 60 percent at end-1990 to almost 80 percent at end-1992. As a
result, loans granted were also increasingly denominated in dollars.
72.          During 1992 and subsequently, the quality of the portfolio of the banking
system, measured as a percentage of non-performing loans, deteriorated significantly. In
some financial institutions, the level of insolvency reached such a degree that the Superinten-
dency of Banks had to order their liquidation. The grade of uncertainty in the stability of the
banking system redirected deposits to the most solvent institutions, increasing the degree of
concentration in the industry. As of the end of 1992, four institutions received more than 70
percent of all the deposits in the banking system.



Annex 3                        The Structural Adjustment Loan
55
Labor Markets
73.          Given the magnitude and scope of the structural change, the Peruvian economy
needed a more flexible labor market to permit a more efficient reallocation of labor. Among
the reforms supported by the SAL, the labor stability law was relaxed, expanding conditions
for layoffs and increasing the probationary period in specific cases. In addition, new labor
contracts were allowed on a fixed-term basis (up to three years), allowing for fluctuations in
temporary employment to adjust for new market conditions. Finally, the Compensation for
Time and Services Rendered (CTS) became a fully-funded severance-cum-retirement
mandatory savings, managed by financial institutions. This change has improved labor
mobility, because it provided workers with guaranteed savings available in case of severance
while they search for a new job.
74.          The Government also redefined the framework for collective negotiations and
the rules that govern a strike. Previously, most collective labor negotiations were agreed by
industrial sector, instead of company by company. Given the hyperinflationary scenario,
labor agreements usually included indexation clauses. Strikes were decided in assemblies
without a quorum, and there were no periodic votes to decide on the continuation of the
strike. With the changes, workers are free to organize in unions, but the law requires a
minimum number of 20 members per company. Moreover, collective labor negotiations can
now be agreed on a company by company basis. However, if firms and workers assent, the
scope could be broadened to an industry basis. Even though inflation remains high, periodic
indexation has been ruled out in most collective agreements, allowing fluctuation in real
wages to reflect market conditions. On the other hand, strikes now require a quorum: more
than half of the workers have to decide in an assembly, in a direct, secret, individual and
universal vote, to start a strike in order for it to be valid, and this has to be certified by a
notary public.
75.          Even though minimum wages were required by the old Constitution, the Go-
vernment has set them at non-binding levels. In addition, new legislation now requires a
board of employers, employees and government representatives to set the different minimum
wages, taking into consideration the sector, cost of living, and type of occupation.
76.          Finally, a significant gap still exists between the cost of labor for firms and
take-home wages for workers, the difference being compensation for time of service, social
security contributions, and a tax to the National Housing Fund. The first of these is not a
tax, but a forced savings scheme. The second is a mandatory health and old-age insurance
scheme which has been significantly improved (see below). The last used to be a housing
lottery, but is currently an earmarked tax used for the construction of basic infrastructure in
low-income urban areas.



Annex 3                        The Structural Adjustmenr Loan
56
Social Security
77.         In the area of social security, the Government redefined the nature of the
mandatory saving for retirement. The National Pension System (SNP), currently managed
by the Peruvian Social Security Institution (IPSS), has been revised, and new financial
intermediaries will be allowed to compete for the administration of the mandatory pension
levy. Furthennore, a new law expanding private sector participation in the administration of
mandatory health insurance has been passed, but has not been implemented yet.
78.          The National Pension System was legally defined in 1973 as a benefit pension
scheme, where the initial retirement income was estimated on the bases of a formula which
took into consideration years of contribution, number of family members, and average wage
in the prior 12 months. Later, the legal framework required the pension, thus defined, to be
indexed to inflation every three months to maintain its purchasing power.
79.          This system assumed the obligations from prior mandatory pension programs.
However, the number of workers close to retirement age who had contributed to the system
was small relative to the number of workers being levied. Thus, the system generated, up to
1988, significant cash surpluses and could comply with the benefit formula mandated in the
law. This formula was extremely generous relative to other legislations in the world.
80.          Given the important cash surpluses, and the nature of the pension scheme, the
administration of the program should have built significant reserves from the amount levied
on workers and firms. However, this was not possible, basically because the government
took those funds in exchange for bonds yielding negative interest rates.
81.          Having virtually no reserves, the system collapsed to a pay-as-you go plan,
where benefits were, defacto, estimated on the basis of the available resources. Moreover,
the transition to an effective pay-as-you-go system was accelerated by giving access to a
partial pension with only five years of contribution. With the outbreak of hyperinflation,
indexation was abandoned, and retirement income dropped significantly in real terms.
82.          The prospects for the system were bleak, with projected reductions in the
ratios of contributors to beneficiaries to account both for the natural maturity of the system
(tending toward the age structure in Peru) and the observed long-term trend in the aging of
the population. This raised questions about its financial feasibility at the given contribution
rate and level of evasion. In addition, a deficient administration of the pension plan was
characterized by redundant personnel, an inefficient collection system, and financial
mismanagement that was concealed by an obscure, unauditable accounting system.
83.         The Government decided to reform the nature of the pension system in Peru.
The new legal framework will allow workers to choose between joining a pension system
managed by the State and one handled privately. A massive transfer of workers to the new



Annex 3                        The Structural Adjusrment Loan
57
system is expected, since the benefits of the former have been reduced significantly and are
decided arbitrarily. The pension provided by the private system will depend on the amount
of contributions of the individual during his working life, and the evolution of the real
interest rate over the period; thus it is a fully-funded scheme instead of pay-as-you-go. This
system promotes competition because the worker can choose the intermediating institution to
manage its funds, whereas the other scheme acted on a monopoly basis. Finally, financial
institutions in charge of managing the funds are private instead of State-owned institutions.
84.         In summary, the modification may significantly increase the saving rate and
improve income distribution. It also eliminated all favorable discriminatory treatment for
some pressure groups and changed the legal requirement for pension indexation to periodic
rises to account for inflation depending on the financial resource available to the managing
institution.
85.          The National Pension system has been operating on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Consequently, a massive transfer of contributors to the alternative system will significantly
affect the system's finances. Because of this, the Government has offered to guarantee, over
the transition period, the pensions of retired workers. In the meantime, the Government
inproved the administration, accounting and financial management of the social security
institution (IPSS).
86.          The reforms imply a partial privatization of the administration of the social
security institution, as many of its former duties have been delegated to the private sector.
Consistent with this reduced scope of work, the Government has trimmed redundant
personnel from a level of 45,000 to 22,000 across the nation.
Agriculture
87.          This sector is one of the most important sources of employment in the country.
Agricultural and livestock activities absorb 35 percent of the economically active population,
but contribute only about 12 percent of GDP and 8 percent of exports. Nevertheless, the
level of production is enough to provide a significant amount of the food consumed by
Peruvians. The balance is provided by imports. Imports are especially important when the
economy suffers from adverse supply shocks, such as the El Nifio current phenomenon which
repeats itself about every 10 years.
88.          Agricultural production is widely diversified. The most important staples in
volume, are rice, maize, potatoes, coffee, cotton and sugar. The latter three have
traditionally provided most of the foreign revenue generated by agriculture. The abrupt
topography and difficult geography of the country mean that croplands are broadly scattered
and segmented. This inhibits large-scale operations and increases transportation costs. In
addition, farmers have to face the problem of cultivating land in sloped areas, for which they



Annex 3                           The Structura/ Adjustment Loan
58
have developed their own technology. Pasture area is relatively small, restricting large-scale
animal raising activities in the country.
89.           Despite Peru's sizable territory, agricultural land is relatively scarce. Only
2.9 percent of the land mass of the country can be used for agriculture, most of it to be
found in the highlands. However, this resource has not been appropriately managed through
time, and much of it has been severely damaged or completely wasted for agricultural
purposes. Salinization is a prevalent problem in the coastal region, while soil erosion is a
major issue in the highlands. Deforestation and overgrazing affect large agricultural and
animal raising areas through the country. Furthermore, lack of official concern for the
environment has contributed to land degradation and ecological disruption.
90.           Land is subject to a high degree of climatic uncertainty, exhibiting a high
variance of temperature and availability of water and energy. This environmental factor
increases the risks associated with the activity in the country. A large number of rural
farmers, who are close to a subsistence level, take this as given and adjust their behavior by
following risk-averse practices and diversifying their production, even though on a small
scale. Over the years, farmers have arranged risk-pooling agreements to reduce their
individual exposure.
91.           Water availability depends on the precipitation in the mountains, either directly
or indirectly. Most of the agriculture in the coast takes place in the scattered river valleys
located along the large desert strip. In this region, farmers depend on irrigation systems
which gather the seasonal rise in the level of the rivers during the rainfall period, while
agriculture in the highlands depends directly on the amount of rainfall. In the 1970s, the
Governrnent developed very important irrigation projects which have proved to be badly
designed and managed. Despite the high cost of these projects, which aimed at providing
water supply for agriculture, successive governments set water charges at levels so low that
they were not worth collecting. Cheap water tariffs promoted the overuse and waste of
water.
92.           Urban centers are the natural markets for agriculture. However, local peasants
face competition from imports. Protection is now limited to tariff barriers and, for some
staples, a temporary surcharge scheme. Nevertheless, these may not compensate the higher
road transportation costs that domestic production has to bear to reach the market. This
reflects many factors, among them a government budget that depends on fuel taxes, the
deterioration of the road network and infrastructure in general, and the environment of
political violence that has prevailed in the country. Rural insecurity caused by terrorism and
drug trafficking activities have increased both the costs of production and distribution.
93.           Finally, the amount of investment in agriculture is extremely low. The level
of under-capitalization can be explained, in part, by the mistakes contained in the Agrarian



Annex 3                          The Structural Adiustment Loan
59
Reform Law passed in 1969. This law denied full property rights to the beneficiaries of the
reform and threatened them permanently with expropriation.
94.          In August 1991, the Government instituted a new Agricultural Investment
Promotion Law which abolished most of the negative aspec.s of the earlier Agrarian Reform
Law. The new policy framework is based on strengthened property rights and lower tariffs
for agriculture inputs. The basis of agricultural progress is to be well-defined property rights
for land and water usage, under which land may be owned, leased, mortgaged (if in excess
of five hectares), and traded without restriction by or to any individual or legal entity,
whether Peruvian or foreign.
95.          Nevertheless, a vast array of farmners, are not yet covered by the law, and thus
lack a proof of their property rights. Urgent reorganization of the rural registration system
needs to be achieved since most of the land has not yet been registered. Once titling and
registration of rural properties is undertaken peasants will be able to use their land as
collateral for credit. (Peasant communities -- "comunidades campesinas" -- do not have this
freedom, though their freedom to dispose of their land has increased under the new 1993
Constitution.)
96.          State participation in agriculture is being cut drastically. The State has
refrained from setting price controls, providing inflationary credit subsidies, or supporting
privileged access to collateral. In foodstuff trading the role of the State has been
substantially reduced. ECASA, the national rice-marketing monopoly, has already ceased
operations and is completing the process of liquidation. The monopoly on imported grains
and fertilizers that ENCI formerly had was removed, and the company has begun a process
of reorganization.
97.          To temporarily provide funds for agriculture, the central government budget
has allocated limited amounts for credit since Banco Agrario is no longer a source of credit
and commercial credit to agriculture has remained low. Unfortunately, the improved
economic framework for agriculture has not been reflected in greater production, because of
bad climatic conditions. In this scenario, banks, which face a difficult financial situation,
have not been willing to increase their risk by lending to clients that are unknown to them.
Faster procedures to call on guarantees and swifter solutions for legal disputes must be
implemented if banks are to increase their stake in agriculture.
Privatization
98.          The bold privatization program of the Fujimori Administration aims at
divestiture of about 224 companies. The State will concentrate on providing basic
infrastructure, health, education, justice, and public goods.



Annex 3                       The Structrural Adjustment Loan
60
99.         The legal and institutional framework for privatization was defined in
Legislative Decree 674 of September 1991, as amended in December 1992. This decree
created an executive agency in charge of the privatization program, the Commission for the
Promotion of Private Investment (COPRI). This inter-ministerial commission is directly
supervised by the President. For the privatization of each public company, COPRI
nominates a Special Committee (CEPRI) which draws up the plan and conditions of sale on a
case by case basis. Each CEPRI monitors the privatization by overseeing consultants
contracted under competitive bidding to carry out the technical and financial studies.
100.        As part of the effort to promote investment, the Government has transformed
foreign investment legislation into one of the most liberal in the world. Foreign investors
now have the same rights and obligations as Peruvians. Foreign investors may organize
themselves into any corporate form provided for in corporate law, including joint ventures
with domestic investors. There are no restriction on any form of capita] remittance, whether
dividend, interest, or royalty payments. For the transfers, investors need only channel the
resources through the banking system without needing any type of approval from the
government. Finally, Peru acceded to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement
(MIGA) in December 1991. In addition, the country has become a member of the Internatio-
nal Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and has signed bilateral
agreements to protect investments with Switzerland, Thailand, and recently with the United
States (through the Overseas Private Investment Corporation).
101.        From May 1992 to April 1994, 33 companies have been privatized. This
process has accrued US$ 2.07 billion in revenues and has helped the Government balance its
budget. Of particular note was the privatization of Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
- Entel/Companiia Peruana de Telefonos - CPT - Telecommunications. On February 28,
1994, a control package of 35% of Entel and CPT--including a capital increase in CPT--,
was auctioned to a consortium led by Telefonica Internacional (Spain), for a total of US$2
billion. Out of this amount, the State will receive US$1.39 billion, while US$0.61 billion
will be the additional capital in CPT. Up to 10% of Entel's shares will be offered to Entel's
workers and the remaining shares will eventually be offered in the market. All the
remaining mayor companies will be privatized by early 1995. These include the two mayor
electricity companies (ELECTROLIMA and ELECTROPERU), the national oil company
(PETROPERU), the water and sewerage company (SEDAPAL) and the remaining mining
companies (CENTROMIN and MINEROPERU).
Social Sector Issues
102.        A large segment of the Peruvian population suffers from chronic poverty,
defined as a level of consumption below that represented by a basic food basket. There are
serious problems in health, nutrition, sanitation, and education. Under the new economic
policy, the government will promote wealth-generating activities rather than redistribution of
income. The new economic strategy is intended to improve real wages. Crucial in this



Annex 3                          The Structural Adjustmenr Loan
61
effort is the process of labor market deregulation and the elimination of the regressive
inflation tax.
103.         In addition, the Government will concentrate on the provision, rehabilitation,
and expansion of basic social infrastructure and essential public services: health, water and
sanitation and education services. In order to do so, the Government will have to improve
its administrative capacity and reform key institutions, as duplication of functions remains in
key areas like health provision.
104.         However, as a short-term response to critical poverty, the Government has
designed a poverty alleviation strategy establishing a minimum safety net for the most
vulnerable groups in society. It began with outlining policies in health, nutrition, education,
and employment, identifying vulnerable sectors, priority programs, and the institutional
framework for the implementation of social programs. Identification of target groups implies
a significant change in policy relative to the prevalent generalized food subsidies of the past.
105.         One of the principal safety-net schemes in the program is FONCODES, the
National Fund for Social Compensation and Development, created in August 1991. It
finances small labor-intensive projects for the rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure and for the provision of basic social services, identified by the poorer local
communities. After its formative period during 1992, there have been notable improvements
in its efficiency and management. To fund the program it relies on both internal and
external resources.
Health
106.         The most common health problems in Peru, and among the main known
causes of mortality, are pollution-related respiratory illnesses and water-borne diseases such
as diarrhea. Diarrheal diseases arise from the use of contaminated water and lack of access
to a public sewerage service. The precariousness of the sanitary conditions of the country
explains the degree of prevalence of water-borne diseases and the speed with which the
cholera epidemic spread in the country in 1991.
107.         Infant mortality is very high, especially in the rural areas, where it is double
the rate of urban areas. Correspondingly, the number of children per mother in rural areas
is twice that of mothers in urban areas. Average life expectancy is about 64 years, but after
surviving the first two years of life, life expectancy increases to above 70 years old. The
most dramatic fact, however, is that more than 80 percent of the infant deaths could be easily
avoided with proper care. Moreover, it is estimated that around 40 percent of children under
six suffer some sort of nutritional deficiency.
108.         There are in Peri almost the same number of public and private hospitals.
However, private hospitals have a much lower number of beds per institution. The Ministry



Annex 3                          The Structural Adjustment Loan
62
of Health is the main provider of hospital infrastructure in the public sector, followed by thc
Social Security Institution, which provides health care to its contributors and their families.
Unfortunately, because of lack of funds and mismanagement, public hospitals are
significantly limited in their ability to provide health services to the population. There are
about than 27,000 physicians, about one for every 3,000 people. The ratio is much lower in
Lima: about one for every 436. In general, health care is much better in urban than in rural
areas.
109.         The Ministry of Health intends to reduce infant mortality, expand health
coverage in poor areas, rehabilitate social infrastructure, and upgrade the capacity of
professional staff. Concurrently, the Ministry of Education initiated an emergency program
to feed schoolchildren one meal a day and use the school as a locus to introduce tuberculosis
detection and improved health practices.
110.         With UNICEF assistance, a Plan of Action for Child Welfare was prepared by
the Government. It sets goals in the area of health, water and sanitation, nutrition,
employment, and the problems of children in difficult circumstances. Moreover, the
Government prepared a national nutrition policy based on a review of existing food assistance
programs, which were reformed to improve cost effectiveness and nutritional impact. In
addition, the Government prepared a list of priority projects and project profiles in primary
health and nutrition.
Education
11.          The illiteracy rate is 11 percent, although the underlying distribution exhibits
high variance associated with geographical area and sex. For men, the average rate is only 5
percent, while for women it is 18 percent. The illiteracy rate is 5 percent for urban areas
and 30 percent for rural areas. In the Andean valleys, a significant portion of the population
barely speaks Spanish, Quechua being the main language. Finally, the rate of illiteracy is
much lower for younger than older people, reflecting the effort at universal education
undertaken by the State in the last decades.
112.         About 70 percent of children receive school education, 90 percent of them in
public schools. Of the 47,000 schools in the country, about 41,000 are public. The
presence of the State at the university level is lower. It manages 33 of the 56 universities in
the country. However, public schools perform very poorly. The degree of educational
attainment, although improving, remains very low. Repetition rates are about 10.2 percent
in primary school and 8.5 percent in secondary school. The attrition rate is currently about
6.2 percent, being somewhat higher in secondary schools.
113.         The Government developed a list of priority projects and implementation
schedules with the objective to increase internal efficiency of education. The Ministry of
Education aims at expanding the coverage and quality of primary education and linking



Annex 3                        The Srruc tural A djus tmen t L oan
63
technical training to the job market. Over the medium-term, the objectives are to improve
the qualitv of education, universalize education for 6-14 year old children, and upgrade the
quality of teachers in the public system. Over time, the investments in human capital
achieved through education will be the most valuable tool to emerge from poverty.
Overall Evaluation
114.        Reforms introduced by the Fujimori Administration in Peru have proven to be
the most important changes in the country's economic framework since 1968. The revolution
in the structure of the economy encompasses a change in development strategy from an
inward-oriented import-substitution system to a market-oriented open economy. The long-
run role of the government has been limited to those activities in which it will be most
efficient. In particular, the State is abandoning its generalized intervention as producer and
planner, and concentrating on providing a stable legal framework for property rights and
services for health, education, security and basic infrastructure.
115.        The achievements are encouraging. As described in the prior sections, the
structural adjustment has pervaded most activities in Peru. In particular, the Government
liberalized economic activity throughout the country. It has lifted barriers to trade
domestically and abroad, opened activities to the private sector that were once reserved to the
state, and, in general, fostered an environment of competition designed to promote a more
efficient allocation of resources. In general, the scope of the structural changes in Peru is
one of the boldest and most far reaching ever seen in Latin America.
The Stabilization Program
116.         The stabilization program implemented by the Fujimori Administration can be
characterized as orthodox and monetary-based, since it has stopped domestic financing of the
fiscal deficit and imposed targets on money base expansions. Liberalization programs have
complemented this effort, laying the foundations for growth and increasing confidence in the
sustainability of the stabilization.
117.         The program was successful in curtailing hyperinflation, but it has not yet
abated high inflation. The monthly rate declined from an average of 40 percent per month
through mid 1990 to a figure around two percent per month by the enid of 1993.
Notwithstanding the large improvement, Peru is still among the high inflation countries.
118.         The observed increase in the consumer price index over the period was
consistent with the growth of the monetary base, despite the fact that the Central Bank did
not finance any budget deficit. This shows that equilibrium in the fiscal accounts is a
necessary, but not a sufficient condition to maintain price stability. Inflation is a monetary
phenomenon, and there are many reasons why the Central Bank might increase the quantity
of money, besides funding the government. For instance, expansion in the money supply



Annex 3                           The Structura/ Adjustment Loan
64
may arise from purchases of foreign reserves. direct credit policy, or open market operations
of the monetary authority.
119.          The expansion of high-powered monev can be explained mainly by Central
Bank purchases of foreign exchange with the double objective of increasing international
reserves and trving to depreciate the real exchange rate. Some additional intervention of the
Central Bank in the exchange rate market was on behalf of the government, acting as an
intermediary in acquiring foreign exchange to service debt. The behavior of the Central
Bank was consistent with the yearly monetary expansion targets and credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF under the Rights Accumulation Program. The Govemrnent and the IMF
agreed on a gradualistic attack on inflation.
120.          Although not to the standards of developed countries, inflation has been
reduced drastically, thus curtailing the depreciation rate of real money balances. This effect
should have boosted, cetenis paribus, the demand for domestic currency. On the other hand,
the opportunity cost increased with the elimination of repression in the financial system.
Market determined interest rates reached levels previously unknown to the country, and
dollar deposits in the financial system provided a low risk financial asset that enhanced the
possibilities of inter-temporal substitution which for a large majority of the population was
previously restricted to the dollar bill.2
121.          Since the Fujimori Administration took office, domestic real interest rates have
been above both international and historical levels. At the beginning of the stabilization,
interest rates in soles and dollars skyrocketed, due to a liquidity effect increasing demand for
credit and higher expected growth.
122.          High risk also explains the higher real interest rates observed in the economy.
Depending on the denomination of the type of asset, deposits reflected: the lack of
confidence in the financial system (the risk of expropriation and bankruptcy); the devaluation
and inflation tax premium; and the country risk. The latter arises from the frequent
historical changes in economic policy and in the legal and regulatory framework that have
affected the business environment.
123.          The economy suffered a contraction in GDP as a result of the adjustment
process to the new set of market prices and external competition. In addition, other supply
shocks were also present, such as bad weather and the presence of the El Nino current that
affected agriculture and fishing. This also caused a drought in the Andes that reduced
production through a lack of electricity.
2 Domestic nominal interest rates in Peru's financial system prior to 1990, did not reflect the cost of holding
currency. Because of financial repression, deposits at the financial system were not the best alternative (and
therefore the opportunity cost) of holding purchasing power. Hence, people resorted to dollar bills as store of value.



Annex 3                          The S truc tura/ A dus trmen r L oan
65
124.         Inflation would have been lower if money demand had responded to lower
inflation. One of the possible explanations of the sluggish increase in real domestic money
balances is that the reduction in monetary growth rate was not perceived to be permanent.
Under this hypothesis, the fact that the current inflation rate was lower did not necessarily
mean that people expected it remain that way in the future. Drastic policy changes have
been common in the country and Peri has had a long experience with surprise unsuccessful
stabilization programs. Those came together with periodic drastic once and for all increases
that dramatically shrank the real money balances of those who maintained them.
125.         Lack of confidence in the government's ability to lower inflation may be
explained with the observation that the inflation forecasts published by the government
consistently underestimated actual results. Moreover, the implicit expected devaluation rate
observed from interest rate differentials suggests that those forecasts were never believed.
Currency Substitution
126.         Domestic currency has to compete with foreign exchange to provide monetary
services to the Peruvians. The economy uses the US dollar a as means of payment for large
domestic transactions, a store of value and a unit of account. Petty exchanges are mostly
carried out in local currency. Thus, the dollar coexists with the domestic currency, which
lost its monopoly as the domestic means of payment with the outbreak of uncontrolled
inflation.
127.         The explanation of this substitution is that the foreign currency is cheaper and
more reliable than the domestic currency. The user cost of domestic currency is still
significantly higher than the user cost of dollars, and transaction costs of exchange are very
low. The existence of dollarization in the economy may improve net welfare since it
increases the number of options available to consumers.
128.         Dollarization of transaction services is still the most efficient way that society
has to keep its payment system going, in a scenario of still high inflation rates. If
dollarization could be prohibited, economic agents would have to resort to another less
efficient means, and probably some mutually beneficial exchanges would not take place.
129.         The allowance of dollar deposits has reduced significantly the seignorage paid
by the Peruvian Economy as a whole. Before dollar deposits were permitted, seignorage was
being paid on dollar bills kept for both uses: transaction and store of value purposes. With
the introduction of dollar deposits, the dollar "base" has declined accordingly. Indeed, even
though banks must hold reserves at the Central Bank, this institution may deposit those
resources abroad and earn interest. Thus, the cost of holding dollar deposits to the society
for store of value purposes--the loss of seignorage--is about equal only to the bills in
circulation.



Annex 3                          The Structural Adjustmenr Loan
66
Real Exchange Rate
130.         The real exchange rate has been appreciating since 1988, but has appreciated
at a much lower rate since the beginning of the stabilization. Nonetheless, there is a strong
perception of real exchange rate appreciation, especially when the ratio is compared to prior
historic levels. Moreover, there is a prevalent expectation that the real exchange rate will
continue to appreciate. This expectation is consistent with domestic real interest rates of
dollar denominated deposits being higher than real interest rates abroad.
131.         The Central Bank tried to depreciate the exchange rate to promote export-led
growth in the country. It seems that it made a small dent in this rate, but at the cost of a
sizable inflation tax.
132.         With the liberalization of capital markets came an increase in the supply of
dollars in the economy. Capital inflows were attracted to the country by the high interest
rates, either to earn a high yield or to avoid paying one. In addition, capital inflows
financed the remonetization of the economy, which took place to a significant degree in
dollar-denominated liquidity.
133.         Many factors have affected the real exchange rate since the launching of the
stabilization plan. The reduction in tariffs decreased the price of tradable goods, the
elimination of subsidies boosted the price of non-tradable goods and, finally, the increase in
the price of energy and public services may have affected the price of non-tradable goods
more than that of non-tradable goods. It is difficult to assess the final net result of these
opposing effects.
Sustainability
134.         The current Administration remains committed to the structural reforms and
current economic policy, and is expected to maintain that position until the end of its term.
Furthermore, the Administration signed a three-year Extended Fund Facility Program with
the IMF in March 1993 that has defined an economic program for the period, setting targets
consistent with greater macroeconomic stability.
135.         However, there are some concerns about the sustainability of the economic
program beyond this Administration. On the macroeconomic side, the fears are based on the
fragile fiscal situation over the medium term unless there is a significant increase in the level
of tax revenues. In particular, two factors could affect the current equilibrium. The first is
the level of external debt, the servicing of which would be unsustainable at current tax
collection rates. Conservative projections forecast that medium- and long-term public debt
could reach a level in excess of total exports in 1996. Peru would have to negotiate a
reduction in its debt with its creditors, because even if revenues increase enough to cover



Annex 3                          The StructuralAdjustment Loan
57
debt service, the opportunity cost is very high since the State needs financial resources to
provide for social spending and basic infrastructure.
136.         The second factor is related to the redefinition of the social security system. If
the introduction of the new system is successful!, the government would assume a significant
internal debt on behalf of the current pensioners and contributors (in principle all workers in
the formal system) estimated at US$ 1.9 billion, assuming a discount rate of 4%. That debt
would have to be paid over the next 50 years, but could be financed over time in order to
redistribute the cost of the transition to a better pension system to the future generations who
will benefit from it.
137.         Over the shorter run, some macroeconomic progress is required to consolidate
the stabilization program. In particular, growth must be resumed and inflation reduced.
Inflation continued to fall after 1992, while a promising recovery growth began at the end of
1992. The economic situation of the banking system gives rise to concern. A banking crisis
would be a serious setback for the stabilization program.
138.         The long-term sustainability of the broad structural reforms and
macroeconomic improvement implemented by the Fujimori Administration will depend on the
political support that they will be able to retain over time. The Government has enjoyed
high approval rates, but it must secure political support from the most vulnerable groups. In
this sense, the poverty alleviation scheme implemented by the Government is of utmost
importance.
Conclusions and Lessons from the SAL
139.         The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was the second of three policy loans
within the Bank's new approach to debt workout problems with Peru, as a country with
protracted arrears. Arrears clearance reversed the country's non-accrual status, and has
allowed the Bank to restart large lending operations in Peru.
140.         The SAL was instrumental in supporting the reforms that will sustain long-
term growth. To improve allocation of resources the loan has fostered the development of
the private sector by supporting the liberalization and deregulation of key markets and
promoting the privatization of state enterprises, thus directly reducing the participation of the
government in productive activities. It has been the Government's decision, supported by the
SAL, to limit its scope to those activities in which it will be most helpful for society:
providing a more stable legal and regulatory framework, social welfare programs, and basic
infrastructure.
141.         Reforns in the labor market have enhanced labor mobility and improved the
system of forced savings for retirement. Those in social security have achieved a better
management of the corresponding institution and the introduction of a superior alternative



Annex 3                          The Structura/ Adjustment Loan
68
which will foster Peruvian capital markets. Finally, reforms in agriculture have eliminated
price distortions and broadened property rights in land, abolishing most legal and regulatory
restrictions to credit and trade.
142.         In addition to the structural reforms, the Peruvian economy has made a
fundamental change in economic policy. This includes a change in development strategy
from an inward-oriented import-substitution scheme to a market-oriented open economy.
The new Administration shifted from a multiple-exchange crawling peg to a unified floating
exchange rate system. Compulsory surrender of export receipts and all controls on current-
and capital-accounts transactions were abolished. In addition, most price controls were
eliminated, including a defacto elimination of interest rates ceilings. Monetary expansion
was limited mainly to purchases of foreign currency by the Central Bank to accumulate
foreign reserves. Central-Bank financing of the central government was explicitly prohibited,
and a cash management committee managed State finances on a cash basis only. In order to
sustain this situation, the Government undertook further fiscal reforms aimed at increasing
tax revenues and improving the management of public expenditure.
143.         However, macroeconomic stability is still fragile and there is still much to
achieve. Inflation and real interest rates are very high relative to international standards.
Finally, Peru still has a sizable labor force working in the "informal" sector.
144.         The lessons that can be drawn from the structural adjustment loan are related
to the stabilization program implemented by the Government. First, in a scenario of lack of
credibility and persistent dollarization, an increase in the demand for domestic real balances
cannot be expected despite the reduction in the inflation rate. Second, in this framework, the
efforts of the Central Bank to depreciate the real exchange rate through direct purchases of
foreign exchange will generate inflation. Third, financial intermediation in dollars may
reduce the seignorage paid by the economy. Fourth, real interest rates may be higher in the
country even though it is open to foreign capital, as a result of a combination of country risk,
expropriation risk, expectations of future real exchange depreciation, and the internal level of
taxation.



Annex 4                              The Trade Policy Reform Loan                             69
ANNEX 4
THE TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
Trade Policv Reform and the Loan
1.            In August, 1990 the newly elected Fujimori Government began a fundamental
trade reform concurrently with the introduction of a stabilization policy and the initiation of a
broad range of economic reforms. The exchange rate was immediately unified and floated,
and rationing of foreign exchange largely eliminated. Many non-tariff barriers, most import
tariff preferences, and all export subsidies were eliminated in short order. By March 1991,
virtually all remaining non-tariff barriers had been eliminated. At this time, a two-rate tariff
(15 and 25 percent) was introduced (with a few exceptions for steel products). A system of
variable tariff surcharges was introduced for a limited number of agricultural products in an
effort to provide greater price stability in the domestic market. In mid-1991 an anti-dumping
code was passed. By this time, the Government had eliminated most of the activity of the
Instituto de Comercio Exterior (ICE -- the public body that had formerly administered import
controls and export subsidies), and begun a program of reforming the customs service. In
September, the Government gave the strength of law to many of the decrees that had
achieved these policy changes.
2.             The early reforms of the new Administration were not part of any clear
blueprint for trade reform. They may have responded to informal policy advice from the
international financial institutions, but many of them were also a necessary part of the
stabilization. A Bank mission at the end of 1990 made specific proposals in the area of
foreign trade including: a rapid move to a low and uniform tariff; elimination of export
subsidies; and the creation of a safeguard mechanism to adjudicate claims of import injury
that balanced producer and consumer interests.' The mission also proposed a detailed plan
for the reform of SUNAD, the Customs Superintendency. After this, a Bank trade mission
(funded under the joint UNDP-World Bank Trade Expansion Program) arrived just after the
February 1991 appointment of a new Economy and Finance Minister. Carlos Boloiia, for
whom radical micro-economic reform, particularly in trade, was a top priority. The radical
measures the Government took from March onwards were consistent with the mission's
recommendations (though not always identical), and reflected a unanimity of views rather
than any new conviction on the Government's part.2
' Economic Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the Foundations for Development, December 8, 1990,
World Bank, mimeo.
2 The mission proposed: an immediate reduction in tariffs to leave only three rates, 15, 20, and 25 percent,
and the move to a flat 15 percent tariff within one year; an elimination of controls on second-hand imports of
capital goods and motor vehicles; the permanent elimination of the main non-tariff import barriers and further
elimination and simplification of remaining technical barriers; the extension of the temporary admission system
to cover all exports; the preparation of a plan to reform customs; the de-activation of ICE, the careful
introduction of anti-dumping legislation; and the consideration of a scheme to provide internal price stability to
selected agricultural products through a variable specific tariff. See also the subsequent report: UNDP-World
Bank Trade Expansion Program, Peru: Towards a More Open Economy, Trade Policy Division, Country



Annex 4                        The Trade Policy Reform Loan                    70
3.          The loan was prepared between June and December 1991. Preparing the
trade-policy-related part of the loan proved straightforward. No new analytical work was
carried out: even if there had been more time for this, the two missions mentioned in
paragraph 2 above had laid a solid basis, while the reform was by and large so classical and
straightforward that it did not warrant any complex data manipulation to justify or design it.
From the beginning, the Bank worked in close cooperation with the lDB, which presented its
own Trade Sector Loan to its Board on September 18, 1991. The close cooperation was
facilitated by the fact that the IDB loan was managed by a former Bank staff member who
had led the December Bank mission mentioned in paragraph 2 and had recently transferred to
the IDB. The Bank and IDB agreed on virtually identical conditionality (with the exception
that IDB handled the restructuring of two state enterprises, ENCI and ECASA, in its Trade
Sector Loan, while the Bank handled this in its SAL). IDB took the lead in designing the
project component on customs reform. (IDB also provided a $2.3 million component of a
Technical Cooperation project to fund technical assistance for the customs reform.)
4.          The Bank -- although quite pleased with the amount and quality of reform
already having taken place -- was concerned to agree on conditionality which would require
Peru to undertake to maintain all its actual reforms and carry out only a few remaining
reforms it had already announced (notably, eliminating a residual 5-percent tariff rate by
early 1993), rather than to seek new policy concessions. In this respect, the Bank sought to
defend the policy positions already established by the Government and enjoying substantial
public support against any future opposition that might arise. Bank-Government negotiations
(in December 1991) were straightforward and uneventful.
5.          The loan conditions agreed between the Bank and the Government emphasized
the maintenance of the reforms achieved between August 1990 and September 1991, rather
than new measures to be taken. Of the 22 conditions agreed (see Annex 1), 16 were to
maintain existing reforms and six to achieve further changes. The main actions under the
Loan can be summarized as follows:
(a)   the exchange regime: maintain a single freely convertible exchange rate for
all transactions;
(b)   tariffs: maintain a simplified tariff structure which had substantially reduced
the level and variance of protection; maintaining the elimination of most
special regimes allowing discriminatory preferences on the domestic market;
maintaining the agricultural surcharges scheme as it is (i.e. not expanding or
changing it), with the possibility of revising it following a study; revising the
anti-dumping code (with the help of a study of the issue);
(c)   non-tariff import barriers: maintain the elimination of formally protective
barriers, including prohibitions, minimum-local-content regulations (except on
milk), controls on most second-hand imports (notably excluding clothing), and
state agricultural import monopolies; reduce or simplify some
technical/safety/health controls on imports (with the help of a study of the issue);
Economics Department, the World Bank, October 1992.



Annex 4                             The Trade Policy Reform Loan                            71
(d)    export regime: maintain the elimination of fiscal and financiaL export
subsidies; improve schemes to allow inports to recover indirect taxes when the
fiscal situation permnitted this; maintain the reduction in non-tariff export
barriers;
(e)    trade institutions: carry out a program for customs reform.
Implementation of the Reforms
6.            The Board document Perui: Final Review of the Bank's Workout Program
(R92-226, December 10, 1992) reported that the Government had observed all measures
agreed (see Annex 1, reproduced as Annex 1 in this report, for details) and that its
commitment to an open trade regime had not wavered during the performance period.' This
is still the case. But this is not to say that the trade reform has been entirely without its ups
or downs or problems. This section reports on developments in Peruvian trade policy since
Board presentation of the Trade Policy Reform Loan (February 1992).
7.            Exchange Rate Policy. The Government has maintained a unified, freely
convertible exchange rate for all transactions, with no change in the floating-rate regime.
8.            Tariff Policy. At the last moment (while the project was actually being
negotiated, in December 1991), the Presidents of the Andean Pact (of which Peru is a
member) made a commitment, in the Acta de Barahona, to create a customs union. This had
tariff implications for Peru in conflict with the loan conditionality initially proposed by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (which represented the Government at negotiations) and
acceptable to the Bank. To solve the conflict, the Bank and the Government then agreed on
"either/or" conditions for tariff reform, depending on whether the Government opted to
maintain the tariff strategy announced in early 1991 (first a two-tier tariff, then a low single
rate) or opted to negotiate a common external tariff within the Andean Group (which was
likely to be a multi-tier tariff, with higher average rates).
9.            In the event, the Government has not agreed a common external tariff with its
Andean-Group partners. In a succession of negotiations from the end of 1991 onwards, the
Group was unable to find a unanimous position on a common external tariff, largely because
the countries were at different stages in the trade-reform process or had different ideas on the
optimum speed of trade reform. The Peruvian Government did not wish to be part of a
arrangement that would compromise its strategy of radical and rapid trade liberalization. On
August 25, 1992, the Commission of the Cartagena Agreement acceded to Peru's request to
suspend its commercial obligations until December 31 1993 and permitted Peru to seek
I The procedure in this loan, as in other Bank adjustment loans, was to require the fulfillment, without
exception in principle, of a list of conditions. Formally, this gives the Bank little flexibility, short of seeking a
Board waiver: if one condition remains unmet while 19 are met, the conditionality is deemed not having been
fulfilled, even if some of the other 19 are fulfilled beyond expectations. In this Loan, there were undoubtedly
some minor cases of backtracking, but on balance conditionality was amply fulfilled. In the Letter of
Development Policy, the Government committed itself to prepare studies in three areas (the anti-dumping code,
tariff surcharges, and nontariff barriers), to agree with the Bank on further reforms based on these studies, and
to implement them.



Annex 4                             The Trade Po/icy Reform Loan                           72
commercial agreements with its Andean-Group partners. This suspension has since been
renewed for 1994. Perul has since signed limited preferential agreements offering zero duties
on the most important items in bilateral trade with its Andean-Group partners. These
developments (and earlier official speculation that Peru might even leave the Andean Group)
now make Peruvian agreement on a common external tariff unlikely, and the Government's
tariff policy continues to be to move to a flat 15-percent tariff. This outcome bodes well for
maintaining the momentum of Peru's trade reform process.
10.           Thus the Goverrnent has kept to the conditionality on tariff structure agreed
as the alternative to the Andean Group tariff. In February 1992 the Government officially
decided that the 5-percent tariff on steel inputs, established in January 1991, had been
superseded by legislation of September 1991. From this latter date, therefore, Peru has had
only two tariff rates, 15 and 25 percent.4 In 1992 and 1993, 850 items (13 percent of all
tariff items) were removed from the 25-percent rate to the 15-percent rate.
11.           Tariff exemptions. Several measures related to tariff exemptions have been
introduced.
(a)    In March 1992, small producers were permitted to pay IGV (the value added tax)
under the simplified regime at 5 percent (normally 18 percent). The purpose of this
was not to provide a preference for existing tax-payers but to get some tax from firms
which normally evaded it.
(b)    Under the pressure of recession, the Government in 1992 introduced several schemes
that now allow many private capital-goods importers to spread their import duty
payments over 24 months, with interest payable at a local market rate for deposits.
Thus, the loan represents a subsidy to the extent of the spread between deposit and
lending rates. In the particular case of private electricity-generating machinery a
concession granted in July 1992 amounts to a 24-month interest-free loan (payable
over 18 months, with six months' grace). This measure reflected an emergency
situation resulting from a drought which reduced the public electricity supply (which
is mainly hydroelectric) by one-third after about May 1992. It is noteworthy that, for
the first time, the Government has not resorted to a full tariff exemption. There are
no domestic producers of large generators, hence the measure has no discriminatory
effect. However, these schemes allowing importers to spread out their import duty
payments involve a subsidy -- which is close to representing a tariff preference -- and
should be discontinued.
12.           Agricultural surcharges. The scheme, created in March 1991, provides for a
variable surcharge, in addition to the normal 15-percent tariff, based on the average of the
previous five years' c.i.f. import price. Much of the revenue from these tariffs provides
resources for the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government agreed not to extend the scheme
' In March 1992, a system of tariffs reclassified according to the harmonized system (NANDINA) was
introduced. As a result, 27 percent of tariff positions came to enjoy the higher rate (25 percent ad valorem),
compared to 18 percent under the previous classification. There is no evidence, however, that if these figures
were import-weighted, there would be a rise in protection.



Annex 4                          The Trade Policy Reform Loan                         73
beyond the 18 products originally specified, to apply and publish an agreed methodology for
calculating the surcharge, and to update the surcharge regularly. For two of the 18 products
(powdered milk and dehydrated milk fat), a fixed, specific surcharge was permitted.
13.          The Governrnent also agreed to undertake a study to evaluate the scheme and,
by about September 1992, to implement reforns to the scheme agreed with the Bank. The
study was completed in August 1992.5 This study found that, had the scheme been
consistently implemented as originally intended, greater price stability would have brought
welfare gains, particularly for sugar. But the frequent changes in the rules led instead to
welfare losses. Moreover, the presence of close substitutes and apparently imperfect
competition in food distribution meant that the surcharges were not translated into increased
farm-gate prices. The study recommended the direct provision of budgetary resources to
improve farmer welfare, measures to increase competition in distribution, and a flat 10-
percent ad valorem tariff surcharge. (This last recommendation presumably reflects the
belief that a technically optimal scheme -- with variable rates -- would inevitably lead to, and
be frustrated by, rent seeking.)
14.          The surcharge has proven the most contentious part of the trade reform
process. It has been potentially damaging to the overall thrust of trade reform because it
provides the thin end of the wedge for protectionist interests. The revenue from the
surcharge has also been used in part to reintroduce discretionary programs of agricultural
support. The scheme has been changed on a number of occasions: the number of items
covered has been increased and then reduced; the methodology has been changed. All this
reflected struggles among agricultural, processing, and importing interests. The current
situation is that the scheme, now covering 20 products, has been more or less brought back
to its September 1991 situation (with two of the products, maize and sorghum, now reflecting
a flat 10-percent surcharge).
15.          Given opposition within the Government (mainly from the Ministry of
Agriculture) to the flat-10-percent-tariff recommendation, and the view that evolved in the
Bank that the scheme should be changed wholesale (preferably eliminated) or not at all, the
Bank has accepted the scheme in its present form, but has undertaken to keep the matter
under review in its policy dialogue with the Government. If only because the scheme has
been so clearly revealed as a vehicle for rent-seeking and a dangerous precedent encouraging
creeping protection in other fields, it has revealed itself as thoroughly undesirable,
notwithstanding the technical merits that price stabilization schemes could theoretically have.
16.          Free-trade zones. Perui has two free-trade zones which process or re-sell
imports for the internal market. Imports from these zones into the rest of Peru pay full
taxes, except on some goods where a uniform 10 percent duty is charged. The Ministry of
Industry is promoting the introduction of twelve industrial free-trade zones, but the Ministry
of Economy and Finance is less enthusiastic about this.
5 Javier Escobal and Ariuro Brisceno, El Sisiena de Sobretasas Agricolas en el Peru: Evaluacion y
Recomendaciones, GRADE, 28 de Agosto de 1992.



Annex 4                         The Trade Policy Reform Loan                     74
17.         Non-tariff Barriers. The Government has agreed: to ban the use of
reference prices and minimum values for protective purposes; not to introduce new non-tariff
barriers beyond those existing on July 5, 1991; and to undertake a study which would lead to
the implementation, about June 1992, of regulations assuring non-discrimination in health and
sanitary regulations and technical standards.
(a)   Reference prices. Although the use of reference prices for protective purposes had
been eliminated, the customs service (SUNAD) continued until 1992 to apply
reference prices to imports of steel, Chilean wine, and automobiles. In May 1992 the
Government eliminated the use of reference prices for customs valuation, turning
instead to reliance for customs purposes on the valuation provided by pre-shipment
inspection companies (see below). Since September 1992, SUNAD has used
reference prices for imports that fall outside the pre-inspection scheme (principally
consignments of less than $2 million). Reference prices do not appear to have been
used in a protective manner (and have not, for instance, been deliberately set at
above-world prices).
(b)   Non-tariff barriers.
An August 1991 measure prohibited the import of milk inputs, in powder and
other forms, for commercial reconstitution or combining. (This measure had
been exempted from the provisions of the Bank's Loan.) This measure
replaced a de facto non-tariff barrier limiting the share of imported inputs to
30 percent of the dairy industry's inputs, a barrier enforced through a public
monopoly of such imports. (The public monopoly no longer has legal
standing, but the state enterprise, ENCI, is still the only importer.) Producers
of evaporated milk and milk producers agreed in early 1992 to a timetable for
increasing the proportion of fresh Peruvian-produced milk in evaporated milk
from 70 percent in mid-April 1992 to 100 percent from the beginning of 1994.
Since the end of 1991 cotton imports from Brazil and Colombia have been
subject to controls on health grounds: the requirement of vacuum-chamber
fumigation for such imports in their country of origin has a discriminatory
aspect. The Government has not yet been able to solve this problem.
In January 1992, a Lima court mandated the suspension of imports of plastic
products from Colombia on the grounds of dumping. However, the customs
service did not accept the court's authority in this matter and has not applied
the measure.
*     In August 1992 quarantine treatment was required for fruits and vegetables
suffering from fruit flies originating from neighboring countries. This was
also thought to have a discriminatory aspect.
(c)   Certification of agricultural imports. There have been halting moves toward the
liberalization of procedures in this area. Various ministerial-level decrees have been



Annex 4                           The Trade Policy Reform Loan                          75
issued to reduce the monopoly that the Ministry of Agriculture has enjoyed in issuing
Qualitv Certificates for agro-livestock products. The Ministrv resisted these
measures, but progress is being made in establishing agreed procedures to allow
certified private firms to issue the certificates.
(d)    Certification of pharmaceutical imports. Registering with the Registro Sanitario is
indispensable for production, import, and trade in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, and
medical goods. There has been a similar halting progress towards partial privatization
of the issue of Health and Quality Certificates to that observed in agricultural
certification. Health legislation relating to imports is now contained in one law.
18.          Bank conditionality required a study on non-tariff barriers related to health,
technical, security, and miscellaneous regulations. A study of import procedures for
agricultural goods and inputs, completed in March 1992, provides and analyzes an inventory
of these measures, and it proposes criteria and measures for non-discriminatory health
controls.6 The study criticizes the protectionism of pre-Fujimori measures, but also suggest
that health risks may be posed by the extent of liberalization associated with some of the
post-Fujimori reforms. The study was originally intended as the basis for Bank-Government
agreement on new policy measures to be takeii. However, the complexities of the public-
goods problems involved in health and safety controls suggest that thorough-going reforms
will require more study.
19.          Undoubtedly, non-tariff barriers have now been largely eliminated in Peru, and
the most important remaining task is to perfect an efficient system of health and safety
controls that addresses public health needs while minimizing the discrimination this causes
against imports. In practice the Government has been assiduous in fighting the lingering
bureaucracy of some of its ministries. Surveillance of non-tariff barriers is now the
responsibility of a new National Institute for the Maintenance of Competition and Defense of
Intellectual Property (INDECOPI). INDECOPI continues to be active in studying methods
of reducing the discriminatory impact of non-tariff barriers, and may take over accreditation
responsibilities for health and quality certification from the Ministries of Agriculture and
Health.
20.           Anti-dumping code. The Government agreed to undertake a study on further
refonn of the existing anti-dumping code to make sure that it did not give unjustified
protection to domestic producers and to enact, by around March 1992, appropriate
amendments to the code. Prior to Board presentation, expert commentary had been made on
the code, both from within the Bank and from outside.7 This commentary fulfilled the loan
requirement for a study. The Government then amended the code in March 1992. This
6 Hermogenes Pinedo R., Criterios y Normas de Impornacion: Elimninacion de Barreras No Arancelarias
al Comercio Exterior. Inventario y Criterios para Mejorar la Aplicacion de las Normas de Control Sanitario en
la Importacion de Productos e Insumos Agrarios, Lima, Marzo 1992.
7 See July 25, 1991, memorandum from Patrick Low to Geoffrey Shepherd and the memorandum of
August 28, 1991 from Horlick and Shea (representing a Washington law firm) to Mr. Johnson, IDB.



Annex 4                         The Trade Policy Reform Loan                       76
amendment follows most of the expert reconunendations, and the revisions reasonabls
address the issues of guarding against unjustified protection.
21.          INDECOPI has also assumed responsibility for administering the anti-dumping
code. The Institute has so far taken a strongly pro-free-trade line in its actions, dismissinc
most cases. Out of 24 applications for anti-dumping subsidies from 1991 to the end of 1993,
only one saw the imposition of anti-dumping duties. Even the best written anti-dumping
codes allow enough discretion to enable them to be used as surrogate instruments of
protection. While INDECOPI has so far applied the code in a manner consistent with the
Govermnent's free-trade philosophy, the Government needs to be vigilant that this will
continue.
22.          Export taxes and subsidies. The Government has agreed not to raise existing
taxes, extend them to other products, or introduce any fiscal or financial subsidies to exports.
It also promised to extend the drawback as and when the fiscal situation permits.
23.          The Government has taken various measures to reduce the burden of indirect
taxes on exporters through duty-drawback and temporary admission schemes (these are
conventionally permitted measures to equalize international competitive conditions, not export
subsidies). These measures have somewhat improved the situation, but these schemes are
still largely ineffective. It appears that the Government still hesitates for budgetary reasons
to move to a clear and transparent drawback system.
24.          Customs Reform. The Government agreed to formulate and carry out an
Action Plan to restructure the Customs Superintendency (SUNAD) and reform the legal
framework for customs. The reform plan was based on principles of: bona fide (through the
devolution of duty-assessment functions to private agents and the move to ex-post verification
on a sample basis); the reorganization of customs; and strengthening of the Customs School
and the computer system.
25.          The Government has continued to observe the agreed timetable of actions, and
the progress that SUNAD has made in changing its structure and practices is impressive.8
Customs clearance has become more efficient: bureaucracy is less and average processing
time faster (it now takes less than a day, on average, to clear customs). Meanwhile, there
has been a dramatic increase in revenue collection: from 1990 to 1992 revenues doubled
while the value of imports increased by only 40 percent (the services of pre-shipment
inspection companies are no doubt also part of the explanation -- see below). But the present
reform may not go far enough. There is, for instance, further scope for privatizing customs
clearance, leaving a streamlined SUNAD to issue rules and to supervise. The Government
has been considering further reform along these lines.
26.          Pre-shipment inspection. The Bank had no conditionality in this area.
Indeed, the President's Report was equivocal about the benefits of the scheme (para. 90). (In
general, the Bank has embraced such schemes more positively than this.) A pre-shipment
I See Cooperacion Tecnica a Superintendencia de Aduanas (SUNAD): Supervision de la Tercera Fase:
Informe de Mision, IDB, 1993.



Annex 4                          The Trade Policy Reform Loan                         77
inspection (PSI) scheme, legislated in August 1991, has been working since March 1992.
Four companies have been qualified by SUNAD. The inspection fee is 0.5 percent for
"commodities" (and not all consignments need an inspection certificate) and one percent for
other imports. Consignments of less than $2 million are not subject to PSI.
27.          The Government has explained that the PSI scheme is intended to last for no
more than one to two years, by which time customs will have a decent valuation data bank
(indeed, the main value of PSI is to assist with customs reforn). Few have been caught
cheating, but tariff revenues have risen. A Bank study has looked at the Peruvian PSI
scheme in the context of a broader research project on the costs and benefits of PSI
schemes.9 The study acknowledges the benefit of the scheme as a transitional aid to customs
reform by removing the valuation process from customs and giving the service a breathing
space to concentrate on other aspects of reform. While costs and benefits are difficult to
assess, the net benefit is likely to decrease over time as customs and trade reform reduces the
returns to misdeclarations. Thus, according to the study, SUNAD must begin to take over
progressively customs valuation responsibilities from the PSI companies.
Recent Developments in Foreign Trade
28.          There is no doubt that the trade reform measures have fundamentally changed
the trade regime that Peruvian producers face. A recent Bank report on Peru, Peru: a
Private Sector Assessment, surveyed a range of private firms in Lima to gauge the current
business climate and the changes in this since 1990. Of 14 obstacles to growth that firms
were surveyed on (pertaining to the tax regime, inflation, bureaucracy, finance, labor
regulation, and so on), import and foreign-exchange restrictions and export regulations had
been among the severest before the reformns and had become the least severe by 1990. The
report characterized the changed climate as follows (paragraph 57).
"The trade reform appears to have been one of the great successes of the reform
program. From being one of the most severe of the constraints to doing business, it
became of much lesser concern. Imports of capital goods have risen substantially
since 1990, indicating that restructuring is beginning to occur. Furthermore there is
an indication that many firms that were hitherto producing goods in the previously
heavily protected environment have stopped manufacturing and have started importing
and distributing the same products. For them in particular, trade reform has
improved allocative efficiency. Many complained about competition from smugglers,
however. With an 18 per cent VAT rate on top of the import duty, incentives for
smuggling are substantial and there is a lot of anecdotal evidence that it is still
widespread. There have been great efforts on the part of senior officials in the
customs administration to make sure that the new rules are being applied. At lower
levels, however, customs officials have not welcomed the change in their authority to
interpret the rules regarding importation in a way that is less than transparent .......
However, all companies interviewed indicated that problems connected with imports
had declined sharply and that there were now few problems with exporting."
9 Geoffrey J. Bannister, The Peruvian Pre-Shipmenr Inspection Program, International Trade Division,
World Bank, July 1993.



Annex 4                           The Trade Policy Reform Loan                        78
29.          But this radically changed climate for trade has not yet been translated into a
measurably different role for trade in the Peruvian economy. This reflects above all broad
developments in the economy. The economy is still in the process of stabilization. From a
high point of 43 percent a month on average in 1990, inflation has continued to fall. It has
remained below two percent a month for most of the time since September 1993. Real GDP
at best stagnated from 1990 through 1992, but began a vigorous recovery from the last
quarter of 1992. The overall growth of the economy in 1993 was seven percent. The signs
of recovery of confidence in the economy, on the part of local and foreign business, are
evident.
30.          Since 1990 imports and exports (of goods and non-factor services) have both
grown in dollar terms, thus reversing the absolute decline of the 1980s. In recent years
exports have grown in line with the growth of the economy as a whole, and there is as yet no
clear change in the commodity structure of exports, except for a slow increase in the share of
non-traditional exports. In the years 1990-92, terrorism, weather conditions, and the cholera
epidemic contributed to a sluggish export performance, especially in mining, fishing, and
tourism. Imports grew faster than the economy, until 1992 at least. The structure of
imports is changing in two dimensions. First, consistent with the removal of state
monopolies and the recent process of privatization, there has been a strong fall in the share
of the public sector in imports (though the trend appears to have started before mid-1990).
The public sector now accounts for about 16 percent of imports (third quarter of 1993),
compared to 45 percent in 1989. Second, since the initial trade reform measures in 1990,
the share of consumer goods has grown steadily (from 11 percent of all imports in 1989 to
over 20 percent in 1993). Nowhere is this development reflected more dramatically than on
the streets. A couple of years ago, most cars on the road looked as if they should be in
museums or junkyards. Imports of new and second-hand cars (especially the latter) have
since completely changed the picture.
31.          The faster growth of imports than exports reflected a large growth in the
current-account deficit of the balance of payments, which doubled to $2 billion from 1990 to
1992 (but remained unchanged for 1993, according to preliminary estimates). This deficit
was the result of a sharp growth in short-term capital flows following the capital-account
liberalization of 1990-91. The earlier period of the reform -- 1990-92 -- coincided with
substantial complaints from the private sector about the effect of an overvalued exchange rate
on their ability to compete. There are substantial problems in measuring Peru's real
exchange rate, prior to 1991 at least. According to the most frequently used measure (that of
the Central Bank), the real exchange rate appreciated steadily after the mid-1980s. From
1990 to 1992 it appreciated by 25 percent, but depreciated 16 percent in 1993.
32.          Notwithstanding the apparent appreciation, it is difficult to argue that the
exchange rate is misaligned: the Central Bank has continued to accumulate reserves in recent
years; the current account deficit, though high, is considered sustainable from an
indebtedness point of view; the price of non-tradable goods in Peru is probably not excessive
by international standards; and the recent productivity gains Peru has enjoyed are a reason
for a real appreciation. The appreciation that followed stabilization in Peru is consistent with
the experience of other countries eliminating high inflation (for instance Argentina in 1991
and Israel in 1985): the stabilization removes the artificial scarcity of foreign exchange,



Annex 4                         The Trade Policy Reform Loan                       79
while economic reforms encourage the repatriation of savings. In addition, the. fall in
interest rates in world markets has encouraged financial flows to Peru.
Conclusions
33.          The Trade Policy Reform Loan was based on a sweeping and simple reform
program which took place within a broader and supporting program of macro- and
microeconomic reforms. The essence of the reform was to move trade policy to a stance
approaching neutrality, i.e. where there is minimal policy discrimination between different
economic activities, between, firms, or between imports and exports. Peru's trade reform
was in general as radical and rapid as that observed in any other country, including Chile and
Bolivia. In the very early days of the Government, the Bank's advice was important. From
early 1991 onwards, the initiative in design was clearly that of the Governrment. There is no
doubt of Peruvian "ownership".
34.          The trade reforms have been completely effective in moving trade operations
to a more market-oriented system of incentives and greater integration with the world
economy. While the Peruvian economy has now begun a strong recovery from decades of
stagnation and a subsequent period of recession (induced by the stabilization), it is as yet
difficult to identify measurable changes in the structure or level of trade (beyond a rapid
growth in imports and some change in their composition), hence to measure the gains from
trade reforms. If the economic reforms are maintained, measurable benefits are soon likely
to be apparent.
35.          Is the reform sustainable? The essence of the conventional wisdom -- which
still has much to learn -- on this can perhaps be expressed in the following conclusion from a
Bank research project that studied 36 liberalization episodes in 19 countries.
".... for reform to succeed, a small group of factors -- each entirely within the
government's control -- appears to really count: The program should be bold and it
should start with a bang. Any quantitative restrictions should be rapidly dismantled.
Where appropriate, the program should begin with a substantial real depreciation of
the currency. And there must be a stable macroeconomic enviromnent. Almost
every program that has followed these four simple rules has succeeded. "l0
The Peruvian reform is, by the above criteria, classically sustainable, with the proviso that
there was not a "substantial real depreciation". The latter has not apparently occurred in
Peru: the perception among economic agents was especially prevalent in 1991-92 that the
currency was overvalued. There is no evidence that, under the circumstances, the currency
could have been much more depreciated, if only because there was a strong inflow of short-
term capital over which the Government did have (and could have) only limited control. On
the other hand, a more depreciated currency would undoubtedly have helped in the "political
economy" of trade reform by raising the profitability of exporting and thereby more rapidly
creating a new political constituency for trade reform. The real exchange rate has
' Page 41 of Demetris Papageorgiou, Anmeane M. Choksi, and Michael Michaely, Liberalizing Foreign
Trade in Developing Countries: the Lessons of Experience, Washington, D.C.: the World Bank, 1990.



Annex 4                           The Trade Policy Reform Loan                        80
depreciated since 1992, so that the problem of perceptions has receded and the opportunities
for profitable exporting have grown. More generally, domestic politics are likely to be the
main determinant of the sustainability of Perii's economic reforms, including trade reform.
Maintaining democratic procedures, given the political turmoil of recent years, while
providing continuity in economic policy is a large challenge. On the other hand, after a
quarter-century of economic mismanagement and decline, many people share a stake in, and
hope for, Peru6's economic reforms.
36.          The experience of the Trade Policy Reform loan contains some lessons of a
narrower, more technical kind.
*     The Loan provided support, if less than enthusiastically, to the agricultural
surcharges scheme on the argument that food price stabilization could benefit the
economy. The scheme (providing a price floor, but not a ceiling) was never the best
design to stabilize prices. It has, in the event, operated most unsatisfactorily, with
frequent changes in rules in response to private rent-seeking initiatives. The scheme
has therefore not stabilized prices and certainly not benefitted farmers. And it has
threatened to open a protectionist breach that might be exploited in attempts to reverse
other measures of the trade reform. With great effort -- and largely thanks to
pressure applied by the IDB -- the scheme was more or less returned to its original
shape. In retrospect, the Bank's efforts should have been applied to fundamentally
changing the scheme (a flat surcharge, for instance, but preferably a complete
elimination). Failing this, the Bank should have left the scheme alone.
-     As more and more Bank member country undertake fundamental trade reforms, Bank
expertise needs to encompass, in addition to the "why" and "how" of trade reform, a
new set of issues which, broadly speaking, come under the heading of "trade
facilitation". Prominent among these are issues such as customs reform (including the
role of pre-shipment inspection), port reform, and implications of reform for transport
infrastructure. The Loan supported a customs reform program. IDB provided the
major input, negotiating project conditions with the Government and closely
supervising implementation. The Bank relied heavily on the IDB in the design and
supervision of this component, which appears to have been very effectively
implemented. This may have been a somewhat too passive stance for the Bank. It
reflects the fact that the Bank does not have the expertise to form an independent view
of the customs reform process (without a minimum expertise, it is often not profitable
to employ expert consultants). The Bank needs to acquire its own expertise in
customs issues (as it is already beginning to do in the area of pre-shipment
inspection).
*     Perui, having eliminated a large array of clearly protectionist non-tariff barriers, now
has to deal with discriminatory elements in residual non-tariff barriers imposed for
health, safety, and security reasons. The issue is not necessarily one of getting rid of
these barriers; they respond, in theory at least, to valid problems of public health and
so on. The issue is to be able to distinguish justifiable cases of public-good barriers
from unjustifiable cases and to design an efficient and non-discriminatory mechanism.
Again, the Bank could benefit from developing its own expertise in this area.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL             81
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN (LOAN 3437-PE)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3452-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. THE PROJECT REVIEW
FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Report No.022-94-EF/UC-PS)
I. Introduction
1.          The objective of this report is to evaluate both the Borrower's and the Bank's
performance during the evolution and implementation of the project, with an emphasis on the
lessons which may be relevant for the future.
II. Performance of the Bank
2.            Since the inauguration of the Fujimori administration, one of the
Government's main objectives has been the reintegration of Peru into the international
financial community. To achieve this goal, the clearance of protracted arrears to the three
International Financial Institutions (IFIs) -- IMF, IBRD, IDB -- was sought. The
reestablishment of the government's relations with the IFIs would enable Peru to gain access
to loans in support of the program of economic reform which it was implementing.
3.          To enable the clearance of the arrears to the IBRD, given that the US$ 900
million disbursement from the Bank's Trade Policy Reform Loan, Structural Adjustment
Loan, and Financial Sector Reforn Loan were contingent upon this clearance, a bridge loan
was arranged for Peru from the United States Treasury and Japan's Eximbank.
Disbursement of the three Bank loans occurred once arrears were cleared and once the
country had complied with several other loan conditions tied to the execution of the
Government's structural adjustment reform program.
4.          These structural reforms performed the dual role of consolidating the
stabilization process and laying the basis for sustainable growth. In a market-based economy
such structural reforms make up the country's medium-term economic policy program. They
focus on the elimination of the state interventionist policies that characterized Peri's previous
administrations through public sector reform, privatization, dismantlement of barriers to the
functioning of competitive markets, and an effective assault on problems of poverty and
social backwardness.
5.          The maintenance and implementation of measures agreed under the loans
provided by the IFIs were overseen by the Government through the Coordination Unit for



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               82
Sectoral Loans in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The unit wNas first
conceived as part of the design of the IDB's loans to Peru and was financed through
technical cooperation loans tied to the IDB structural adjustment operations.
6.           The Coordination Unit acts as the technical entity responsible for maintaining
constant communication with the Bank and the IDB to ensure adequate coordination of joint
actions. In this context, it serves as the Ministry of Economy and Finance's official
representative during meetings between Bank and IDB staff visiting the country on
supervision missions. In fulfilling its role, the Coordination Unit relies upon the Bank for
the technical advice required to monitor progress in the achievement of the objectives of the
structural reform program.
7.           In the particular case of the Bank, it is important to note the need to identify
alternate joint actions to improve the execution of investment loans. This process could lead
to overall improvement in the design of future Peru projects. In the same way, it is crucial
that the present level of coordination with the Bank be maintained so that the government,
through its various offices, and the Bank are in a position to agree on appropriate positions
and courses of action. Coordination will contribute to strengthened relations between the
Government and the IFIs and, more importantly, to fully consolidating the stabilization
program now being implemented in the different sectors of the Peruvian economy.
Trade Sector
8.           Reform of the trade sector has established the basis for an open-economy
development strategy. Foreign trade liberalization, reduction of the number of customs
tariffs and the move towards a uniform tariff, unification of several types of exchange rates,
the opening of capital markets, and the reintegration of Peru into the international financial
community have enabled the country to enjoy the benefits of an open economy exposed to
international competition. These measures have provided the foundation for sustainable
economic growth.
9.           The primary objective of the new tariff policy was to improve the efficiency of
resource allocation and to increase fiscal revenues through the unification of tariff rates and
the elimination of tariff exemptions.
10.          As stated earlier, Peru resumed relations with the Inter-American Development
Bank through the initiation of the structural adjustment program. The first step was to
negotiate a Trade Policy Reform Loan with the IDB, signed in September 1991. Once the
first tranche of this loan was disbursed, Peru cleared its arrears to the IDB. Subsequently
the remaining tranches of this loan, as well as funds from other IDB adjustment loans, were
directed towards supporting the country's balance of payments.
11.         In December 1992, the Bank confirmed Peru's full compliance with the
conditions set forth in the Trade Policy Reform Loan (3437-PE). In this context, the Bank
and the IDB worked in close cooperation to coordinate their analyses, proposing common
solutions to the problems arising during the reform process.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL              83
Structural Adjustment
12.         The objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan called for reform in the areas
of macroeconomic and fiscal policy, the social sector, agriculture, privatization, social
security, and the labor markets. These objectives were fulfilled on November 30, 1992. As
a result, loan signing took place on December 22, 1992.
III. Performance of the Borrower
13.         At the inception of the reform program, monitoring and execution were
concentrated on the Ministry of Economy and Finance. To an extent this explains the lack of
strategic coordination with the other institutions involved in the program. This resulted in a
situation where many government entities were ignorant of the agreements that the
Government of Peru had reached with the Bank. The reform program suffered as a result.
14.         Once infornation dissemination improved, mainly by means of the
Coordination Unit, these entities became active participants in the program. This allowed the
establishment of coordinated processes and measures for effective implementation.
IV. Trade Policy Reform Loan Objectives
15.         We indicate below the most important elements of the sectoral reform process
and the status of reform at the date of writing.
a. Trade Policy
Several reforms were enacted to facilitate foreign trade procedures. Among
the most significant was D.S. No. 033-91-EF which established a two-tier tariff system, with
rates at 15 percent and 25 percent. D.S. No. 060-91-EF eliminated foreign trade barriers
and Import and Export Registries, as well as other restrictions.
Legislative Decree No. 668 enacted in September 1991 gave the force of law
to some of the trade reforms that had been implemented in March of that same year. This
Decree guaranteed rights to free commerce, both inside and outside the country, as a
fundamental condition for the country's development. The decree consolidated the new tariff
policy, eliminated state monopolies, and gave the private sector access to the infrastructure of
the state.
For the purpose of disbursement conditions for the IDB's Trade Policy Reform
Loan, the provisions of these decrees gave palpable fonn to a set of policies necessary to
guarantee the consolidation of the reform process.
In addition, Decree Law No. 25789, enacted on October 21, 1992, reversed
previous prohibitions and restrictions on the import of second-hand goods with the exception
of used clothing and shoes.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                 84
In order to unify the tariff structure, Supreme Decrees Nos. 027-92-EF, 125-
92-EF and 100-93-EF were enacted to establish an almost flat 15-percent tariff. This leaves
only 13 percent of the universe of tariffs subject to the 25 percent ad valorem rate.
Once Decree Law No. 25629 (July 22, 1992) was then passed, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance was required to endorse all trade policy legislation. In the same vein,
Decree Law No. 25909 (December 1, 1992) stipulated that only this Ministry had the right to
take measures to restrict the free flow of imports and exports of goods.
Thereafter, Decree Law No. 25988 (December 24, 1992) led to the adoption
of the Law for the Simplification of the National Tax System and for the Elimination of
Concessions and Surcharges. This Law allowed the reorganizing of the country's tax
regime.
Among the Legislative Decrees that Congress empowered the Executive to
enact was a set of Decrees passed on December 31, 1993, to establish a new national tax
system. These included the following:
-     Legislative Decree No. 771, establishing the legal framework for the National
Tax System, stipulated the following Central Government taxes: income tax,
general sales tax, selective consumption tax, customs tariffs, and rates for
public-sector services.
-     Legislative Decree No. 775 approved the new text of the Law for the General
Sales Tax and the Selective Consumption Tax (IGV and ISC). This decree
ratifies the drawback of the IGV and rescinds the drawback on the ISC on
fuels.
*     Legislative Decree No. 779 modifies the Free Trade Zones Law by
substantially restricting its application.
*     Legislative Decree No. 781 elevates to the status of a law Extraordinary
Supreme Decree (DSE) No. 159-PCM/93 which establishes the regulations
designed to facilitate the ground servicing of airplanes.
Complementary measures in Supreme Decree No. 101-93-EF eliminated the
Selective Consumption Tax for certain categories of services and reduced it for others since
collection rates for this tax are low and administrative costs high. These measures have
reduced incentives to smuggle by reducing the profitability of this activity.
Finally, the Government will continue to simplify the tariff structure until a
flat 15-percent ad valorem rate is reached. The expected fiscal impact will be
counterbalanced by an increase in the volume of imports. The policy will enable greater
customs efficiency. It will discourage smuggling and encourage a rise in consumption levels
as a result of falling prices.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL              85
b. INDECOPI
The National Institute for the Defense of Competition and the Protection of
Intellectual Property Rights (INDECOPI) was established through Decree Law No. 25868
(November 24, 1992). It is the governmental entity responsible for applying legal measures
to protect the market from: 1) monopolistic and restrictive activities in the production and
sale of goods and services; 2) activities which may produce unfair competition: and 3)
activities which can harn economic agents and consumers. INDECOPI is also the entity
responsible for the protection of all forms of intellectual property rights.
The law which established INDECOPI empowered it, among its other
functions, to ensure compliance with the laws maintaining free trade. The law also requires
INDECOPI to assess how measures allowing non-tariff barriers are being implemented and
whether these measures contravene the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 668 and Decree
Law No. 25629.
Decree Law No. 26122 (December 30, 1992) set forth rules to prevent,
discourage, and punish actions contrary to good faith in business and to open competition in
economic activity.
INDECOPI issued the Resolution of the Commission on Supervision of
Technical Rules, Metrology, Quality Control and Non-Tariff Barriers (No. 004-94-
INDECOPI/CNM, April 24, 1994. This Resolution declared the inapplicability of Supreme
Decree No. 004-93-AG which established non-tariff measures violating the conditions
required for MEF to approve new rules that create an interference in the free flow of goods.
In the same way, INDECOPI vetoed Supreme Decree No. 0015-93/RE which
approved the implementing regulations for Law No. 26219 covering the distribution of
geographical, cartographical, and historical texts and/or publications. INDECOPI did this
because the legislation did not meet with the approval of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance under the provisions of Decree Law No. 25629. This veto has led to a draft
Supreme Decree to correct the matter.
c. Customs Reform
Legislative Decree No. 722 (November 11, 1991) put into practice the New
General Customs Law. This was put into effect on March 28, 1992 with the issue of the
implementing regulations (Supreme Decree No.058-92-EF). This law has undergone some
modifications in an effort to match customs regulation with the reform process in this sector.
To facilitate the application of the law, Supreme Decree No. 45-94-EF (April
26, 1994) was enacted to unite all the legal rules that modified the original law within a
Codified Text of the General Customs Law.
Various legal measures have been enacted to simplify and expedite customs
procedures and regimes. Among the most important modifications to the General Customs
Law are the following:



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL              86
e     Decree Law No. 26014 (December 1992) which established the principle of "good
faith" and the presumption of veracity as the fundamental basis for all foreign-trade
procedures and delegated more functions and responsibilities to the private sector.
This decree also specified the concepts of physical inspection and documentary
verification, requiring random physical inspection for a maximum of 15 percent of the
total number of import declarations presented in any one day.
*     Extraordinary Supreme Decree No. 013-93/PCM (March 1993) established the Inward
Processing Regime (Regimen de Trafico de Perfeccionamiento Activo) to expedite and
simplify the regimes for Temporary Admission and Replenishment of Stocks for
Duty-Free Goods.
*     In addition several Procedural Manuals and Directives were approved in mid-1993,
notably covering Exports, Imports, Industrial Free Trade Zones, Manifests,
Temporary Admission of Goods, and Withdrawal of Goods from Bond.
*     Within the group of Legislative Decrees establishing the new taxation system in
December 1993 was Legislative Decree No. 778. It revised the definition of imports
for domestic consumption, improved the temporary export regime, clarified grounds
for the suspension of customs agents and the sanctions to be applied in these cases,
and improved the regimes for temporary admittance and withdrawal of goods from
bond.
In terms of institutional reform, Legislative Decree No. 26020 (December 28,
1992) approved the new Organic Law of the customs administration, while Supreme Decree
No. 073-93-EF (1 May, 1993) approved its Statute. The latter decree also established its
new organizational structure, as well as the functions associated with each level of the new
structure. The customs administration now has a new, remodeled headquarters building and
is currently completing the implementation of its computer network system.
d. Ports
The process of privatizing the ports, which began with the port of Ilo, is
underway.
The new policy for ports provides for a fundamental separation of port
operations from administration, requiring the state to design and execute the new regulatory
framework for ports.
The new policy for the sector will modify the regulatory framework to redirect
the operation and administration of ports towards the private sector, within the context of a
policy of long-term territorial concessions and/or the award of special operating licenses.
This new policy will increase the possibilities for competition on prices, will be able to
reduce charges that are not related to services, and will block the formation of port
monopolies. At the same time, some time will be required to enable the rehabilitation,
modernization, and expansion of specialized facilities.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               87
The execution of this program will guarantee that investment in the port sector
will effectively reflect market needs. In this context, the State will have a minority share in
some of these investments, while the private sector will be exclusivelv responsible for
identifying and executing future investments.
e. Tariff Surcharges
The Government simultaneously agreed with the IDB and the Bank on the
revision of the tariff surcharge formula with respect to the standard deviation which will be
progressively reduced in accordance with a schedule ending in 1997. The scheme's objective
was to reduce the fluctuation in import costs, hence in domestic prices, so that domestic
producers could make their decisions under conditions typical of competitive markets.
Therefore protection would only be required in those cases where international prices fell to
levels below their long-term trends.
In this context, Supreme Decree No. 114-93-EF (28 July, 1993) up-dated the
surcharges and customs schedule for imports of products to be made subject to variable
specific tariff rates, as covered by D.S. No. 016-91-AG and its amendments.
The Central Reserve Bank of Perui was charged with the revision and updating
of the tariff surcharge tables on a semi-annual basis. Accordingly the reference prices for
the imported products subject to the surcharge scheme are updated and published on a weekly
basis. The scheme is under constant review in order to ensure that it fulfills the objectives
for which it was created.
f. ENCI (National Input Marketing Company).
The Government has revised the method it will employ in the privatization
process for ENCI. It has established that the company's privatization will be implemented
by transferring to the private sector all or a part of the company's shares or assets. In
accordance with the Letter of Intent sent to the IMF, the privatization process will be
concluded by December 1994.
g. ECASA (Rice Marketing Company).
To expedite the process of dismantling and liquidating ECASA, Emergency
Decree No. 30-94 (July 8, 1994) was enacted to establish measures to restructure it
economically and financially through the transfer of company assets to public enterprises.
This would enable the settlement of ECASA's debts.
Once the company's liquidation process is completed, alternative measures will
be proposed to enable private sector marketing of production.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL             88
V. Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan
16.         Effectiveness of the Structural Adjustment Loan was subject to compliance
with objectives in the following areas: macroeconomic, fiscal, social, agriculture,
privatization, social security, and the labor markets.
17.         Conditions in the macroeconomic area included: a free market in foreign
exchange, resumption of foreign debt service payments, a stable monetary policy, and market
determiniation of interest rates, prices and salaries. In tune with the policy of an open
economy, these macroeconomic measures have been gradually and irrevocably implemented.
At the end of May of this year the Peruvian Government's Letter of Intent was
submitted to the International Monetary Fund. 1994 targets included: reduction and gradual
stabilization of inflation to a level between 15 and 20 percent, real growth of GDP in excess
of five percent, and the deepening of structural reforms to improve efficiency and domestic
savings.
18.         Loan objectives for fiscal policy aimed at eliminating poorly designed taxes,
simplifying the tax system, and improving tax administration. The new tax system has been
revised, with effect from January 1, 1994, through the Framework Law for the National Tax
System (Legislative Decree No. 771). Under this, the Central Government is now entitled to
collect the following taxes: income tax, sales tax, selective consumption tax, customs tariffs,
and rates for public-sector services.
19.         In the area of social policy the Government drew up, with the Bank's
assistance, a poverty alleviation strategy. This strategy was later presented to Peru's
Consultative Group for Social Support in June 1993. At this meeting, the international
community was informed that the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development
(FONCODES) was the Governmental entity charged with handling social welfare resources.
This first meeting of the Consultative Group for Social Support enabled Peru
to receive bilateral and multilateral aid commitments of approximately US$ 900 million. The
meeting also led to further meetings to designate aid to Peru in the social sphere. This
resulted in grant agreements with Switzerland, Germany, and Canada. A second
Consultative Group Meeting, in May 1994, was presented with an updated social-sector
strategy, including the steps necessary for social stability.
This second Consultative Group Meeting was held with representatives of ten
supporting countries and nine international organizations. It mobilized resources in the
amount of US$ 1,100 million, of which US$ 250 million were pledged to Peru through
donor grants and US$ 850 million were pledged through loans. Of the total US$ 1,100
million pledged, US$ 90 million will be utilized for technical assistance and the remaining
amount will fund investment projects of multilateral organizations.
From its inception in 1991 to June 1994, FONCODES has channelled US$ 374
million in financial aid funds through the approval of 10,764 projects. In addition
FONCODES has obtained two loans, each of US$ 100 million, from the IDB and the Bank.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               89
20.          Another social sector loan objective was the preparation of project profiles in
health, nutrition, and education. The Government is now developing a Program of Focus on
Social Expenditures. The program aims at directing funds towards the areas of health,
education, and justice through a reform of the budgetary process aimed at achieving specific
objectives as a result of identifying the needs of each sector.
In addition, the Government has received support from the Bank through the
Basic Health and Nutrition Loan in the amount of US$ 34 million.
21.          Peru is implementing an aggressive, accelerated program of privatization
aimed at transferring to the private sector every one of its roughly 140 state-owned-
enterprises by 1995. The privatization program will generate sales and investments
representing billions of dollars.
Among the objectives achieved by the Structural Adjustment Loan was the
establishment of an institutional framework for Peni consistent with the Privatization Law.
Other objectives included an action plan and policy frameworks for the privatization of the
following sectors: banking, fisheries, mining, oil and gas, electricity, telecommunications,
transport, water and sewerage, and industry.
The privatization strategy for each sector was presented in the form of a letter
from the official in charge of that sector describing the measures to be taken. This formed
the basis for the privatization component of the structural adjustment loan and for the
technical assistance in the area of privatization.
In April 1993 the Bank's Board approved a US$ 250 million Privatization
Adjustment Loan and a US$ 30 million Technical Assistance Loan. The Technical
Assistance Loan and the Japanese Grants to which it was linked represent an important
support mechanism for the Government's privatization program.
Finally, it should be noted that so far 39 companies have been privatized. The
total price paid was U$ 2,172 million, equivalent to around 6 percent of Peru's GDP. In
1991 two companies were sold for U$S 1.7 million, in 1992 ten companies were sold for
US$ 209 million, in 1993 13 companies were sold for US$ 318 million, and so far during
1994 another 14 have been privatized for a total price of US$ 1,643 million. These figures
represent the net income for the Treasury.
22.          The loan objectives in the agricultural sector include the liquidation of ECASA
and the implementation of ENCI's reorganization. ECASA's liquidation process is being
accomplished gradually, and Emergency Decree No. 30-94 has been enacted to carry out the
dissolution and liquidation of the company. ENCI is being restructured through a
privatization process involving the partial or total transfer of its assets by December 1994.
23.          The labor market, which was excessively protectionist in the past, has
undergone reforms to make labor relations more flexible and guarantee, among other things,
freedom to contract and to negotiate labor contracts. The objective of these measures is to
reduce the costs and risks of contracting and to promote employment in the long term.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL                90
The specific loan objectives in the labor area included greater flexibility in
probationary employment procedures, greater flexibility in labor markets, reduced costs
associated with personnel turnover, and improvement in the compensation for time of service
(CTS) scheme. These reforms are irreversible.
24.          Finally, loan objectives for social security included the creation of a Private
Pension System, thereby strengthening Peru's capital markets, and improvements in
procedures to collect social security contributions. The objective requiring an audit of the
accounts of the Peruvian Social Security Institute (Instituto Peruano de Seguridad Social-
IPSS) led to the declaration that the institution's accounts were in a state of emergency.
IDB financing under a technical assistance loan, has enabled the Government
to proceed with the process of separation of IPSS accounts. This laid the basis for the
creation of an Office for the National Pension System (Oficina de Normalizacion
Previsional).
VI. Lessons Learned
25.          As previously indicated, during the process of fulfilling loan objectives several
public institutions involved in the reform program failed to receive timely information about
the commitments that the Government had made and in many cases did not give the
commitments the priority they required. Therefore, it is vital that the Government continue
to promote the participation of the agencies involved in the reforms by having letters of
development policy signed not only by the Minister of Economy and Finance but also by
those in charge of these agencies. This has recently become the practice.
26.          When the loan conditionality of both the IDB and the Bank is similar or in
those instances when action plans and procedures are identical, there should be a better
coordination between both institutions so that they can reach the common objective of
effective benefits for the borrower. At the same time, it would be useful if the different
divisions of the Bank could move towards agreeing on a procedure for creating a unified
position which, in turn, would allow a unified Bank negotiating position to be established.
27.          In the case of the IDB's sectoral loans to Peru, the amount devoted to arrears
clearance was matched by an amount devoted to balance-of-payments support. Although it is
true that the arrears owed to the Bank were three times those owed to IDB, the Bank's
support of the reform implementation process could have been completed earlier had there
been greater balance-of-payments aid to Peru.
28.          Finally, loans in support of Peri's balance of payments are of great
importance as they serve to relieve the pressures on the Government's budget, thereby
providing support to the structural reform process.



Project Completion Report: TPRL and SAL               91
VII. Bank and Borrower Relations During Loan Implementation
29.          Through the relationship established between the Bank and the borrower, the
pursuit of the objectives of the sectoral loans enabled the development of important areas
such as capital markets. Likewise, the Bank's assistance was instrumental in bringing about
Peru's complete reintegration into the international financial community.
30.          Similarly, it is also important to recognize the valuable support the Bank gave
in different sectors of the Peruvian economy throughout the reform process initiated by the
Government in 1990. In this context, although it is evident that the country has significantly
improved its economic outlook, it is precisely now that Peru must look to the continued
support of the Bank, given that the country is currently launching the final phase of its
structural adjustment process. Economic stabilization and sustained economic growth depend
on the successful conclusion of this process.
The sectoral adjustment loans have not only been a vital source of financing in
support of the country's balance of payments, but have also played the catalytic role of
facilitating negotiations and agreement on actions designed to advance the reform program.
Quite apart from the stabilization program and the strategy for Peru's reintegration into the
international financial community, it is essential to be able to rely on these types of loans so
that the Government can guarantee fulfillment of sectoral commitments and the reform
program can therefore be maintained.



- 92 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
(LOAN #3437-PE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amounts (US$ million)
LOAN POSITION
Outstanding
Oriainal       Disbursed         Cancelled     Repaid       As of 1/31/94
Loan 3437-PE             300.00         300.00            0.00          0.00          300.00
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Original Loan Dates              Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum             07/12/91                         08/22/91 A
Letter of Development Policy      12/04/91                         01/09/92 A
Negotiations                      08/26/91                          11/15/91 A
Board Approval                    10/29/91                         02/04/92 A
Loan/Credit Agreement             11/27/91                          12/22/92 A
Effectiveness                     03/18/91                         03/18/93 A
Loan/Credit Closing               06/30/93                         06/30/93 A
Actual Completion                 12/30/93                         06/31/94
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY93
Planned                                            $US300M
Actual                                             $US300M
Actual as % of Planned                               100%
Date of Final Disbursement:
March 18, 1993 (Arrears Clearance)
STAFF INPUT
(Manweeks)
FY91             FY92            FY93             FY94           TOTAL
Preparation               31.7             30.5              -                -               62.2
Appraisal                   -              18.5              -                -               18.5
Negotitations               -              13.1              -                -               13.1
Supervision                 -               12.7             7.1              2.0             21.8
PCR                         -                -                -               0.4              0.4
Sub-Total               31.7             74.8              7.1              2.4             116.0



-93 -
MISSION DATA
Month/Year   No. of Weeks  No. of Persons   Staff Weeks    Date of Report
(staff & cons.)
Preparation                06/91         2             12              31.7          06/04/91
Appraisal                  09/91         2                             18.5
Supervision I FY92                                                     12.7
Supervision II FY93                                                    7.1
Supervision III FY94                                                   2.0
Completion                 05/94                                       0.4           05/31/94
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
SAL I, FSAL AND SAL II
Operation: Structural Adjustment Loan I
Loan No.: 3452-PE
Amount:  $300.0 million
Board Date: 03/26/92
Operation: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan No.: 3489-PE
Amount:  $400.0 million
Board Date: 06/17/92
Operation: Structural Adjustment II
Loan No.: 6PERPA136
Amount: US$100.0 million
Board Date: 07/15/95 (estimated date)



-94-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN #3452-PE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amounts (US$ million)
LOAN POSITION
Outstanding
Original       Disbursed          Cancelled     Revaid        As of 1/31/94
Loan 3452-PE             300.00          300.00             0.00          0.00          300.00
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Original Loan Dates               Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum              10/10/91                          10/10/91 A
Letter of Development Policy       12/16/91                          02/20/92 A
Negotiations                       12/02/91                          02/10/92 A
Board Approval                     01/21/92                          03/26/92 A
Loan/Credit Agreement              12/22/92                          12/22/92 A
Effectiveness                     02/15/93                           03/18/93 A
Loan/Credit Closing               06/30/93                           06/30/93 A
Actual Completion                  12/30/93                          06/31/94
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY93
Planned                                             SUS300M
Actual                                              SUS300M
Actual as % of Planned                                100%
Date of Final Disbursement:
March 18, 1993 (Arrears Clearance)
STAFF INPUT
(Manweeks)
FY91             FY92             FY93              FY94           TOTAL
Preparation                77.4             61.2               -                 -              138.6
Appraisal                   -                15.5              -                 -               15.5
Negotiations                -                18.9              -                 -               18.9
Supervision                 -                9.6              16.4               -               26.0
PCR                         -                 -                -                0.3               0.3
Sub-Total                 77.4            105.2              16.4              0.3             199.3



- 95 -
MISSION DATA
Month/Year   No. of Weeks   No. of Persons   Staff Weeks    Date of Report
(staff & cons.)
Preparation                 09/91        2              7               77.4           10/10/91
Appraisal                   12/91        2              5               15.5           12/18/91
Supervision I FY92          11/92         1             1                9.6           11/10/92
Supervision II FY93         03/93         1             1               16.4           04/01/93
Completion (PCR)            05/94                                                      05/31/94
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
FSAL AND SAL II
Operation: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan No.: 3489-PE
Amount:  $400.0 million
Board Date: 06/17/92
Operation: Structural Adjustment Loan II
Loan No.: 6PERPA136
Amount:  $100.0 million
Boar    o: 09/27/94 (estimated date)






GLOSSARY
CCD           Congreso Democratico Constituyente
(Democratic Constituent Congress)
CERTEX        Certificado de Reintegro Tributario a la Exportaci6n
(Export Tax Reimbursement Certificate)
COPRI         Comisi6n para la Promoci6n de la Inversi6n Privada
(Commission for the Promotion of Private Investment)
CTS           Compensation for Time and Services
ECASA         Empresa de Comercializaci6n del Arroz S.A.
(Rice Marketing Company)
EFF           Extended Fund Facility
ENCI          Empresa Nacional de Commercializaci6n de Insumos
(National Inputs Marketing Company)
FENT          Fondo de Exportaciones No Tradicionales
(Fund for Non-Traditional Exports)
FLAR          Fondo Latinoamericano de Reservas
(Latin American Reserve Fund)
FONCODES   Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social
(National Fund for Social Compensation and Development)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GTZ           Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Company for Technical Cooperation)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICE           Instituto de Comercio Exterior
(Foreign Trade Institute)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFIs          International Financial Institutions



IMF           International Monetary Fund
INDECOPI    Instituto Nacional de Defensa de Competencia y de la Propriedad Intellectual
(National Institute for the Defense of Free Competition and Intellectual
Property Rights)
MEF            Ministerio de Economfa y Finanzas
(Ministry oF Economy and Finance)
MICTI         Ministerio de Industria, Comercio Interior, Turismo e Integraci6n
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)
NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
RAP           Rights Accumulation Program
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SUNAD         Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas
(Customs Administration)
SUNAT          Superintendencia Nacional de Administracion Tributaria
(Tax Administration)
TPRL           Trade Policy Reform Loan
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
VAT            Value Added Tax






FILE COPY           G-b hZ
Report oC:      14157
Type: PCR



