42>f <> t   0      -LN.2-f  SfrKz
TheWofld Bnk
aM OM.CAL USE ONL'
MICROFICHE COPY
bpwt No. P-5666-PE
Report No. P- 5666-PE  Type: (PR)
SHEPHERD, / X31912 / I7 051/ LAlCO
REPORT AND RECOMMNATION
OF THE
PR-SIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIf 4- TORS
,'.                                    ON A
PROPOSEED T1OADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
JANUARY 10, 1992
This docnett has a resrictd dbutio and may be and by recip  only in thLe perfomance of
thei:oficia  s, ItsntetsmaY Mt otherw  be disrelsed without Worl   n   thoriati



MEN,CY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 30, 1991)
Currency Unit                  Nuevo Sol (SI.)V
US$1.00           -            S/.0.9S
SI.1.00           =            US$1.05
GOVERNMENTS FISCAL XEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ALADI         -   Asociacid6n Latino-Ametica  de Inttegract6n (Latin Ameria Integration Asociation)
CERTEX            Certiricado de Reinte   TnbutWat  a ta Exportacl4n (Export Tax Reimbutement Certificate)
CIF               Cost, Insurance and Freight
D.L          -   DecMo Lcgslatvo (Lgisatie Decree)
D.S.         -   Decreto Supremo (Supreme Decree)
ECASA        -   Empresa de Comercializacidn del Arroz SA (Rice Marketing Company)
ENCI         -   Empresa Naciontl de Comercializaa6n de Insumos (National Inputs Marketing Company)
FENT         -   Fondo de ExportaonOs No Tradiconales (Fund for Non-Taditional Exports)
F.AR         -   Fondo latinoeicno de Reservas (latin America Reserve Fund)
FONCODES  -   Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6o y De ollo Soial (National Fund for Socal Compensation and Development)
GATT         -   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP          -   Gross Domestic Product
17T          -   Deutsche Gsldhft Mir Teclnisdhe Zusammenarbeit (German Company for Technical Cooperation)
IFIs              International Fnancial Institutions
IBRD         -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Daelopment
ICB          -   International Competitive Bidding
ICE          -   Instituto de Comermio Extior (Institute for Foreign Trade)
IDB          -   Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          -   International MoUetaly Fund
MICm         -   Ministerto de Industria, Comercio Interior, Tuismo e Integracidn (Minitry of Industry, Commerce,
Tourism and Integmation)
NOOs         -   Non-Governmental Organiations
PETROPERU - Petrdleos del Perd, SA (Peru Oil)
RAP          -   Rights Accutmulation Progam
SAL          -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SUNAD        -   Supe utendencia Nacional de Aduanas (Customs Administration)
SUNAT        -   Superintendencia Nacdonal do Admhtacdon Tributaria (Tax Administration)
SDR          ^   Special Drawing Right
SOE          -   Statement of Expenditure
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF       -   United Nations International Chidren's Emegemy Fund
VAT          -   Value Added Tax
I/ On July 1, 1991, a new monetary unit, the Nuevo Sol (S/.), was introduced at a converaion factor of St.1.00 = I/m.1.00. The so-
caUed Inti MillMn (EIm.) - equivalent to one million Intis (11.1,000,O0M) - was instituted on December 16,1990, as a devie, eliminating
the last sx digits of any value in Intis, to simplify acounting and as a means of transition between the Inti and the Nuevo Sol.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
TADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
Table of Contents
page
Loan and ProgramSummary ........................................ v
L    The Project, the Debt Workout, and Country Strategy.                        1
The Project Context                         .I
The Bank's Approach in a Country
with Protracted Arrears1 .                                              I
The Bank's Approach in Peru ...... ..........................  1
IL The Economy ........................................ 6
The Economy Inherited ...................                               6
The Economic Reforms of the Fujimori Administration.                    7
The 1991-1992 Macroeconomic Stabilization Program .10
Risks and Assessment of the Stabilization Program .11
Monitoring the Stabilization Program .13
The Agenda for Structural Reforms .14
The Medium-Term Outlook.                                                15
m. ExternalFinancing .16
The External Debt Problem  . ................................           16
The External Financing Plan for 1991 and 1992 .16
External Fiancing Beyond the Performance Period .20
IV. External Trade: Performance and Policies .21
V.  Trade Policy Reform  ........ ...                                           22
Actual and Planned Reforms .23
The Expected Impact of Trade Policy Reform .26
The Agenda for Trade Policy .26
|This report was prepared by Geoffrey Shepherd, based on the findings of a preappraisal mision
to Peru In June, 1991, and appraisal in September. Contributors to the report were:
Roberto Abusada, Carlos Rodriguez, and Katerina Taigasides (consultants and preappraisal
miseion members) i Valeriano ¢arcia (Senior Economist, contributing to "Part in: The Ecoaomyn
on the basis of a September, 1991, mission to Peru to preappraise a structural adjustrest
loan); Janet Entwistle (Country Officer, contributlig to Part I: The Project, the Debt
Workout, and Country Strategy and Part IZII Esternal Fanancnlg) and Izumi Obno (Country
Officer) and Cessx Burga (consultants statistical support). Angellca Silvero provided
secretarial support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without Worl Bank authorization.



-il-
VL  The Proposed Loan ......................................... .    28
History of the Loan      ......................... 28
Reforms to be Supported under the Loan ....................... 28
The Loan ...................... 29
Procurement, Disbursement, Audit, and Administration .30
Technical Assistance .31
Letter of Development Policy .32
Conditions .32
Monitornag ar4 Reporting.                                    35
Cooperation with the IDB ................................... 36
Project Benefits ......  36
Project Risks ..... 36
The Social Impact ......                                     37
VIL Recommendation .....  38
Annexes
Annex 1 Economic Indicators ...................................... 39
Annex 2 Trade Statistics ......  51
Annex 3 Trade Policy Reform Loan: Policy Matrix .....  61
Annex 4 Non-Tariff Barriers ......  65
Annex 5 Customs Action Plan ...................................... 75
Annex 6 Letter of Development Policy .79
Annex 7 List of Project Documents ............. 97
Annex 8 Status of Bank Group Operations .99
Annex 9 Technical Assistancew ............ 101
Annex 10 Supplementary Data Sheet .............. 107



.-ii-
Tables and Figues
Text Tabls
Table 1   Projected Ficl Accounts,1991and 1992  .......................... 10
Table 2   External Financng Requiement
and Possible Sources of Funmcing, 1991and 1992 ................... 17
ADpen d  'rabies and Figs
Table 1.1 Peru: Balance of Payments Projectons: Current Account Ecluding Intest Payments,
1990-99 ...                                                        39
Table 12 Peru: Balmae of Payments Projections: Fmancing Requirements and Posuible Sources,
1990-99 ... 40
Table 13  Peru: National AccountsProjections,1990-99 ......    ................ 41
Table1.4 Penru  Projections of Key Economic Indicators, 1990-99 ..... .......... 42
Notesto Tables 1.1 to 1A  .............................................. 44
Table 1.5 Peru: Eitnal Debt Outstanding(Stocks as ofDecember1990) .... .... 47
Table 1.6 Peru: Montbly Economic Indicators, July 1990-September 1  ...... .... 48
Fgue 2.1 Peru: Ratios ofTradeto GDP,1950-1990 ......................... 51
Figure 2.2 Peru: Effective Protection from Tariffs on Manufactures, 1990-1991 ..... 52
Fmre 2.3 Peru: Real Exchange Rate Index 1985-1991 ....................... 53
Figure 2.4 Peru  Exports and Impots 1989-1991 ............................ 54
Fgmue 2.5 Peru: Black Market Exchange Rate Premium, 1985-1991 .............. 55
Figure 26 Peru: Production-Weighted Distnbution of Tariffs, 1990 and 1991 .......  6
Figure 2.7 Per Export Subsidies  1980-1990 ....  .......................... 57
Figure2.8 Peru: ExporTaTwsCollcted, 1980-1990 .......................... 8
Flge 2.9 Peru: Import Tas Coeoted, 1990-1991 .......................... 59
Table 4.i Peru: Non-Tariff Banrits, 1981-1990 (by Number of Tariff Categories) ... 65



.v.
PERU
TRAPE POLICY REFORM LOM
Loan and Program Summary
Republic of Peru
Executin, Agei:y             Ministry of Economy anc Fmance
Amount                       USS300 million equiva'ent
Texms:                       Repayable in 20 years, including five yeas of grace,
at the Banks standard variable interest rate.
Ln Obeves:                   The proposed loan would support the Government's
medium term program of trade polcy reform.
Lan Desription:              The loan would recogn!ze the major trade reform measures taken
between August, 1990, and September, 1991, and comprising: (i) a
reduction in tariff protection; (ii) the elimination of most non-tariff
barriers; (iii) the elimination of export subsidies ard impo t in
schemes allowing exporters to recuperate indirect taxs; (iv) the
abolition of the agency formerly administering trade controls and the
initiation of a reform of customs. The sectoral conditinns relate
largely to the maintenance of the current reforms, and measutes for
further reform are generally considered a secondary issue, except
insofar as further action is felt necessary to secure the current
reforms.
First, trade reform can be expected to lead Peru to a more efficnt
use of its resources through specialization in productive areas where
its comparative advantage is greatest and tbrough the compettive
pressures that freely available imports wil exert on domestic
producers. The removal of non-tarff bariers should also enable
those resources previously used to acquire varous Inport pesm
to be put to better uses. S   the project wil also reae beeft
through its contribution to Perus debt workut and reintegration into
the intemational financial community. In addition to providig some
freh eternal funds to Peru between now and the end of 1992, the
workout will open the door to resumption of a norma rela ip
with the Bank. The workout will allow Peem to normalize relations
with other multi- and bilateral donors even before the Bank itself
disburses.



Ihe survival of the trade reform could be threatened by ( i) a failure
in current efforts to stabilize the economy and a related failure to
maintain a real exchange rate providing sufficient incenties to the
export sector; (ii) pressures to reverse reforms fr m those adverewy
affected, inside and outside government, by the end of proteconist
practices; (iii) distortions that persist elsewhere in the economy (in
spite of recent reforrAs) and which may inhbit a flexible response
from producesa, (iv) the polit!cal uncertainty generated by a still-weak
government capacity and the unstable security situation which could
add risks to any reform movement in Peru; (v) the effect of social
unrest possibly delaying or arresting the reform process; and (vi) a
weakening of the coordinated support for the internal reform process
being providcL by the international financial community (a risk wbich
has recently diminished follwing the progress already made in
implementing the external financing plan). The trade reform process
is part of a larger program of stabilization and adjustment which is not
risk-free, yet (like the trade reform) has strong political support.
Estimted Disbursement:        The loan would be disbursed in one tranche. On Government
fulfillment of effectiveness conditions, the Bank would simultaneously
make the loan effective and release the tranche.
Staff Airraisal Renort:       Not applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
MOR TRADE POLICY REFORM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to the Republic
of Peru for the equivale.-t of US$300 million. The proposed loan would support the
Government's medium-term program of trade policy reform. The loan would be repayable over
20 years on a fixed amortization schedule, including five yean grace, at the B"k'es standard
variable interest rate and charges.
I. The PmIecL the Workout ProEam  and Countrr Strata!
The Project Context
2.       This Report proposes a $300 million adjustment loan for trade policy reform. Ihe
immediate objective of the loan is to encourage the current trade-reform process, which
represents one of the most far-reaching and rapid trade reforms carried out in the developing
world. The broader objective of this loan, as well as two proposed adjustment loans, is to allow
the Bank to participate in an internationall, supported approach to reintegrate Peru, which is
carrying out a bold program of stabilization and economic reform, into the international financial
community. This approach would provide Peru the opportunity to rehabilitate an economy much
damaged by the actior_ of past governtments and would enable the Bank and other donors to
resume a normal relationship of development assistance with Peru.
The Bank's Approach in a Country with P.-otracted Arrears
3.       On May 2, 1991, the Board approved a new approach to support debt workout
programs in countries with protracted arrears (Additional Support for Workout Programs in
Countries with Protracted Arrears. R91-70, April 11, 1991). It allows strong-performing countries
with large arrears to accumulate "contingent disbursements" during a pre-clearance 'performance
penod." Loans are presented to the Bank's Board dunng the performance perod, and once the
arrears to the Bank are cleared, at the end of the performance period, loans are signed and made
effective and all accumulated disbursements released. The new approach is analogous to the
DIFs Rights Accumulation Program (RAP), and requires the following four conditions to be met:
(a) the existence of an agreed financing plan; (b) an IM stabilization program; (c) a Bank-
supported adjustment program; and (d) continued current debt service payments to the Bank.
The Bankts Approach in Peru
4.       In order to assist Peru during the pe-arrears clearance performance period, expected
to last through December 1992, the Bank developed a country assistance strategy which conforms
with this new approach. On July 30, 1991, the Board approved the application to Peru of the
new approach (Peru: The Bank's Approach to a Country with Protracted Arrears. R91-171, July
12, 1991), opening the way for the implementation of this strategy. As a first step, the Bank



-2-
participated in the formulation of an external financing plan agreed to by the IMF, IDB, bilateral
donors, and the Government (see Sect;on IR. Concurrently, the Bank has been preparing, with
the help of its economic and sector work, an adjustment program to support reform efforts
underway in Peru. As required under the new approach, loans approveu' under this program wili
not be disbursed until the end of the performance period.
5.       The Bank also has been looking beyond the current period of protracted arrears
through FY95. During this period, the Bank expects to deepen its support of the adjustment
program through additional lending and econorr c and sector work, and also expects to present
investment loans now under preparation. These loans are lkely to take some time to prepare.
Investment loans are inherently more time-consuming to prepare than adjustment loans. They
require a complex mix of engineering, institutional, and human inputs and Peru's public
institutions, weak in part due to the past hiatus in Bank-Peix relations, are currently unable to
undertake the necessary preparation themselves.
6.       To counteract this weakness in public management, the Bank has launched a major
program of technical assistance, crucial for the successful implementation of the medima-termn
economic program. It has mobilized resources for these activities through the Japanese Grant
Facility and the German GTZ, and is currently exploring other possible sources of financing.
Thus, even before the Bank has been able to disburse, it has mobilized significant resources for
Peru for project preparation and implementation. It has so far secured Japanese grants for
approximately $8.0 million for seven technical assistance projects, for structural adjustment,
financial sector reform, debt statistics and management, social sector development, water and
sanitation, energy and privatization, and German GiZ grants for about $1.0 million for
agriculture, macroeconomic-stabilization and structural reforms, energy, mining and industry,
infErastructure, and human resource development.
7.       To assist the Government's efforts to reintegrate into the international financial
community, and subsequently to enhance and deepen the reforms undertaken during the period
of reintegration, the Banl's country assistance strategy is directed at four long-term strategic
objectives: (i) sustaining and accelerating the stabilization and adjustment process; (ii) fostering
private sector development and public sector reform; (iii) alleviating poverty and promoting
human resource development; and (iv) rehabilitating key infrastructure.
&        Sustaining and Accelerating the Stabilization and Adjustment Process. The Bank is
supporting the reforms of the Fujimori Government, which assumed office in July, 1990, and
immediately initiated structural reforms to reverse the economic policies of previous
administrations and achieve a sustained eoDnomic recovery. Reforms have been announced in
trade, monopoly rights and deregulation, privatization, ports, foreign investment, land reform,
labor markets, social security, tax policy and adm atio  and the financial sector (see
paragraphs 28-32).
9.       The Government of Peru must sustain these reforms and undertake further measures
before it can fully reap the rewards. Bank lending operations in Peru are initialy focussing on
three adjustment loans to support the Government's effort. This loan is the first to be presented
to the Board, and the other two, a structural adjustment loan and a financial sector reform loan,
wil be submitted in the remainder of FY92, assuming continued fulfillment of the four conditions



3 -
described in paragraph 3. Later an agricultural sector loan wil be prepared to support reforms in
agriculture.
10.      The SAL will address balanced medium-term tonomic development needs through a
multi-sector focus. It will aim at securing the Government's achievements and enhancing farther
reforms in the following areas: consolidaing the macroeconomic stabilization by maintaiing non-
inflationary financing of government expenditure, improving tax collection and supporting the tax
reform, redefining the functions of the government and reducing the number of public employees.
laying out the general and sectoral strategies to privatize state-owned enterprises in various
sectors, increasing labor mobility, laying out the strategy for reform of official pension schemes,
and reducing state intervention in agricultural markets. Ihe SAL would also help establish a clear
poicy and institutional framework for poverty alleviation identifying tatget groups and priority
program activities that refle  the needs of the poor.
11.      The financial sector reform loan will support the Government's efforts to liberalze the
financial system and thereby promote efficiency in financial intermediation. The loan will focus
specif Alk on: implementation of the new, liberal banking law in an environment of
strengthened banking supervision, a prograra of privatization of state-owned commercial banks,
reform of the development banks, restructuring of the major public-sector bank, the Banco de la
Nacion, and improvements in the securities law and partial privatization of social security.
12.      The groundwork for these adjustment loans was laid by economic and sector work
undertaken in late 1990-early 1991 on public sector reform and investment, structural reform, the
social sectors, and, in conjunction with UNDP, trade. The Bank is also undertaking firther
extensive studies on macroeconomic and structural reform, which will assist in maintaining
dialogue with the government on monetary. financial-sector, and labor policies A study on
monetary policy will help the Government maintain a stable macroeconomic eniionment and
sustain structural reforms. A financial sector report will analyze the status of financial institutions
and markets, and their inter-relatton with monetary and fiscal policies. A labor markets study will
seek to strengthen the role of markets in supply and demand for labor services. In addition, a
study on agricultural incentives is currently under preparation to analyze the i'itial impact of
agricultural reforms which have been undertaken, and indicate areas for further reform.
13.      Fostering Private Sector Development and Public Sector Refonn A number of
lending operations are under preparation which wil broaden the Banks support, initiated in the
SAL and iancial sector reform loan, for th Government's prvatization and publc sector reform
efforts 'These loans wil fous on the reform of public sector policies that restrict private sector
participation, as well as the privatirstion of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in energy, mining,
manufcturing, fisheries, uansportation, and telecommunications.
14.       In the energy sector, two loans are being prepared. An energy sector loan wil
support reform of energy poicy and private setr devlopment, including priwatition of SOE.
in the sector. In addition, in order to improve efficiency in production it will support
rehabilitation of facilities. Policy reforms wi include the establishment of tariff structures based
on economic principles, and of regulatory stuctures conducive to efficient use of energy
ources.  he loan wil support privatization of Electrolima, one of the largest electricity
distribution companies, and foster private sector de%elopment in the oil exploration and extaction
industry. A subsequent power sector loan will build on the enerD sector loan to support



-4-
continued sector reform, including tariff reform, institutional strengthening, and a kieview of
Etctroperu's functions. It wvl also include components to support privatization of regional
companies and to foster private sector power generation. A mining reform loan will improve
sector efficiency through policy reforms and by closing uneconomic mines, shedding excess labor,
strengthening support agencies, and addressing environmental issues. A privatization loan will
support implementation of an agreed privatization program of SOEs in mining,
telecommunications, oil, gas, and -- building on the financial sector reform loan -- banking. It will
also support policy reforms including elimination of excessive government controls, reform of
restrictive labor practices, management strengthening, and further reforms to faster market
competition and private sector development.
1S.      Economic and sector work will focus on privatization of SOEs and development of the
private sector. An institutional artd pricing issues study will provide the basis for preparation of
loans in the energy sector. Several studies will be undertaken in preparation of the privatization
adjustment loan, which will include an examnination of the regulatory policies that govern natural
monopolies and competitive industries, and a review of labor redundancy issues of public
enterprises. A planned study on industrid1 da.egulation will evaluate ways to further improve the
conditions for private sector development. An environmental sector study will review problems of
soil erosion, tropical deforestation, PCB pollution, and water pollution caused by mining.
16.      Alleviating Poverty and Promoting Human Resource Development. The Bank's
primary country assistance objectives in the area of human resources are to assist the Government
in formulating and implementing an effective poverty alleviation strategy, and closely related to
that, promoting human resource development by supporting the Government's efforts to make
available basic social services, particularly for the poor, and improving the impact and cost-
effect.iveness of those programs. The Bank's work in the social sectors will also contribute to the
achievement of the other assistance objectives for Peru. Well-designed, sustainable programs to
alleviate poverty and cushion vulnerable groups should increase the likelihood that the adjustment
program will be maintained. The dynamism and effectiveness of community organizations and
other non-governmental organizations provide scope for decreasing reliance on the public sector
in some areas and encouraging a larger private sector role in the provision of social services. The
impact of the past deterioration of the economy on provisions for operations and maintenance of
social infrastructure means that the requirements for rehabilitation are substaixtial.
17.      In the lending program, the first S&ral Development Project will focus on support to
basic health services and nutrition interventions targeted to the poor in a few regions outside of
Lima where most social programs are now concentrated. It will build on the SAL to support the
Government in formulating a poverty alleviation strategy and identifying reforms in food
assistance programs. It will also include activities to strengthen institutional capacity at the
regional and central levels, as well as to improve the Government's ability to monitor sceial
development and poverty and to use that information more effectively in program design and
evaluation. Ihe anticipated improvements in institutional capacity in the agencies responsible for
health and nutrition, as well as the results of economic and sector work, would lay the base for a
more comprehensive loan to strengthen primary health services in Peru. This loan would address
critical rehabilitation needs and financial issues, including cost recovery, and, if feasible, it would
extend to additional areas the programs and interventions which proved successful under the first
project. The participation of non-governmental organizations is being incorporated in both
projects. A subsequent operation in primary education is also planned to address rehabilitation



needs and quality enhancements, with special attention to the poor through improvements to
programs ard teacher training in rural areas and to consiO-stion of school feeding programs.
18.      The emphasis of sector work is on the fundamentals -- primary health, basic education,
and well-targeted nutrition interventions. Improvements in these sevices, together with a
resumption of broad-based economic growth, are most critical to efforts to reduce poverty in
Peru. The focus will be on identifying ways to broaden access by the poor to these programs, to
enhance quality and to improve cost-effectiveness. In order to reduce the demands on
government agencies and to mobilize resources, mechanisms to enlarge the role of non-
governmental organizations and community participation will be explored. An evaluationr of
public spending in the social sectors wiDl review government priorities in the light of the
contribution to poverty alleviation, the need for continued fiscal ramsterity, and a reduced role for
public agencies. The Bank is also convening, at the Government's request, a series of donor
meetings during 1992 to mobilize and channel external financing for priority programs and
projccts in the social sectors.
19.      Rehabilitating Key Infrastructure. The Bankes strategy in this area is aimed at the
immediate rehabilitation of essential infrastructure in the transport and water sectors, whicia have
suffered from a lack of maintenance due to severe fiscal constraints, as well as the identification
of further rehabilitation needs and specific policy reforms. The goal is to simultaneously promote
sustainable growth through an efficient use of resources within and across sectors, while relieving
the fiscal constraint and identifying public policies for the provision of infrastructure services
which will help alleviate poverty. The Bank wi;l concentrate its rehabilitation efforts in the water
and sanitation, transport, urban, and irrigation sectors.
20.      Initially, lending vwil focUs on high-priority rehabilitation needs. A water sector loan
wfil involve emergency-type rehabiitaMion investments to address critical supply and quality
problems, and health hazards (such as cholera) resulting from poor water qualty. A transport
rehabilitation ?-nan, ftocussing primarily on highways, will finance emergency rebabilitation
investments iu the transport sector. Given fiscal constraints in Peru, these loans will also support
policy and regulatory changes to promote private sector participation and investment (e.g. through
concession arrangements). Over the medium-term, these emergency-type rehabilitation loans will
be supplemented with a municipal development loan to support basic urban infrastructure and a
water sector loan to support further rehabilitation and sectoral reforms. An irrigation
rehabilitation loan will be prepared to address irrigation infrastructure, which has been allowed to
deteriorate es procedures anJ maintenance have been inadequate.
21.      Given the constraints to immediate large-scale lending to Peru, and the institutional
weaknesses in the Peruvian Government, the Bank is seeking an immediate impact through the
provision of policy advice. Sector work related to infrastructure is emphasizing rehabilitation, as
well as institutional and pricing issues, including studies on the irrigation, telecommunications,
transport and water supply, and general issues of policy reform in infrastructure. A study is
underway to examine the scope for deregulation, privatization, and decentralization in urban
services.



- 6-
II. The Economy
Ihe Ticonomy Inherited
22.      During the last two decades Peru developed a legal structure and policy environment
inimical to economic development. A state-led development strategy created a large public
sector, an intricate network of controls, and a largely inefficient state-owned-enterprise sector
operating in virtually every sector of the economy. The tax code became complex and full of
loopholes, with tax administration ineffective and evasion high.
23.      These policies seriously distorted most of the markets in the economy. Job security in
the formal sector was constitutionally protected, and strictly enforced. This, and very high tax
rates on labor, helped shrink the formal sector. The land reform of the early 1970s severely
restricted the marketability of land and its use as collateral. The trade policy of the last three
decades relied on an import-substitution strategy with very high tariffs and many non-tariffs
barriers, depriving the country of the benefits of comparative advantage. Domestic regulatory
policies provided special privileges to incumbents. The financial sector was heavily regulated and
burdened with direa government involvement. During the entire decade of the 1980s the
Government wontrolled interest rates.
24.      President Garcia's diagnosis of chronic inflation and low growth was that Peru was in a
"debt trap": servicing the external debt would accelerate foreign exchange devaluation and
inflation, erode domestic savings, and curtail investment. Consequently, his Administration (1985-
90) put a ceiling on foreign debt service of 10 percent of the value of exports, and later stopped
payments altogether. It instituted widespread foreign-exchange controls on current- and capital-
account, with multiple exchange rates which were subject to frequent change. It increased
minimum wages, expanded directed credit and subsidies, reduced the tax rate on VAT, and
decreased public sector prices. This strategy led to a high and increasing fiscal deficit, financed by
flat money. During the first two years of the Garcia Government this increase in the money
supply had little effect on prices due to an increased demand for Intis generated by the
President's widespread credibility among Peruvians. The initial results were excellent. Economic
activity expanded by 17 percent from 1985 to 1987, the rate of price increase fell, and real Inti
liquidity experienced an unprecedented increase. This "boom", of course proved to be
unsustainable. After 1987 the market lost confidence, the process of monetization sudde*ly
reversed, inflation rebounded, and the economy deteriorated sharply.
25.      In key productive sectors, such as petroleum and mining, the breakdown of
management and finances led to a decline in production. Peru's per capita GNP declined sharply
and unemployment and poverty increased alarmingly. Relations with the international financial
institutions (IFIs), bilateral lenders, and commercial institutions were suspended because of the
accumulation of large arrears. The government applied no effective remedy beyond the reduction
of public investment to historically low levels, with the greatest relative reduction in health and
education. Inflation continued out of control, further eroding tax revenues. In 1989 the price
level was 267 times higher than in 1987, output had contracted by 19 percent, and real wages had
collapsed to under half their 1985 level



- 7 -
26.      Economic mismanagement reached a climax in 1989-90. The decade of the 1980s
witnessed a slow but steady process of dollarization due to the continuing weakness of the
Peruvian Inti. Dollar-denominated deposits in the financial system doubled in the 1980s,
exceeding all Inti denominated liquidity, which in this period was halved in real terms. The
Garcia Administration attempted to end this process by freezing all dollar deposits, and later even
tried to nationalize the banking system. The market reaction was to rely even more on the dollar.
27.      By late July, 1990, prices were already increasing at an annual rate close to 36,010
percent (Table 1.6 of Annex 1). As a result, the country's fiscal base had almost vanished and
most public sector prices and tariffs were approaching zero in real terms. Economic activity was
extremely depressed, and investment even more so: the public sector had virtually abandoned
maintenance of its capital stockl The formal financial sector had shrunk and real domestic
liquidity was down to about one-sixth the level of 1985. Exports were 40 percent below their
1979 level, gross international reserves were low, and Peru's debt moratorium had led to its
isolation from the international community. Violence and terrorism were escalating. Seventy-five
percent of the labor force was either unemployed or employed part-time and per capita incomes
had declined to the levels of 30 years earlier.
The Economic Reforms of the Fuiimori Administration
2X       On assuming office at the end of July 1990, the Fujimori Government launched an
orthodox and sweeping stabilization cum structural reform program. The progress achieved by the
Government in both stabilization and structural reform is imnpressive. During the first stage of
economic reforms, the government took dramatic steps towards achieving macroeconomic
stabilization and rebuilding ties with the intemational 3nancial community. The main components
of the program launched in August, 1990 were:
(a)    Tight controls over public sector wages and salaries, a 3000 percent
increase in fuel prices, and a 1,000 percent increase in the price of
electricity, water, and telephone services.
(b)    The elimination of numerous exemptions on import tariffs and sales
taxes, and the introduction of a temporary tax of 10 percent on exports
and 1 percent on net wealth and insured assets.
(c)    The introduction of a Cash Management Committee to manage Central
Government finances on a cash basis only (without recourse to Central
Bank credit).
(d)    The unification of exchange rates and the establishment of full
convertibility in all current- and most capital-account transactions, with
a managed floating exchange-rate system;
(e)    A tight domestic credit policy;
(f)    A significant reduction in price controls, including the de facto elimina-
tion of ceilings on interest rates.



-8-
These measures aimed at eliminating the main source of hyperinflation: the monetary financing
of the fiscal deficit.
29.      Further fiscal reforms. Foliowing the initial stabilization measures, the Government
took a number of steps, most of them in March, 1991, to reform the tax system, notably the
following.
(a)    The tax regime was simplified. This implied the elimination of
numerous taxes and their substitution by a system based principaly on
five types of taxes: a tax on income of individuals and corporations, a
tax on wealth of firms and individuals, a value added tax, a tax on
z4lective consumption, and tariffs on imports.
(b)    The income tax rate on firms was reduced from 35 to 30 percent and
exemptions were reduced. The tax on net wealth of corporations was
unified at 2 percent and all exemptions eliminated. Both taxes will
incorporate a system for adjustment to inflation beginning in fiscal year
1992. The personal income tax rate was reduced from 45 to 37
percent, and a 1 percent tax levied on the inflation-adjusted value of a
list of assets replaced the previous tax on individuals' net wealth.
Selective consumption tax rates -- excluding gasoline taxes -- were
reduced to three, with a maximum of 50 percent.
(c)    The emergency tax on insured assets, the 10 percent subsidy on
nontraditional exports, and the 10 percent tax on exports (except for
ninerals) were eliminated. However, the emergency tax on checks and
the excise tax on interest wil be temporarily maintained until total tax
revenue collection increases by enough to justify their elimination.
30.      The tax administration system has been subject to several reforms during 1991. The
tax administration office (SUNAT) has been reorganized; it was endowed with a budget of up to
2 percent of total tax revenue collection, and an evaluation of its personnel to permit a careful
selection of new staff is currently in progress. SUNAT is also modernizing its computing facilities
and inrducing reforms in its administrative procedures directed towards simplifying tax controls.
31.      Since August, 1990 public utility prices have been subject to frequent adjustments,
while public sector wages have remained under strict control. Wage indexation in public
enterprises was eliminated and wage increases require Central Government's approval In the
fast four months of 1991, 50,000 civil servants resigned under a program that offered incentives
for voluntary withdrawal.
32       Further structural reforms. A second stage of policy reform began when the initial
economic measures were supported by a series of broad-based structural reforms announced from
March, 1991, onwards. These unprecedented measures were aimed at promoting domestic and
extemal competitiveness and deregulation of economic activity. The major measures are as
follows.



- 9 -
(a)    Monopolies and deregulation. Monopoly rights of 12 public firms
(including grain marketing, imports of fertilizers, gold trading,
reinsurance, etc.) have been abolished.
(b)    Financial sector. A new banking law strengthens prudential regulations
by redefining the capital requirements and credit concentration ratios
of banks, promoting universal banking, and opening commercial
banking to foreign investment. In addition, insurance has been partially
deregulated by freeing premiums and abolishing some goverment
monopolies.
(c)    Labor market. The rigid labor stability laws have been amended to
broaden provisions for layoffs and to establish a better regime to
capitalize the contnbutions towards compensation at the time of
layoff/retirement.
(d)    Ports. With the elimination of the Controlling Commission of
Maritme Labor, which monopolized most loadingunloading activities,
the cost of these services has been substantially reduced.
(e)    Foreign investment. Foreign investors are now permitted to remit
abroad all net profits and royalties. Foreign investment can now enter
under any corporate form or joint venture, and investors are allowed to
purchase stock from residents and to invest in any sector except those
otherwise resemved for nationals.
(f)    Privatization. The Government is in the process of laying out the
strategy to privatize enterprises in the area of mining, fishing, banking,
oil and gas, power, telecommunications, and transport.
(g)    Land reform. Land property rights have been broadened and
strengthened. Corporations (including agrarian cooperatives) can now
legally become private estates. Moreover, land is now freely
transferable and can be used as collateral.
33.      The social progam. On implementing the adjustment program in August, 1990, the
Fujimori Government also began the Social Emergency Program to provide for direct food and
health assistance during the five months from August through December. Although the Program
initially planned to disburse $415 million, it disbursed only $67.7 million of Treasury funds. To
establsh a better focused program for a safety net, the government announced, in August, 1991,
the creation of the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development (FONCODES).
FONCODES is a temporary mechanism for channelling government and donor resources to
labor-intensive projects (mainly the rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure) proposed
by local government agencies, NGOs, and community-based organizations.
34.      In addition, in an effort to set priorities and policies for the social sectors, the
Government prepared a national short-term development plan in April, 1991. With UNICEF
assistance, a Plan of Action for Child Welfare was also prepared and endorsed by the



- 10-
Government in June, 1991. The Plan diagnoses problems and sets goals for health, education,
water and sanitation, nutriton, employment, and the problems of children in different
circumstances.
The 1991-1992 Macroeconomic Stabilization Progam
35.      To consolidate the process of economic stabilization, the Government has agreed to a
Rights Accumulation Program (RAP) with the IMF that identifies several targets for
macroeconomic performance duing the period July 1991-December 1992. The Peruvian
stabilization program, agreed with the IMF, envisages for 1992 an increase in fiscal revenues over
1991 of roughly 2 percent of GDP as a result of better tax administration, a higher VAT rate of
16 percent (up from 14 percent), and simplification of the tax regime. Privatization could also
provide some fiscal relief but the Government correctly acknowledges this to be temporary. Also,
tight monetary policy would allow only for the purchase of international reserves by the Central
Bank. The program envisages that inflation will be reduced steadily to achieve intemational levels
by the end of 1992. Table 1 summarizes the main fiscal indicators.
Table 1: PROJECTED FISCAL ACCOUNTS, 1991 AND 1992
(Percentage of GDP)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  19
NFPS Primary Balance                -5.1  -5.4  -5.1  -1.0   0.4   0.6
Interest Accrued                     2.8   3.8   2.8  4.4   3.5   3.6
NFPS Total Balance                   7.9  -9.2   7.9  -5.4  -3.1  -3.0
Quasi-Fiscal Balance                -5.4  -6.1  -2.8  -1.1  -0.5  -0.3
CPS Total Balance                  -13.3 -15.3 -10.7  _U    1       _
Financing
Extemal                           2.4   4.3   2.9  3.2   3.1   3.3
(interest Arrears)                (1.7)  (3.1)  (2.5) (3.3)  (0.0)  (0.0)
Intemal                           10.8  11.0  7.8  3.3   0.5   0.0
Total                              3    15.3  10.7  IA    L       1
NFPS: non-financial public sector;
CPS: consolidated pubfic sector.
Source: IMF Staff Report for the Article IV Consultation
36.      The program also calls for substantial fiscal improvement over previous yeats. While
the primaty balance of the non-financial public sector showed deficits higher than S percent of
GDP during 1987489, the balance improved to a one-percent deficit in 1990 (the first year of the



- 11 -
Fujimori Governtment) and it is planned to reach a surplus of 0.4 percent for 1991 and 0.6
percent for 1992. The interest payments for those two years, of 3.5 and 3.6 percent of GDP
respectively, are expected to be financed through the primary surpluses plus voluntary external
contributions of 3.1 and 3.3 percent of GDP for 1991 and 1992 respectively. The program, as
currently stated, does not require any domestic financing of the non-financial public sector; in
fact, a small surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP is expected in 1992. In consequence, the only reasons
for money creation during the 1991-92 program relate to either reserve accumulation or tie
financing of the quasi-fiv_.al deficit.
37.       The quasi-fiscal deficit is projected at 0.5 percent of GDP for 1991 and 0.3 percent for
1992. For 1991, the quasi-fiscal deficit is expected to be fuly financed by domestic credit
creation. For 1992, external sources will finance this deficit. The program assumes an average
monthly inflation rate of 5 percent for the second semester of 1991 and a monthly average of 2.7
for 1992. This inflation projection is consistent with the projected increase in the money supply
required to buy foreign-exchange reserves and to service the external debt of the Central Bank
During the first semester of 1991, currency in circulation increased by 30 percent, solely for
purchases of foreign reserves and not for deficit financing. For the second semester of 1991, the
program foresees a 55 percent increase in currency in circulation, of which 60 percent would be
an increase in net domestic credit and the rest purchases of foreign exchange.
Risks and Assessment of the Stabilization Progam
38.       The four risks to Peru's stabilization program are that: (a) the fiscal situation would
remain precarious; (b) a continuing dollarization process would push up money velocity and fuel
inflation; (c) market perceptions of the continuing overvaluation of the Sol would increase
political pressures on govemment officials to take unwarranted steps such as re-introducing capital
controls or making "excessive' (inflationary) purchases of foreign exchange; and (d) a growth in
terrorist activities would undermine business confidence and support for the Government.
39.       The fiscal issue is most immediately worrying. As of September, 1991, the fiscal
adjustment, in spite of gradual improvement, remains precarious. To maintain the budget cash
balance, suppliers are not fully paid, Administrative Regions do not receive fil transfers, foreign
creditors are not kept current, salaries of civil servants are at an all-time low, and net public
investment is practically zero, with little or no maintenance of physical infrastructure. This
extremely low level of expenditure has created social unrest. Fiscal adjustment will be crucial for
the sustainability of the current stabilization effort. The Government expects extra tax revenue
for 1992 of 2 percent of GDP relative to 1991, bringing tax collections to a total of 9.2 percent of
GDP. However, this improvement depends on congressional approval of the tax reform and
improvement in tax admiistration. Nevertheless, this fiscal target is reasonable, gven that
inflation for 1992 is expected to be low, in 1985, by comparison, when annual inflation was 160
percent ts collections were 15 percent of GDP.
40.       TIhe process of dollarization -- that is, currency substitution in favor of the dolar -
continues. It has steadily reduced the demand for Soles and has therefore made it increasingly



- 12-
difficult for the Government to collect the inflation tax.1' The experience for Latin American
countries which have recently undergone dollarization is that successive stabilization efforts were
unable to return domestic cash balances to the pre-shock level, even when a lower inflation path
was realized. It appears that the elimnination of all foreign exchange controls has facilitated Peru's
dollarization process and that the dollar has expanded its traditional store-of-value function in
Peru to include those of unit of account and medium of exchangeY Were dollarization to
continue, it could complicate the stabilization process; but as long as the fiscal accounts achieve a
sustainable equilibrium and the money supply grows within its targets, continued dollarization
should not derail the stabilization process.
41.       The Government has been concerned about the significant real appreciation of the Sol
in 1991.y In response to this concern, the 1991-92 program allows for the purchases of foreign
reserves by the Central BankY The Government's economic team has gained popular support
as Peru has made a successful beginning to the process of reintegration into the international
financial community, and the indicators are that, as interest rates have fallen in recent weeks,
capital inflows have slowed and the real exchange rate has depreciated.
42.       To sum up the stabilization effort, Peru's orthodox "shock' treatment succeeded in
bringing hyperinflation to an abrupt halt: monthly inflation fell from 63 percent in July, 1990, to
6 percent in November, having reached a historical high of 397 percent in August, 1990, the
month in which the public price and tariff adjustments were made (Table 1.6 in Annex 1).
However, by the middle of 1991, inflation had increased to 7-10 percent per month. Inflation fell
steadily from 9 percent in July to 4 percent from October to December. The immediate causes of
this higher inflation were increases in the monetary base by an average of 6-8 percent per month
and increases in the income velocity of money because of the dollarization trend. By August,
1991, Peru's nonetary base was only $0.9 billion and its velocity of circulation almost 40 per year,
1. On July 1, 1991, a new monetary unit, the Nuevo Sol (S/.), was introduced at a conversion factor of
S/. 1.00 = I/m. The so-called Inti Mil16n (I/m.) - equivalent to one million Intis (I/. 1,000,000) - was
instituted on December 16, 1990, as a device, eliminating the last six digits of any value in 1Itis, to simplify
accounting and as a means of transition between the Inti and the Nuevo Sol.
2! Real Sol cash balances (currency plus demand deposits, deflated by the Consumer Prics Index) fel by 36
percent between July, 1990 and July, 1991, in spite of the substantial reduction in inflation that took place.
(CPI inflation was at a monthly rate of 45 percent in the three months May-July 1990, as compared with aoly
8.7 for the same months in 1991). With a floating real exchange regime, a fall in the demand for Soles will lead
to higher vaiability for prces denominaed in Soles t5an for prices in dolars. Nevertheless, by October, 1991,
the fall in the real demand for Soles seems to have levelled off.
h/ According to the available measures, the currency has been appreciatng steadily since 1988. ITe rate at the
beginning of 1991 was one-quarter its 1988 level. The reasons for the long-tern appreciation in the real
exchange rate are not clear; they are attributed by some to the rise of Peru's coca economy (now, by some
estimates, equivalent to at least one-third of official exports).
4/ The net reserves of the Central Bank increased by US$277 willion during May-August, i991, in response to
inreased purcbases-equivalent to 45 percent of the dollar value of Ml as of May, 1991, when the purchases
strted. In spite of the significant purchases of foreign exchange by the Cental Bank, the prchasing power of
the dolla in temns of domestic goods (measured by the CPI) fell 25 percent during the same penod.



- 13 -
implying that even a small monetary financing of the deficit would have a large impact on prices.
43.      The stylized economic cycle. By August, 1991, the rate of growth of the monetary
base explained, by and large, some 75 percent of the inflation experienced since October, 1990,
the rest being due to the persistent dottarization of the economy, which increased the income
velocity of money. The rate of growth of the monetary base was highly variable, but ovall,
monetary policy was generally "tight! in the sense that the monetary base grew at a lower rate
than prices.
44.      The following sequence appears to descnbe Peru's experience of cyclical fluctuations
s of August, 1991: tight monetary policy increases interest rates on dollar and Sol financial
assets. The high real rates attract capital inflows, which in turn appreciate the real exchange rate.
The Central Bank, concerned about the 'low" level of the exchange rate, speeds up its rate of
monetary creation by buying foreign exchange at a faster rate, and this in turn creates inflation.
45.      Meanwhile, inflation reduces the eal level of those prices which are under
government control (gasoline for example). These prices are designed to include a large tax
element, and fiscal revenues therefore deteriorate. Worried about falling revenues, the
government then permits a large and immediate rise in public-sector prices which then causes a
one-time rise in the price level. (This kind of adjustment should have no permanent inflationary
effect.) The Central Bank, concerned about the surge in prices, tries to compensate by turning to
a much "tighter" monetary policy (which involves buying less foreign exchange), thereby further
increasing interest rates and capital inflows. As these inflows appreciate the exchange rate, the
Central Bank loosens its grip, increasing the rate of growth of the money supply to buy foreign
exchange. Tbis completes the inflationary cycle. The cycle has led to a highly volatile monetary
policy which has increased uncertainty in an already uncertain environment.
46.      In sum, Peru's Central Bank has been concerned with the same issues that concern
most Central Banks: inflation, foreign-exchange reserves, interest rates, unemployment, and the
exchange rate. But Peru has been experiencing high inflation in an extremely demonetized
economy. This means that the government has little room for mistakes from inconsistent policy
objectives. Consequently, inconsistent objectives, or shifts among these, are another source of
monetary volatility, contributing to the existing climate of uncertainty. These policy shifts,
coupled with steady dollarization and a weak fiscal situation, help explain the current fragie
macroeconomic situation. The Central Bank should concentrate on targeting the rate of growth
of the monetary base, thus providing a stable and predictable monetary framework This indeed is
the policy that the Government has followed since August, 1991. In addition, the provision of an
efficient fiscal framework is an indispensable complement for a lasting stabilization.
Monitoring the Stabilization Program
47.      The uncertainty related to a precarious tax base, increased doilarization, and real
appreciation of the exchange rate makes it difficult to forecast the evolution of economic vari-
ables. Therefore the Bank will assess the progress of the stabilization program with particular
reference to the performance of a set of broad relevant indicators which are consistent with the
IMF program. For 1992, we shall use the following set of indicators, with their corresponding
values, to evaluate the economy's macroeconomic performance.



- 14-
(a)    Central Government current tax revenue: about 9.0 percent of GDP:
(b)    Primary balance of the non-financial public sector: It least 0.6 percent
of GDP;
(c)    Rate of creation of monetaty base (December,1991, to
December,1992): up to 40 percent
(d)    Stock of other Central BafA monetary liabilities in Soles: u' to 3.1
times monetary base.
Within these broad indicators, the Bank will pay particular attention to measures of fiscal revenue
enhancement and expenditure control which will contribute to efficiency, equity, and the
sustainability of adjustment in the medium term. In monitoring the macroeconomic program, the
Bank will consult regularly with the IMF.
The Agenda for Structural Reforms
48.      The structural reforms that Peru began in 1990 and 1991 are but the beginning of a
long and difficult path. The institutions of public management have to be rebuilt and public
confidence in government restored. This must happen against an alarming backdrop of poverty, a
cholera epidemic, and the security problems that have fed on the country's econom . collapse.
The Government has begun an ambitious program to modernize the economy through policies to
make it more efficient and competitive: the liberalization of agricultural, labor, and financial
markets and trade will continue; the Government is detennined to provide public goods - health,
education, justice, and so on - more efficiently; and a wide-ranging privatization process has been
launched.
49.      Through its program of adjustment lending in FY92, the Bank will be working with
the Government in support of its agenda for structural reform. In addition to the trade reforms
to be supported in this project, a SAL and a financial sector reform loan, both under -reparation,
would support a variety of structural reforms (see paragraphs 10 and 11). This program of
adjustment lending will also contribute to stabilization objectives. Three components of the
SAL -- supporting the non-inflationary financing of public expenditure, reform of tax
administration, and a reduction in public employment - have a direct and obvious impact. But
other components of the lending program support policy reforms with more indirect effects.
(a)    If the prospects for structural reforms and for more efficient, less
corrupt government are credible, people are more likely to pay their
taxes. Thus structural reforms indirecdy increase fiscal revenues.
(b)    The immediate fiscal contnbution of privatization is to provide a usefu,
but only temporary, boost to revenues. Privatization's longer-term
effect is to eliminate the recurrng fiscal burden of state-owned
enterprises and to create a new tax base.
(c)    The net impact of lower import duties combined with the elimination
of many preferential regimes is expected to lead to higher fisal



- 15-
revenues, a trend which has been apparent since the second quarter of
191 (see paragraph 94).
(d)    New labor laws will increase labor's mobility; this in turn will reduce
the bankruptcies resulting from changes in relative prices caused by the
trade and other reforms. This should relieve short-term political
pressures on the stabilization plan.
(e)    The new banking law, by strengthening prudential regulation and
providing for deposit insurance, will help the bankdng system withstand
the recessionary effects of the stabilization.
The Medium-Term Outlook
50.      Six major policy areas are likely to play an important role in determining the medium
term outlook of the economy: (i) trade reform, (ii) fiscal adjustment, (iii) restoration of external
debt serice, (iv) privatization, (v) increased reliance on market allocation mechanisms, and (vi)
currnc convertibility and financial openness. GDP growth is eVpected to remain at 2.5 percent
for 1992 as the economy still has to adjust to the significant shock derived from the tight money
policy required to end the hyperinflation, the hardening of the fiscal budget, and the structural
changes in telative prices. GDP is expected to start recovering in 1993 and its growth rate to rise
gradually to a sustainable level of 4.5 percent by the end of the decade (Table 1.4 of Annex 1).
51.      A successful trade reform will increase the participation of exports and imports in
GDP, once the short run disturbances associated with the end to the hyperinflation are washed
out. We expect exports and imports of goods and non-factor services to gradually increase their
share of GD? from 11 percent in 1990 to 17-18 percent by 1999, with exports rising slightly faster
than imports, resulting in the emergence of a positive balance in the trade account towards the
end of the decade (Table 1.4 of Annex 1).
52.      Two conflicting forces operate on the current account: the fiscal adjustment should
operate towards improving the current account, while the restoration of normal debt service and
the financial hberalization will help generate additional capital inflows to finance a larger deficit.
It is likely that for the rest of this decade the fiscal adjustment will dominate so that the cwu t
account balance will improve as Peru starts generating genuine resources to reduce the rate of
increase in its foreign debt. The most likely scenario assumes the current account balance to
remain in deficit during the decade, although it will be reduced from the high level of -5.2 percent
of GDP reached in 1991 to below four percent by 1997 and thereafter (Table 1.4 of Annex 1).
53.      The simultaneous achievement of GDP growth and current account improvements
depends on a sustained fiscal adjustment and an increase in private savings that would bring
domestic savings up to 26 percent of GDP by 1999 (compared with 19 percent in 1991), a level
consistent with an investment ratio of 25.5 percent and a Trade Surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP.
The increased savings will be sustained by the positive interest rates allowed by the financial
liberalization implemented in mid-1990.



- 16-
III. External Firancln
The External Debt Problem
54.      Peru's arrears grew rapidly from 1983, whei  ;ru adopted a best-effort-to-pay practice
on its foreign debt. Then, in July 1985, the Garcia Go- Anent announced that total foreign debt
payments would be capped at 10 percent of exports. Not until 1988, however, did actual debt
service fall to the 10 percent limit. Initially only payments from public creditors to private foreign
banks were targeted, but in 1987 Peru extended the moratorium to the IFWs and also banned
external debt-service payments by private debtors. In August 1986, Peru was declared ineligible
for IMF lending and was placed on "non-accrual" status by the World Bank one year later. In
early 1989, the IDB also took this last step. Threatened with expulsion, the Garcia Government
resumed current debt servicing to the IMF at the end of August 1989.
55.      The Fujimori government took prompt steps to rebuild Peru's ties with the
international financial community by resuniing current debt service payments to the Bank and the
DB: following discussions with the Bank, payments to cover current obligations were resumed in
mid-October 1990, and to the IDB one month later, thus "freezing the stock of arrears with these
two institutions. Payments to the IFIs average about $41 million per month, equivalent to about
14 percent of the central government's total fiscal revenues. Interruptions in the payment of
current obligations to the Bank and thL IDB, but not the IMF, recurred in March 1991. By mid-
September 1991 current debt service had been resumed to both of these institutions, and all
arrears accumulated since mid-October 1990 paid.
56.      Peru now faces an unprecedented overhang of external debt and arrears. At the end
of 1990, it had almost $22 billion of external debt, with about one-third owed to private creditors,
one-third to Paris-Club members, 10 percent to other official bilateral creditors, and 19 percent to
lFIs (see Table 1.5 in Annex 1). Almost two-thirds of this was in arrears; arrears to the IWU
alone totaled $2.2 billion. The secondary-market discount on commercial-bank claims on Peru is
over 90 percent (down from 95 percent at the time the new Government took office).
The External Financing Plan for 1991 and 1992
57.      Peru's external financing requirements for 1991 and 1992 could total $20.7 billion
(Table 2). Taking account of disbursements already in the pipeline and private capital flows,
external financing requirements are reduced to $18.7 billion. Most of the requirements are for
the financing of arrears; the rest is for public-sector debt-servicing, achieving a targeted level of
reserves, and supporting the non-interest current account deficit.



- 17-
ITa: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
AND POSSIBLE SOURCES OF FINANCING, 1991 AND 1992
(in Millionsof U.S. Dollars)
1991         1992        1991-4'2
Financing Rea_rements
1. Non-Interest Cuffent                                    536           492         1,028
Account Deficit
2. Debt Service Obligations                               2,616         2,398         5,014
3. Total Afrears                                         12,055         1,800        13,855
4. Intease in Gross Reserves                                454          303           757
S. Gross inacing Requirements (1 2+3+4)                  15.661         4.993       20
6. Loan Disbursements in Pipeline                           255          200           455
7. Private Capital Flows                                    908          545          1,453
8. Net Fimancing Requirements                            14,498         4,248        18.746
(5-6-7)                                                ===.
9. Debt Rescheduling and Deferal                         13,598         1,467        15,065
Official Bilateral                                     6,352          769         7,121
Private                                                7,246          698         7,944
10. Additional Disbursements                               900          2,781        3,681
Multilateral                                            654         2,328         2,982
Official Bilatera 1/                                    246          453           699
11. Additional Financing Required                            0             0             0
12. Total Sources of Financing                           14,498         4,248        18,746
(8+9+10)                                               ===           .m_
11 Additional disbursements of budgetazybalance of payments from
Suppott Group members.
SO=: Annex 1, Table 1.2



- 18-
58       To help cover these financing requirements, the donor community has sought to
develop a coordinated plan, which would help reintegrate Peru into the international financial
community. Rescheduling and deferral of debt to official bilateral creditors, and a cortinued
moratorium on debt servicing to private creditors, are expected to cover most financing
requirements. Peru is not expected to receive any type of debt forgiveness in 1991 and 1992.
The balance is expected to be provided by fresh disbursements from the three IFWb, the Latin
American Reserve Fund, and bilateral donors, coordinated through a "Support Group."
59.      Debt rescheduling and deferral. Rescheduling negotiations have already been
successfully completed with the Pans Club of creditors, but negotiations are still underway with
Peru's other bilateral creditors, notably some Latin American and Eastem European countries.
The financing plan incorporates the agreement reached at the Paris Club, and assumes that Peru
will be able to secure similar terms from its other official bilateral creditors. It also assumes Peru
will be unable to service debts to private creditors during 1991-92; these debts will therefore be
rescheduled.
60.      Paris Club Rescheduling. Per rescheduled part of its obligations to the Paris Club of
ereditors on September 17, 1991. The Paris Club awarded the Government exceptional treatment
in the form of unprecedented cashflow relief between October 1, 1991 and December 31, 1992
(the consolidation period). All current maturities due during the consolidation period on debt
contracted before the 1983 Paris Club rescheduling (pre-cutoff debt) and all arrears on pre-cutoff
debt were rescheduled on term; reserved for heavily indebted lower middle income countries All
moratorium interest (interest due during the consolidation period on rescheduled debt) and all
arrears on post-cutoff debt were deferred, the latter contingent on continued performance under
the IMFb RAP. (See the notes to Tables 1.1. to 1.4, in Annex 1, for more detail on the terms of
the Paris-Club rescheduling).
61.      Other Official Bilateral Reschedulings. Peru is seeking debt rescheduling from other
bilateral creditors on comparable terms to that received from the Paris Club of creditors, includig
the reprogramming of debt-for-export agreements with Eastern European creditors and the
restructuring of medium-term obligations to Latin-American creditors that are currently being
serviced through the ALADI payments mechanism.
62.      Existing Medium- and LonL=term Debt to Commercial Banks and Unauaranteed
Suppliers. Although Peru will be unable to service debts to private creditors during 1991 and
1992, the Government will continue discussions with these creditors. Unless an agreement can be
concluded without cash payments, the arrears on these debts will continue to grow during this
period. Following law suits brought by the commercial banks in 1989-90, the new Government
has negotiated an understanding with them under which it renounced recourse to statute-of-
limitations provisions in return for a suspension of the default proceedings that were initiated in
February 1990.
63.      Existing Short-Term  Private Debt. Peru will continue to service short-term trade
credits. The suspension, since 1983, of amortization of short-term working-capital loans will
V/  The World Bank and the IMP would only disburse following clearance of Peru's areas to both
institutions, expectd in December 1992.



- 19-
continue. In addition, arrears that have emerged in recent ears on interest payments on working
capital owed by some public-sector entities are likely to persist.
64.      New disbureMents.The three IPIs and bilateral donors are committed to helping
Peru secure vitally needed external financing. However, their financial assistance is conditional on
Peru's program of stabilization and economic reforms remaining in place. For the financing plan
to be successful Peru must abide by the conditions of the IMFs RAP and the Bank's conditions
for lending to a country with protracted arrears during a specified period of time, expected to end
in December 1992 As long as Peru adheres to the economic reforms in these programs until the
end of the performance period, the Bank and the IF will be in a position to disburse to Peru
upon clearance of arrears to both institutions. In order to clear Peru's arrears, a bridge loan,
presumably from bilateral donors, wil need to be secured at the end of the performance period.
Economic discipline throughout the performance period is also essential to ensure continued
lending by the IDB, and the release of funds pledged by a support group of bilateral creditors.
65.      De International Monetary Fund. In January 1991, the IM   management reached an
agreement in principle with the Government of Peru on an economic program for 1991-92
intended to form the basis for a request for a two-year Rights Accumulation Program (RAP). On
September 12, 1991, the IMF Board, satisfied that Peru's external financing requirements could
be met, and that Peru would maintain its payments on current obligations to the WIi, approved
the RAP. Under the program, if Peru abides by LF performance criteria, and continues to
service current debt to all three IFM, it would accrue rights to future disbursements equivalent to
188 percent of its quota, or SDR624 million, equivalent to Peru's current arrears to the WM.
Rights would be disbursed once arrears to the IMF are cleared.
66.      The World Bank. On May 2, 1991, the World Bank adopted a new 'debt workout"
policy, analogous to the IMFs RAP (see paragraph 3). Under this program, three adjustment
operations (expected to total $900 million) and other investment operations, if ready, would be
presented to the Board for approval, and disbursements would be released upon clearance of
arrears to the Bank.
67.      The Inter-American Development Bank. The three IFIs agreed that Peru's arrears to
the IDB should be cleared first as they were smaller than those to the Bank or the NE. These
arrears were cleared on September 13, 1991 with the help of a bridge loan of $325 million from
the Latin American Reserve Fund (FLAR)Y  With the clearance of its arrears, the IDB has
begun to move ahead with a substantial program in support of Peru's rehabilitaton. On
September 18, 1991 the MDB Board approved a $425 million loan for trade reform and is expected
to approve a $200 million loan for financial sector reform in early 1992. This adjustment lendig
wil be followed up with disbursements on new projects in water/sanitation, and the reactivation of
existing projects in the energy sector. Total disbursements in 1991 and 1992 are expected to be
about $839 million.
I/  FLAR, an institubon of the Andean Pact countries aeated to deal with balane-of-payments probles i
the ron through the provision of medium-term (up to three-to-four-year) fuding, has committed to make
availale to Peru up to t78 million more in financing through the end of 1992.



- 20 -
68.       The Support Group. Following several meetings beginning in April 1991, a Support
Group, led by the U.S. and Japan, was officially formed on June 7, 1991.!' At the time of
approval of the RAP, the IMF estimated that the quick disbursing balance of payments support
required from the Support Group would be as much as $1.3 billion, but following the Paris Club
rescheduling, which was more favorable than initially expected, and an increase in expected
disbursements from the IFIs, additional balance of payments support needed is now* timated at
only $0.7 billion. The Support Group has pledged to provide this amount, in additiu... to $326
million earmarked for project aisistance. With the approval of the IMF RAP, which opened the
way for the recent Paris Club agreement, bilateral donors are now in a position to disburse these
funds.
External Financing Beyond the Performance Period
69.       Peru's net external financing requirements would be between $2.5 billion and $3.5
billion a year between 1993 and 1999 (Table 1.2 in Annex 1). These estimates are based on the
macroeconomic scenario presented in Annex 1. Under this scenario, Peru would sustain non-
interest 'urrent-account deficits through 1996; from 1997 a surplus is projected. In addition,
these estimates are based on public debt-service obligations of between $2.5 to $4 billion a year,
which are drawn from assumptions about expected disbursements. Finally, the estimates depend
on assumptions ab: the volume of private capital flows, and Peru's ability to increase its
reserves. Yearly increases in reserves and positive private capital flows, including direct
investment related to the development of natural resource projects and renewed access to short-
term trade credits, are assumed throughout the period. Because we recognize that many of these
assumptions are based on scant information, we emphasize that this financing scenario is highly
tentative and should be interpreted wth caution.
70.       If this scenario comes aeoout, significant increases in flows from the IPIs and official
bilateral donors are expected to account for most of the necessary fnancing. In addition, it is
assumed that the Government will continue to reschedule private debt service 1, and pre-cutoff-
date debt service to Paris-Club creditors due throughout the period. No debt reduction is
assumed for either official bilateral or private creditors. Under these assumptions, a financing gap
generally within the range of $200 million to $500 million annually would remainY This gap
would diminish by the amount of the IMF program that would have to be in place before a
further Paris Club rescheduling could take place. If Peru's access to IMF resources were to
7 / Bilateal donors who have pledged through the Support Group are: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.
_/ Given that financing gaps are likely to occur, even assuming a 100 percent rollover every year of
commrcial bank debt, it will be difficult for the Government of Peru to enter into an agreement with
commeci banks requwtj a large cash payment. However, discussions have begun which may lead to
negotiations with the commercial banks as early as 1992 and a settlement on at least pant of the Governmen's
d4bt to commercial banks. Indeed, if the actual external financing scenario is more favorable than the one
presented here, and the Govemment were able to service or buy back its private debt, the external financing gp
would reflect the cost of any resources devoted to such transactions.
2/ he projections assume this financing gap would be met on commercial terms.



-21.
average around 50 percent of current ninnual quota a year, the gap could be reduced by up to
$200 million a year. Further reductions in the gap could come about if any variables prove to be
more favorable than assumed, for example if Peru were able to secure new flows on more
concessional terms than in the past, if other exceptional treatment, such as debt reduction, were
offered, or if faster GDP growth were to lead to higher government revenues.
71.      Debt Servicing Capacity. Peru's current lack of creditworthiness originated with the
Garcia Administration's unwillingness to service the government's debt. Peru's creditworthiness is
expected to improve following the repayment of its arrears to the World Bank and IMP in
December 1992 and the earlier resumption of relations with the IDB and the Paris Club of
creditors. The improvement in economic performance, in the coming decade, from a sustained
program of economic reform can be expected to underpin creditworthiness by improving Peru's
capacity to service its external debt.
72.      Under the assumed scenario, the ratio of debt service to exports could fail quickly, to
32 percent by 1999 from around 51 percent in 1993. However, the ratios of debt or interest to
GDP, which better reflect the internal transfer problem, are projected to fail only slightly. Debt
reduction would clearly lead to a greater reduction in the debt burden and contribute to the
future recovery of Peru's creditworthiness. (See Table 1.4 in Annex 1, for a summary of Peru's
debt and debt service indicators).
IV. External Trade: Performance and Polices
73.      For the first decades of this century, Peru's was an open economy exporting a variety
of agricultural and mineral primary products. Industrialization owed much to the demand for
capital goods from the export sector. From 1959, the government adopted import-substitution
policies based on tariff protection and fiscal incentives. A military government in 1968 imposed a
strategy of state-led development: job-protecting legislation and corporate forms of labor relations
were introduced; foreign-exchange controls and credit allocation were intensified, and tanff and
non-tariff protection came to be administered case-by-case. Industry became increasingly
oligopolistic, import-dependent, domestic-market-oriented, and inefficient. In spite of a land
reform, industrial protection and cheap-food policies turned the terms of trade against agriculture.
74.      Following a long period of currency overvaluation that culminated in a balance-of-
payments crisis, a new economic team negotiated with industry a tariff structure sufficiently high
to replace, in 1979, some non-tariff barriers. The government also introduced fiscal incentives to
exports. With a return to civilian government in 1980 the administration deepened the trade-
reforms, reducing the highest tariff from 155 to 60 percent and eliminating most non-tariff
barriers. The reform, however, left many tariff exemptions in place. Expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies in 1980-85, combined with a deteriorating terms of trade, an appreciating real
exchange rate, and the natural disaster of 'El Niflow in 1983, led to large current-account deficits.
Peru found it harder to borrow abroad to finance the deficits, especially after 1982. Rather than
adjust to all these shocks through the exchange rate, the Government chose to adjust through
trade controls: reversal of the 1979-81 trade liberalization began in 1982 and, by 1984, much of
the pre-1979 tariff structure had been restored and many imports once more required licenses
(Table 4.1 of Annex 4).



-22 -
75.      In 1985, the Government of Alan Garcia took to il-conceived, heterodox, expansionist
policies in the hope of invigorating Peru's economy. The policies encouraged imports,
discouraged exports, and, despite the limitations on debt servicing, led to a severe depletion of
reserves. Protection was strengthened: the Instituto de Comercio Exterior (ICE), created in late
1986, was using foreign exchange allocations to control all imports by late 1987. By 1987 multiple
exchange rates had become an additional tool to manage trade. From 1989 import licensing was
cut back and used only for transactions enjoying a preferential exchange rate. Given the premium
that preferential rates enjoyed over the market rate, this meant that the system remained highly
protective and discriminatory: while only ten percent of tariff Unes required import licenses, a
mere five percent of lines protected an estimated 40 percent of manufacturing output. A host of
non-tariff barriers - import monopolies, minimum-domestic-content rules, and bans on second-
hand imports, for instance -- supplemented the official negative lists. Tariff remained high and a
variety of preferential schemes -- allowing half of imports to enter duty-free -- benefitted selected
sectors and firms. To offset the heavy protection offered to import-substituting activities, non-
traditional exports continued to enjoy heavy subsidies.
76.      The most evident effect of protective policies since 1959 has been to close the
economy: in 1961 exports and imports were 21 and 18 percent of GDP; by 1990 they were eight
and seven percent (Figure 2.1 of Annex 2). At the same time, trade policies generated a
distorted set of incentives to the tradable-goods-producing sector. For instance, effective
protection rates to manufacturing were typically high (averaging around 80 percent in early 1990)
and variable (Figure 2.2 of Annex 2). The complexities of import protection and eWport
promotion - raised to an art during the Garcia regime - led to enormous discrimination and
discretionality, not only between sectors but also between firms within sectors. The costs that
firms spent seeking to gain or maintain these privileges were a completely non-productive use of
the economy's resources and were passed on to consumers or taxpayers.
V. Trade PoliS1 Reform
77.      In August, 1990, the Fujimori Government started a trade reform concurrently with a
stabilization policy that involved a float of the currency and a rapid correction of relative prices.
Trade reform was intended to change the productive structure and eliminate economic privileges.
By September, a substantial tariff reform had been achieved (keeping only three rates: 15, 25, and
50 percent) and the import-licensing system had been suspended. A new Minister of Economy
and Fmance, taking office in February, 1991, resumed the liberalization process by introducing
new measures in March, lowering the top tariff from 50 to 25 percent and removing almost all
remaining non-tariff barriers and import monopolies. The trade reform achieved from August,
1990, to March, 1991, has proven as rapid and deep as any other post-war reform, with the
possible exception of Bolivia's. It continues to have the support of a high proportion of Peru's
business community.
X        It is too early to assess the economic impact of trade reform. The economy remains in
recession (although there are some signs of industral recovery) and the demand for imports
remains weak. By the available measures, the currency has been appreciating steadily since 1988
(Figure 2.3 of Annex 2). This tendency continued after July, 1990, and the rate at the begnning
of 1991 was one-quarter its 1988 leveL The reasons for the long-term decline in the real
exchange rate are not clear; they are attributed by some to the rise of Peru's coca economy (now,



- 23 -
by some estimates, equivalent to at least one-third of official exports). In the shorter term, the
value of the (loating) currency has been influenced by the weakness of import demand and by
the capital inflows attracted by the relatively high real interest rates. Nonetheless, since March,
1991, imports have grown, with consumer goods leading the way (Figure 2.4 of Annex 2).
Actual and Planned Reforms
79.      The exchange-rate regime. In August, 1990, one of the first measures of the new
Government was to liberalize the foreign exchange market. The exchange rate was unied, the
Inti floated, and convertibility restored. Convertibility permitted the abolition of the foreign.
exchange controls which had been applied in the multiple-exchange-rate system prevailing until
July, 1990. Additional measures in March, 1991, completed the liberalization by freeing virtually
every capital account transaction. These measures eliminated the requirement for exporters to
surrender their foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank, authorized banks to keep foreign
exchange balances in correspondent accounts abroad, and eliminated a long-standing restriction
on maximum sales of foreign exchange for tourism. The black market m foreign exchange has
disappeared (Figure 2.5 of Annex 2).
80.      Imvort tariffs. The August, 1990, reform reduced the highest rate from 84 to 50
percent, the number of rates from 38 to 22, and applied a minimum tariff of 10 percent to 39
previously duty-free import regimes. In September, a further reform reduced the rates to three:
15 percent for basic foodstuffs, medicine, some intermediate and capital goods, and some foods,
25 percent for other producer goods, and 50 percent for other consumer goods. By this time,
virtually every one of 139 preferential regimes (accounting for half of imports) had been
eliminated. In December, the Government announced a timetable to cut tariffs every six months
to arrive at a flat 15 percent tariff by January, 1995.
81.      In January, 1991, in a departure from the reform process, a five-percent tariff for the
inputs of steel producers was introduced. But in March, the 50 and 25 percent rates were
reduced to 25 and 15 percent. Over 70 percent of all tariff positions (weighted by production)
now have the 15-percent rate (Figure 2.6 of Annex 2). In March the Government also
introduced some protective specific tariffs for selected agricultural imports. These were replaced
in May by a variable-surcharge scheme designed to lead to a landed price no higher than the
previous five-year average c.i.f. price plus a 15-percent tariff. The scheme covers: dried milk,
wheat and wheat products (flour and pasta), corn and sorghum, rice, and sugar.
82.      As a member of the Andean Group (along with Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and
Venezuela), Peru has since 1970 participated in a gradual and halting process of regional trade
integration. Following the strong trade-reform movements in all these countries in recent yeas,
the Group decided to accelerate the process. In December, 1991, the counties decided, in
principle, to apply a common external tariff from January 1, 1992, and to move rapidly to fee
internal trade (which would apply to Peru from July, 1992). The proposed external tariff is low:
initially, there would be no more than five rates, ranging from 0 to 20 percent; from the beginning
of 1994, the top rate would fall to 15 percent, with only three or four rates. The actual tariff
rates for specific products have yet to be negotiated, and these negotiations are likely to prove
difcult given the different national philosophies on the optimal speed of trade reform. If the
Peruvian Government judged these negotiations unlikely to succeed, it would maintain its present
objective of achieving a flat 1'-percent tariff by 1995.



-24 -
83.      In June, 1991, the Government passed aii anti-dumping and anti-subsidy code. The
code permits duties to be levied on imports where dumping or subsidies could be demonstrated to
have caused injury, or the threat of this, to domestic producers. The implementing regulation for
the code has not yet been enacted.
84.      Non-tariff import barriers.1°' By September, 1990, all import prohibitions, historically
the major import barrier, had been suspended. In March, 1991, new rules prohibited, in principle
at least (with a few specific exceptions), a8l forms of discriminatory non-tariff barriers to imports
and exports. Import prohibitions were permanently suspended. Preferential imports are no
longer subject to a test of whether local substitutes are available. Local-content regulations were
eliminated for assembly industries (notably vehicles and consumer durables). Several state
monopolies were eliminated, including import monopolies in rice (ECASA) and wheat, flour, and
sugar (ENCI). In August, state-owned PETROPERU's internal and external trade monopoly in
oil products was terminated. Imports of second-hand good. were completely banned until
November, 1990. From this time, many such imports were allowed, and in March, 1991, second-
hand vehicle and machinery imports were permitted. Today, only clothing, shoes, and laundry
items are banned.
85.      Quality controls on imports have been eliminated; some health controls on agricultural
and pesticide imports have been simplified (and some functions of these controls privatized), but
controls remaining on food, drug, and cosmetic imports apparently continue to offer some
protection to local industry. In some cases -- for example, meat - such controls appear to have
grown in response to the loss of other instruments of protection. The Government is identifying
the discriminatory content of such regulations and tackling them one after the other.
86.       Exrort nolicies. In July, 1990, non-traditional exporters still enjoyed direct export
subsidies, under the CERTEX scheme, ranging from 15 to 30 percent of the fo.b. value of
exports. In 1990, subsidies averaged 13 percent of the total value of non-traditional exports
(Figure 2.7 of Annex 2). By November, the scheme had been abolished, along with a less
important scheme to subsidize interest rates for exporters (FENT). The new Government
substantially increased the access of exporters to concessions on indirect taxes in March, 1991,
liberalizing its temporary admission scheme and introducing a drawback scheme for traditional
exporters. Export restrictions were few, but the most significant of these have been removed and
others have been simplified (notably, health-related controls). Several traditional products
continue to pay export taxes for fiscal reasons; the rate is now 5 percent (except for mining
products where, at present, only copper is being taxed -- at 10 percent). Overall, export taxes are
no longer quantitatively important: in 1990 they averaged 1.3 percent of the value of traditional
exports (Figure 2.8 of Annex 2), falling to an estimated ratio of only 0.3 percent by May, 1991.
87.      Irade institutions. The executive branch of government has the general mandate for
trade policy. Within this branch, the main responsibility falls on the Ministry of Economy and
Fmance, which sets tariffs, is the major arbiter of non-tariff questions, and supervises the
autonomous Customs Superintendency (SUNAD). The Ministry of Industry, Internal Commerce,
Tourism, and Integration (MICITI) has held responsibility for integration (Andean Pact) policy
IQ/ Annex 4 briefly deswrbes Peru's progress in eliminating non-tarff barriers, listing the tange of barriers
existing in August, 1991, and the changes since then.



-2S5-
and, in June, 1991, was given the responsibility for foreign-trade negotiations in general and for
the promotion of exports. Other ministries, notably Agriculture and Health, legislate on standards
which can involve controls on foreign trade.
88.      In August, 1990, the Govemment decided, in principle, to "de-activate" ICE, the focal
point of discretionary import controls and export subsidies. It was not until June, 1991, that this
step was finally achieved: ICE's assets and promotional functions were to be transferred to
MICMTI and most of its staff were to be released. In September, the Government authorized the
creation of a joint public-private association for the commercial promotion of exports, to be
financed largely by the .eading trade associations (see Annex 9 for more details).
89.      In March, 1991, the Government initiated a thorough reform of the Peruvian customs,
having inherited a poorly -organized and -staffed service, with an ill-defined legal framework and
an incoherent body of customs regulations. The inefficiency of SUNAD created obstacles to
trade, reduced fiscal revenues, and gave cuptoms officials a high level of discretion. The
Government decreed a restructuring of the Superintendency and created the framework for a new
stem of customs clearance that would simplify procedures and introduce the principle of bona
fids This prnciple would be made operative through a procedure of "self-assessment' in wbich
importers or exporters (and their representatives) would determine and pay the taxes due with
SUNAD's ex post verification. Tne Government further abolished the state monopoly in customs
warehouses.
90.      In August, 1991, the Government instituted a scheme for pre-shipment inspection, in
the port of origin, by qualifying international firms specializing in this process, of the quantity,
quality, and price of goods to be imported into Peru. Importers would subsequently pay import
duties based on the Certificate of Inspection thus issued, and the Customs Superintendency would
clear goods after verifying the findings of the Certificate. The introduction of this nheme, which
has not yet been put into effect, was not a part of the customs reform process; while it may, in
the shorter term, contribute to the valuation process, it also adds to the bureaucracy and costs of
importing and potentially undermines the role that SUNAD must play in the longer term.
91.      In September, 1991, under powers granted by Congress for promoting private
investment, the executive issued a Legislative Decree elevating to the status of a law many of the
trade reforms that had been carried out in the previous year. The new law guarantees freedom of
internal and external trade and a free, unified foreign-exchange market. It makes the ban on
discrminatory non-tariff barrers and tariff concessions permanent and guarantees the availability
of anti-dumping protection and measures to exempt exports from indirect taxes.
92.      Complementarv policies for trade reform. Trade reform is most effective if factors of
production are free to respond to market forces. The statist policies since the 1960s have
severely restricted factor movements. Indeed, market rigidities were partly to blame for the
failure of the 1979-81 liberalization. While much remains to be done, the Government has
substantially reduced inflexibilities, in particular through March, 1991, measures aimed at
promoting domestic and external competitiveness, private sector development, and deregulation.
These measures were summarized above (paragraph 32).



-26-
Dhe Epeted Impact of rrade Policy Reform
93.       Trade reform can be expected to lead Peru to a more efficient use of its resources
through specialization in productive areas where its comparative advantage is greatest and through
the competitive pressures that freely available imports will exert on domestic producers. The
removal of non-tariff barriers should also enable those resources previously used to acquire
various import permissions to be put to better uses. For the longer term, Peru's greater role in
the international economy could be expected to be seen in larger imports and exports relative to
GDP and a more diversified structure of imports and exports. Beyond this, it is fruitless to try to
predict how trade reform will affect the structure of production.
94.       The fiscal effects of the trade reform may be a little clearer. Lower average import
tariffs, on their own, would reduce revenues, but the elimination of many preferential regimes
would act in the opposite direction, as too, probably, would the reduction in tariff variance and, in
the longer term, the expected faster growth of imports than GDP. Similarly, the elinmination of
export subsidies has removed a drain on the budget. Effective import duties were 13 percent of
import values in 1989 and fell to 9 percent by mid-1990 (Figure 2.9 of Annex 2). Preliminary
estimates suggest that the figure will rise to about 15 percent for 1991. The share of net revenues
from trade taxes (impcrt and export tax collections less export subsidies) in total central-
government revcnues rose from around 11 percent in both 1989 and 1990 to 14 percent in the
first six months of 1991.
95.       Recent research has suggested that countries able to sustain their trade reform can
usually expect to raise their imports after the reform, to raise their exports even faster, and thus
to improve their balance of trade.1' This research also found the effects of trade reform on
unemployment to be surprisingly small, even in rapidly reforming countries: after the reform,
labor was largely reallocated within broad sectors, with far less disruption than might have been
feared. Output tended to accelerate following a trade reform, often immediately for agriculture
and with a more noticeable lag (in the first year) for manufacturing. These results cannot simply
be assumed for Peru, especially given the tenacity that inflation has shown and the continuing
"low" real exchange rate. But the research strongly indicates that trade reform in itself,
particularly when it is radical, does not need to disrupt the economy. This research did not
establish that lower-income groups gained or lost disproportionately from trade reform.
The Agenda for Trade Policy
96.       The apparently high political acceptability of the trade reform so far owes much to the
speed of the reform, its transparency, and its removal of most of the inter-firm dicrmination
which encouraged rent-seeking. The Government is comiritted to maintaining all the major
aspects of the reform so far achieved.
97.       The exchange-rate regime. To maintain the convertibility of the Inti at a single rate
for current-account transactions, the Government will need to pursue appropriate monetary and
fiscal policies.
I1/ See Demetrios Papageorgiou, Armeane M. Choksi, and Michael Michaely, Libealizinf PorMoan Thude in
Develoning Countries: the Lessons of Exnirience, the World Bank, Washington D.C., 1990.



- 27 -
98.      Import taniffs. The Government is committe  o a policy of low tariff protection, but
some uncertainty has been introduced by the prospect of an Andean-Group common external
tariff. Peru's adoption of such a tariff, which envisages rates from 0 to 20 percent, could result in
an increase in effective protection, as well as a fall in tariff revenues, to the extent that this tariff
had the highest rates on locally-produced goods and lowest rates on extra-regional imports.
However, in conformity with the Andean Group's decision-in-principle to create a common
external tariff, the Peruvian Government's proposal is to assign tariff rates according to the
degree of processing incorporated in a product, which in turn would mean only a small degree of
tariff escalation between processing stages. This approach, which would lead to a clustering of
most items around the 10-, 15-, and 20-percent tariff positions, would not increase the current
level of effective protection.
99.      If the Andean Group is unable to come to an agreement enabling implementation of
the common external tariff, the Peruvian Government should take a more direct and simple
approach to avoiding any increase in the level of tariff protection. This would mean not
increasing tariffs on any position or increasing the spread (defined in percentage points) between
positions. The most immediate further tariff change would then be to eliminate the 5-percent
tariff on steel inputs introduced in January, 1991 (and to replace it by the 15-percent miimum
tariff). Otherwise, this exceptional measure would continue to encourage other sectors to push
for their own special rates. Eliminating the 5-percent tariff would smooth the way to the flat 15-
percent tariff that the Government undertook (in December, 1990) to reach by Januaty, 1995.
FmaRy, whatever justification may exist for the agricultural surcharges (price stability for Peruvian
producers and consumers of similar and substitute products), their continuation will encourage the
promotion of other forms of special protection. Therefore, the Government should consider ways
in which it could reduce the scheme (for instance by reducing product coverage) or eliminate it.
100.     Finally, the Government will need to implement the new anti-dumping and anti^
subsidy code in such a way as to ensure that it does not become an instrument for protecting local
producers against legitimate import competition; this would require some revisions to the code, to
include inter alia a procedure for fully documented, public hearings and a mechanism to ensure
that frivolous complaints are discouraged.
101.     Non-tariff import barriers. To avoid the re-introduction of non-tariff barriers to
imports and exports, the Government will need to pay particular attention to the border effects of
existing and new health, safety, and technical regulations. It will need to develop consistent
criteria and corresponding regulations assuring that these regulations do not have the effect of
protecting local productive sectors.
102.      xport policies. Some traditional exporters -- particularly mines that face high fuel
taxes and the mining and other sectors tnat pay export taxes -- still face considerable fiscal
discdmination. While this is not a large distortion overall, the Government should act to remove
these export impediments as soon as possible.
103.     Trade institutions. The successful completion of the customs reform that has been
started is necessary in order that SUNAD become an efficient and impartial organ for the
processing of trade, not only to maxdmize fiscal revenues, but also to secure public credibility in
the new trade system.



- 28 -
104.     Accompanying policies. The process of reform in policies that assure flexibility in
product and factor markets is well underway (paragraph 32), but is nonetheless only in its
beginning stages (and is less advanced than the trade-reform process itself). The consolidation
and extension of these reforms is vital to the success of the trade reform
VI. The Propod loan
Histo[y of the Loan
105.     Following tne discussions that led to Peru's resumption of current-debt servicing to the
Bank in October, 1990, three Bank missions visited Peru in late 1990. One mission prepared a
report analyzing the country's reform and investment needs, particularly in the public sector
(Peru: Sector Reform and Investment Review November, 1990). A second mission assessed the
Govermnent's Social Emergency Program. A third looked at economic stabilization and strucwal
adjustment issues (Peru: Economic and Sector Reforms to Sustain Stabilization and Lay the
Foundations for Development June, 1991, white cover). This last mission proposed a range of
reforms to stabilize the economy and induce reforms in specific areas, including the labor market,
public administration, the fiscal area, and the financial sector. Specific proposals in the area of
foreign trade included: a rapid move to a low and uniform tariff; elimination of export subsidies;
and the creation of a safeguard mechanism to adjudicate claims of import injury that balanced
producer and consumer interests. The mission also proposed a detailed plan for the reform of the
Customs Superintendency based on the principles of simplification, administrative rationality, bona
ris, and devolution of some functions to the private sector.
106.     Following this work on trade and customs, the Govermnent requested further help
from the Bank, and a mission, fuided undtr the joint UNDP-World Bank Trade Expansion
Program, visited Peru in February, 1991. At the further request of the Government, the mission,
before it left Lima, recommended a series of major measures to provide a new impulse to the
reform process which had been started in August, 1990. It proposed: an immediate reduction in
tariffs to leave only three rates, 15, 20, and 25 percent, and the move to a flat 15 percent tariff
within one year; an elimination of controls on second-hand imports of capital goods and motor
vehicles; the permanent elimination of the main non-tariff import barriers and further elimination
and simplification of remaining technical barriers; the extension of the temporary admission
system to cover all exports; the preparation of a plan -o reform customs; the de-activation of ICE,
the institution controlling imports and awarding export subsidies; the careful introduction of anti-
dumping legislation; and the consideration of a scheme to provide internal price stability to
selected agricultural products through a variable specific tariff. The Government has since acted
consistently with the mission's recommendations in all these areas.
Reforms to be Supported under the Loan
107.     We propose a quick-disbursing (sectoral adjustment) loan in support of Peru's current
trade reform program. This reform can be favorably compared to any of the major reforms in
Latin America. For instance, Mexico took more than three years (from 1985) to make tarff- and
non-taiff-reform advances comparable to those Peru achieved in less than eight months. Chile
was two years in removing its non-tariff barriers and six years in arniving at a flat 15-percent tariff



- 29 -
108.     Specifically, the loan would recognize the major trade reform measures taken between
August, 1990, and September, 1991. These measures, descnbed in paragraphs 80-91 i.-d
presented schematically in the Policy Matrix (Annex 3), can be summarized as follows:1
(a)  I&rjff: the simplification of the structure and substantial reduction in the level
and variance of protection; the elimination of most special regimes allowing
discrminatory preferences on the domestic market; the introduction of an anti-
dumping code;
(b)  non-tariff import barriers: the elimination of formally protective barriers,
including prohibitions, minimum-local-content regulations, controls on most
second-hand imports, and state agricultural import monopolies; the reduction or
simplification of some technical/safety/health controls on imports;
(c) export regime- the elimination of fiscal and financial export subsidies; the
improvement of schemes to allow exporters to recuperate indirect taxes;
reduction in non-tariff export barriers;
(d)  trade institutions: the abolition of the Instituto de Comercio Exterior; initial
reforms of the customs function; the passage of a legislative decree raising to the
status of a law many of the trade reforms previously enacted.
109.      The conditions proposed for this loan relate largely to the maintenance of the
current reforms: given the depth of the reform so far, measures for further reform are generally
considered a secondary issue, except insofar as further reform is felt necessary to secure the
current reforms. Thus, in the sectoral conditionality detailed below (paragraph 125), the emphasis
is on 'conditions preventing policy reversal", rather than 'conditions for further reforms".
The Loan
110.      A loan is proposed for $300 million under conditions consistent with the Bank's new
policy of "Additional Support for Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears0
(paragraph 3 above). Under this policy, the Board's approval would entitle Peru to the immediate
disbursement of the whole loan amount after loan signing and effectiveness. These would take
place at the end of the performance period upon satisfactory implementation of the trade policy
reform program, the economic stabilization progam, and the external financing plan (including
clearance of all Bank arrears). The performance perod, which started with the initial reforms of
August 8, 1990, would terminate in December, 1992, concurrently with the termination of the
IMFs rights accumulation program. We do not propose any particular use of local counterpart
funds. The borrower would be the Government of Peru; the implementing agency would be the
Ministry of Economy and Fnance.
1I P! ated efonns, not considered here, are the floaing of the currency (paragraph 79) nd various m_aus
to increase factor mobility and reduce costs (pawgaph 92). These reforms will be conidered under the
fbaihoming SAL.



- 30 -
111.      Given that, under the workout program, effectiveness will not occur for at least ten
months after Board presentation, the standard grace period will be calculated from the time of
loan signature, rather than Board presentation.
Procurement. Disbursement. Audit. and Administration
112.      The proposed loan would be used in its entirety to finance 100 percent of the c iL
costs of eligible public and private sector imports. Eligible imports would be all goods and
services except those normally excluded under Bank policy-based lending, such as alcohol,
tobacco, and armaments, as well as luxury, environmentally hazardous, or other goods specifically
prohibited in a negative list, and goods financed by other Bank loans or loans from official multi-
or bilateral sources. The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1993.
113.      The proposed loan faces two particular circumstances affecting procurement and
disbursement. First, given the Bank's total proposed adjustment lending program for FY92 - an
expected sum of $900 million, all of it required to rapidly disburse in December, 1992 - and the
expected level of IDB adjustment lending and bilateral aid for the same years ($700 million and
$1,300 million respectively), the amount of imports which are to be subject to Bank disbursement
and procurement procedures will be substantial in relation to overall eligible Peruvian imports
(total imports are currently almost $3 billion per annum). -
114.      Second, effectiveness will fall well behind the policy reform process that the loan
supports: the economic reform process began on August 8, 1990 (with the trade-reform process
being substantively completed by April, 1991), Board presentation is expected in early 1992, but
the loan will not be signed before the end of 1992, that is, 28 months after the beginning of
economic reforms. Under these circumstances, retroactive financing of eligible imports for the
whole of the loan amount is recommended from August 8, 1990.
115.      A Country Procurement Assessment Report prepared by the Bank on September 9,
1991 noted that the laws and decrees governing the procurement procedures followed by both
public and private sector importers were in broad conformity with the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. In addition, the annual budget law provides that goods and works financed by
international financial institutions will be procured in accordance with the requirements of these
institutions.
116.      Trade policy reform since August, 1990 -- the wholesale reduction of tariff and non-
tariff barriers, the elimination of fiscal privileges, the removal of controls on foreign-exchange
transactions, and the beginning of customs reforms - has immeasurably strengthened the
competitive environment in which private purchasing decisions are made.
117.      In view of the above-mentioned reforms, the following procurement procedures
would apply:
(a) Contracts for the procurement of imports made by public and private importers
valued at or exceeding $5.0 million would be procured under simplified ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Imports of petroleum
products and commodities such as wheat, corn, sugar, etc., would be purchased under
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. In addition, direct contracting would



- 31 -
be acceptable if it is in accordance with the requirements of paragraph 3,5 of the
Procurement Guidelines. Contracts below $5,000 would not be eligible for Bank
financing.
(b) Public sector imports valued at below $5.0 million and above $5,000 would be
procured in accordance with local norms which have been assessed as acceptable to
the Bank in the Country Procurement Assessment Report of September, 1991.
(c) Import contracts by private importers below $5.0 million and above $5,000 would be
awarded in accordance with established commercial practices, which are acceptable to
the Bant These practices generally consist of inviting more than one quotation,
except for importers of small amounts of consumer goods, who generally buy from
traditional sources using direct negotiation.
118.      Disbursements for contracts under $5.0 million would be made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) for which the relevant procurement documentation would be kept locally for
supervision by the Bank staff in the field and for auditors whose terms of reference for auditing
would be acceptable to the Bank
119.      The Ministry of Economy and Finance would administer the loan and be responsible
for submitting the relevant documentation for disbursement. To fulfill this task, the Ministry has
established a Coordinating Unit to ensure compliance with loan conditions, prepare disbursement
requests, supervse consultancies, and flfill reporting requirements to the Bank.
120.      To assist in the preparation of disbursement requests, the Ministry and the Central
Bank have, in conjunction with the Customs Administration, created a Special Procurement Unit
responsible for the collection of relevant procurement documentation, ensuring that only eligible
and correctly procured imports are included in withdrawal applications. This documentation
,would be retained for review, as required, by the Bank and the project auditors.
Technical Assistance
121.      The technical assistance necessary to support Peruvian trade reforms wili be provided
outside this project The Customs Superintendency urgently requires technical assistance for its
restructuring, and the IDB is providing a Technical Cooperation component of the trade policy
loan it is financing in cooperation with the Bank. In addition, part of a Bank-administered
Japanese technical assistance grant to the Peruvian Govenment, which is in the final stages of
discussion, will be used to support the trade reform. This grant will be used to: help the Ministry
of Economy and Finance undenake various studies to monitor the trade reforms and to fulfil
project conditionalities (studies on reforms in the anti-Jumping code, the agricultural surcharge
scheme, and the admuistration of non-tariff barriers); organize trade-policy seminars and training;
develop commercial export support programs in the Ministry of Industry, and strengthen the
Coordinating Unit (in handling disbursements, for instance). (See Annex 9 for details of the
technical assistance to be offered through the Japanese grant.)



- 32 -
Letter of Development Policy
122.      The basis for this loan is provided by a Letter of Development Policy (Annex 6).
Given the context of Peru's workout, which envisages several adjustment projects and a
performance period that separates Board presentation from loan signature, this Letter goes
beyond the normal scope of a letter of sector policy and constitutes the understanding which the
Government and the Bank will have at the time of Board presentation on the conditions and
criteria according to which the agreement for the proposed loan can be later signed and made
Eective.W  The Letter:
(a) sets out the Government's medium-term macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment
program;
(b) descnrbes the external financing plan for 1991 and 1992;
(c) sets out the process and timetable by which the loan is expected to be signed and
become effective;
(d) describes the evolution, objectives, and guidelines of trade policy, setting out the
precise sectoral (trade-policy) conditions the Government undertakes to fulfill during
the performance period and describing what further actions are intended in the
longer term; and
(e) indicates how the Government will report to the Bank during the performance
period.
Conditions
123.      Conditions of Board presentation. Consistent with the Bank's new policy on
Additional Support for Workout Programs, the following Board presentation conditions have eon
met,
(a)   a macroeconomic stabilization proram in place and agreed by the If and the
Bank, as described in paragraphs 35 to 37 above; this program would provide
the common framework for this loan and the two subsequent adjustment loans
proposed for Peru's workout; the Bank woul follow quantitative indicators of
major macroeconomic variables for 1992 (paragraph 47 above): within these
broad indicators, the Bank would pay particular attention, in monitoring the
program, to measures of fiscal revenue enhancement and expenditure control
which will contrbute to efficiency, equity, and the sustainability of adjustment
in the medium term;
3f/ it is envisaged that the subsequent two adjustment opeions in the debt workout would have a simil
Lter of Developmet Policy, with common contents for the parts (a), (b), and (c) described below, excet
whr updating or changed cicumstces required specific, agreed changes.



- 33 -
(b)   an external financing plan. agreed among the international financial institutions
and the Support Group, which would, as descnrbed in paragraphs 57 to 68
above, provide for full clearance of arrears to the Bank and the normalization
of Peru's relations with the IMF and the IDB;
(c)   agreement on sectoral conditions as outlined in paragraphs 125-126 below; and
(d)   Peru remaining current on its servicing of debt to the Bank currently faling
due (other than debt covered under (b) above), on the terms already agreed
with the Government.
124.     Conditions of loan signing and effectiveness. Consistent with the Bank's new policy
on Additional Support for Workout Programs, loan signing and effectiveness conditions would be
as follows:
(a)   signing:
(i)    prior clearance of arrears to the Bank;
(ii)   compliance, during the performance period, with the IMF and
Bank-supported program of macroeconomic stabilization
(paragraph 123(a) above), with particular reference to the Bank's
quantitative indicators;
(iii)   the continued viability of an external financing plan (paragraph
123(b) above);
(iv)   compliance, during the performance period, with the Bank's
sectoral conditionality as under paragraph 123(c);
(b)   effectiveness:
(i)    taking of all governmental actions required to authorize (or, if
necessary, to ratify) signing of the loan agreement; and,
(ii)   if a lapse of time occurred between signing and these actions,
continued satisfactory implementation of the trade reform and
macroeconomic stabilization programs and the extetnal financing
plan, in accordance with the provisions of the Letter of
Development Policy.
125.     Proposed sectoral conditions. The Government has agreed to the following conditions
(for greater details, see the Policy Matrix, Annex 3, and Appendix A to the Letter of
Development Policy, Annex 6).
A.   Conditions preventing policy reversal. These will be monitorable conditions,
based on the policies in force on July 5, 1991. (The policies then in force are:
described in paragraphs 79 to 91 above; summarized in the third column of the



- 34 -
Policy Matrix (Annex 3); and detailed in paragraphs l(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
(h), and (i) of Appendix A of the Letter of Development Policy, Annex 6.)
Reversal of specific policies would be defined as follows:
(i)       the reintroduction of foreigr-exchange controls on imports;
(ii)      a rise in the level and variance of tariff Drmtection (whether
resulting from changes in specific rates or from tariff
surcharges);-II
(iii)      the reintroduction of any tariff preference for the domestic market
(except under international trade agreements);
(Ov)       extension of coverage of the agricultural surcharge scheme;
(v)       extension of free trade zones with the effect of selling, free of
import taxes, imported goods on the domestic market;
(vOi)       eintroduction of banned non-tariff barriers, including the use of
reference prices for protective purposes;
(vii)      raising of export-duty rates or extension to new products or
reintroduction of fiscal or financial subsidies to exports;
(viii)      survival of any of the functions related to import or export controls
that the now-extinct ICE fulfilled.
B. Conditions for further reforms. (These conditions are summarized in the fourth
column of the Policy Matrix, Annex 3, and detailed in Appendix A of the Letter of
Development Policy, Annex 6.)W
(ix)       agreement to replace, by March, 1992, the 5-percent rate on steel
innuts by a 15-percnt rate, unless the Goverment and the Bank
agree that a new common external tariff is likely to be implemented
in accordance with the recent decision-in-principle of the Andean
Group;
(x)       agreement, by March, 1992, on a terms of reference for a study to
evaluate the  icultural surcharge scheme agreement by June,
1992, on guidelines for implementing the study's recommendations;
I  If Peru implements a common extenul tariff which is in accordane with the tariff criteria establishd in
the recent denisin-in-priciple of the Andean Group of countres, this condition would no longer apply.
,I/ Tle March, June, and September, 1991, dates for compleding various actions, notioned in the rst of this
paragraph, ae meant to be target dates, rather than precise dates.



-35 -
and enactment, by September, 1992, of the reforms in line with the
agreed guidelines;
(xi)      carry out, under terms of reference which have been agreed with
the Bank, a study to develop consistent criteria, and propose
corresponding regulations, which minimize the protective features
(Le. those that discriminate in favor of domestic producers) of
existing (and any new) health. ohvtsanita. and technical
regulations; agreement, by March, 1992, on the guidelines and
principles to be applied in implementing the study's finmdgs; and
enactment, by June, 1992, of the reforms in line with the agreed
guidelines;
(xdi)     carry out, under terms of reference which have been agreed with
the Bank, a study to propose amendments to the Anfiumpgg
cod so that it does not become an instrument for protection
against legitimate import competition and it operates in an
transparent manner; agreement to enact, by March, 1992,
amendments to the code in line with the studys recommendations.
(xiii)    implement the agreed Action Plan to restructure the Customs
Su2rtendency (see summary in Annex 5); compliance with the
required actions under the three phases of this Plan, by Board
presentation (first phase), b5 March, 1992 (second phase), and by
June, 1992 (third phase).
126.     In the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 6), the Government commits itself to the
specific sectoral measures outlined in paragraph 125 above. It also emphasizes its commitment to
maintaining current exchange-rate and trade policies as the basis for free trade and full private-
sector participation in all economic activities. The Government intends to pass legislation
ensurng that non-tariff technical and health barriers to imports are non-d  rminatory. It wil
guarantee that protection against unfair competition from imports is not excessive. It will achieve
a uniform 15-percent import tariff by January, 1995, (unless a common external tariff has been
implemented in accordance wMth the recent decision-in-pnnciple of the Andean Group) and
eliminate export taxes and discriminatory effects of indirect taxation when the fiscal situation
permits.
Monitorinj and Repor
127.     Ihe Bank and the Government have ageed on the information which the latter will
provide during and after the performance period on developments in macroeconomic policy and
perormance, the external financing plan, trade poliy and performance, and the implementation
of the restructuring of Customs. The information is listed in Appendix B to the Letter of
Development Policy, Annex 6.
12&      Consitnt with the Bank's new policy for Workout Programs, the management will
submit each quarter to the Board a report on Peru's complince with the requirements of this and
the other adjustment loans in the workout. The report would assess the likelihood of a successl



-36-
workout by December, 1992, and recommend as necessary any modifications to the conditionality
or administration of the loan. Specifically, the report would cover the following topics.
(a)      Peru's progress in fulfiling the obiectives of the macroeconomic
stabilization program with particular reference to the risks that have been
identified (paragraphs 39-46).
(b)      Progress in fulfilling the conditions of the external financing plan i-cluding
Peru's servicing of current payments due to the Bank; and any related
developments (for example, negotiations with commercial banks).
(c)      Progress in fulfilling the sectoral conditions of the workout loans, in the
context of overall sectoral performance and policy and other developments
affecting fulfillment c! sectoral conditions and sectoral performance;
Coogeraion with the 1DB
129.     On September 18, IDB's Board approved a fast-isbursing $425 million Trade Sector
Loan, $325 million to be disbursed on effectiveness, with $50 million for each of a second and
third tranche. The loan covers five areas: (i) trade policy, (ii) customs reform; (iii) labor-market
reform; (iv) private-sector development in agricultural marketing; and (v) the social compensation
fund. IlB and the Bank have developed their analysis and sectoral conditionality on trade and
customs reform in close cooperation, in partcular through concurrent pre-appraisal missions in
June, 1991A  In these two areas conditions in the two loans are virtually the same.
130.     As a complement to its loan, IDB's Board also approved a $4.9 million reimbursable
Technical Cooperation component, of which $2.3 m illion is for funding the technical assistance for
Customs restructuring.
Project Benefits
131.     The likely direct benefits of the trade reform supported by this loan - the expected
gains in economic efficiency - have been described elsewhere in this report (paragraphs 93 to 95)*
The project will also realize benefits through its contnbution to Peru's workout and reintegration
into the international financial community. In addition to providing some fresh external funds to
Peru between now and the end of 1992, the workout will open the door to resumption of a
normal relationship with the Bank, involving the financial and know-how transfers of investment
lending, economic and sector work, and technical assistance. Ihe workout wil allow Peru to
normalize relations with other multi- and bilateral donors even before the Bank itself disburses
kPwiec Risks
132.     The Government is strongly committed to trade reform, as too - at the moment at
least - is a majority in the business sector. But the ability of the trade reform to survive and the
1I6/ Me odter tue ar  will be covered by the B=ak in the SAL, and the Bank contius to work closely wi
the IDB in these anras.



- 37 -
opportunity for further reforms will depend on several factors. First, the survival of the reform is
inseparable from the prospects for economic stabilization. Second, the real exchange rate remains
at a substantially appreciated level, and the Government has been under great pressure, especially
from exporters, to reverse its policy and intervene heavily in the foreign exchange market. But
governments are relatively powerless to exert a direct effect, short of running a budget surplus. A
third source of pressure to reverse reforms can be expected to come both from businessmen with
vested interests in a strategy of protected import substitution and from those within the
government who have lost power as discreonary import controls have been dismantled. Fourth,
distortions elsewhere in the economy, although they have been reduced by measures taken by the
new Government, continue to inhibit a flexible response from producers. Fifth, the political
uncertainty generated by a still-weak government capacity and the unstable security situation will
continue to add risks to any reform movement in Peru. Sixth, there is an external risk: the
internal reform process depends substantiaDly on the coordinated support of the international
financial community; this risk has diminished recently as a result of the progress made in
implementing the external financing plan. 'Te final risk is that social unrest could delay or arrest
the reform process: the Bank's second planned operation, the SAL, proposes to address this risk
(see paragraph 135 below).
133.     Whatever the risks that can be enumerated, the trade reform process must be seen as
part of a larger program of stabilization and adjustment. This larger program is not itself risk-
free, but it still has strong political support; it is evident that, in Peru's straitened fiscal
circumstances, the Government has few choices.
The Social Impact
134.     The policy mistakes that led up to the stabilization and economic reforms of 1990 also
created enormous social problems, and the new Government, facing a fiscal problem of enormous
proportions, has had limited means to address these problems. It is not clear that trade-policy
retorm, in itself, contributes to these problems, but in this case any effects of trade reform are
washed over by the broader stabilization and structural adjustment program of which it is part.
135.     To address Peru's chronic poverty problem and to mitigate a recessive impact of the
stabilization/adjustment program on the living standards of some of the poorest groups, the
structural adjustment loan (the Bank's second planned adjustment operation) calls for concerted
action to define and implement well-focused social measures designed to meet the most urgent
needs of the poorest social groups. These measures would include: (a) adoption of an explicit
poverty alleviation strategy; (b) elaboration of operational plans in basic health and education
with priority project profiles; (c) elaboration of a national nutrition policy based on a review of
existing food assistance pr.ograms; and (d) the initial implementation of this policy.
136.     The Bank plans to assist the Government in implementing the above measures
through: a Japanese technical assistance grant, which wil be used to support the organization of
FONCODES and help develop priority social project profiles; preparation of a poverty report by
June, 199Z, outlining a poverty reduction strategy, and program and financial options; and a series,
planned for the coming months, of donor meetings for the social sectors to present the poverty
alleviation strategy and mobilize aeternal financing for priority programs and projects. The IDB
and UNDP will also provide technical assistance to set up the adminstrative structure and



-38-
operational procedures of FONCODES. Action in this area is a high priority and is supported by
a component (consistent with our views) under the IDB's Trade Reform Loan.
VII Recommendation
137.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 10, 1992



TABLE 1.1   VWU :  Batance of Payments Projectiens t Current Account Excluding
----            Interest Pa_mnts, 1990-1999.
(S  ml itt ilm)
............ ......................_,,............._.   -.-......................................
Projected
~~~~~~~~~.......... -----------------------------_-_._------,-_.
1990      1991        1992       1993        1994      1995       196        199?       1998        1999
.................... ....................................................................................................................
Nsrchandlse Trade Ac cnt                        448        (25)         44        129        267        458        669        892      1.149       1,438
Exports of Goods                             3,333    3,240        3,758      4,091      4.578      5,252      6,015      6,863      7,83        8.975
ts dw tiami                           745       725          840        91S     1.024      1.174       1.345      1,53S      1.754       24,07
01tzer' tradJt1on                          t,"6U     1.602       1,858      2,023      2,264      2,597      2,974      3,394      3,8?8       4,438
llen Traditional                             940       914       1,060      1,154      1,291      1,481      1,696      1,935      2,211       2,531
1s4orts of Goods                            (2,885)  (3,265)    (3,714)   (3,963)   (4,312)   (4,794)   (5,346)   (S,9n)   (6,694)    (7,537)
*FS Balance                                     (610)    (694)         (769)      (798)      (833)      (882)      (939)   (1,008)   (1.089)    (1.186)
Exports of UFS                                 972       901       1,045      1,138      1,273    1t461         1,673      1,909     2,181        2,496
laports of UFS                              (1,582)  (1,595)    (1,814)   (1,936)   M2M106)   (2,342)   (2,611)   (2,917)   (3.270)    (3,682)
Resource Balne                                  (162)    (719)         (725)      (670)      (566)      (424)      (269)      (116)        60         252
................                               ............          .......... .....  ....... .....  ....... -----  ....... -----      ....... .. ........... ,.... .._... _.,-
fator ttce                                       (120)       (77)        (36)       (65)       (74)       (98)      (11S)      (128)      (307)       (446)
Fector Receipts Net                              74       105          127        142        160        176        194        204        211         218
Private B Short-Term Interests  aJ             (146)    (124)         (120)      (119)      (116)      (121)      (118)      (124)      (130)       (138)                       0
Other Factor Pa ments                           (48)      (S8)         (43)       (88)      (118)      (153)      (191)      (208)       388)       (S26)
Not Current Transfers                             247       259          269        270        275        285        296        307        319         331
lln-Interest CurrenttAccmt  a_                      (35)    (536)        (492)      (4S)       (366)      (236)       (88)        63         n          137
... ....... .. .. V    .. ..... .. ... .. .. ... .. ..... .. .. ... ..... ....... .... ... .. .. ... .... ... .. ..... .. .. ..... ..
eJ Does rot lncludc' Interest on ptMilc debt.
PIs



Teble 1.2 - PERU s Batance of Payments Projections : financing Requaremunts and
Possible Sources of Financing, 1990-1999
(USS miltions)
.................................... *,,................. .................... .......................................... ............... ................................................. .................................... 
1990        1991        1992        1993       1994        1995        1996       199?         1998        1999
.................. .................................... _.. ......._,. .. ..... ...... ,..................... ............................. .................................................. ..... .......... .............
Financ-in Requiremsnts
.................. .................... ..
1. Non-tnterest Current Account Deficit                           35          536        492         465         366        236          88         (63)        (72)       (137)
2. Pub41t Sector Debt Service
Obligatfons :                                              2,619        2,616       2,398      2,494       2,635       2,72?      2,890       3,192        3,406      3,642
buAtilaterat                                              650          513         530        625         688        708         749         889         933         987
Bilateral                                               1,015        1,208      1,170       1.128       1,170      1,193       1,252      1,341        1,434       1,533
Private                                                   954          895        698         741          m         826         89         962        1,039       1,122
3. Arrears to be Settled in
Current Year                                                    0      12,055       1,800           0          0           0           0          0            0           0
Multilateral                                                0          379      1,800           0           0           0          0           0            0          0
Bilateral                                                   0        5,322           0          0           0           0          0           0            0          0
Private                                                     0        6,354           0          0           0           0          0           0            0          0
4. Change In Gross Reserves                                      290          454        303         223         225        200         198         100         100         122
5. Gross Finamcing Requdrements (1+2.3+4)                     2,944       15,661       4,993      3,183       3.225       3.163      3,176       3,229        3,434      3,627
.  .....   ........ .....           ....... .....          ....... .....          ..... .. .....           ...... .............. .. .. ....... 
6. Pipeline Loan Disbursements                                   24S          255        200          80          68         51           3           0           0           0
7. Private Capital Flews                                         367         908         545         509        654         72          844        731          186         291
8. Increase inrrears                                          2,144             0          0           0           0          0           0           0           0           0
9. Other Lfabilities and Adjust.                                 188            0          0           0           0          0           0           0           0           0
10. FInancing Requfrements
(S-6-7-8-9)                                                  (0)      .4,498      4,248       2.594      2,503       2,385       2,329      2,498        3,248       3,336
==          s ac=      am= _ :"=_ n 
Sources of Fifancing
.....................
11. Debt Resdcedutis wnd Deferal                                   0      13.598       1,467         743        798         736        785         854        1,041      1,296
Bilateral                                                   0       6,352         769           2         21         (90)      (102)       (108)           2         174
Private                                                     0       7,246         698         741        m           826        887         962        1,039      1,122
12. Additional Disbursements                                       0         900       2,781      1,337       1,468       1.373      1,324       1,549        1,612      1,675
Multitaterat                                                0         654       2,328         502        624         505        449         665          692         719
FUAR                                                   0          170        200           0           0          0           0          0            0           0
TORD  ID, nd IMF                                       0          484      2,128         502        624         S05        449         665          692         719
Bilaterai                                                   0         246         4S3         835        844         868        875         884          920        956
13. Additional Financing Required                                 (0)         A()          0        514         237         276        220          95          595        365             'II
14. Totat Sourees of Financing                                    (0)    14,498       4,248       2.594       2,503      2,385       2,329      2.498        3,248       3,336
(11.12+13)                                                 =u=    v==  _  =inu                    I      Uu   =    a===        u==         I#          3           u=u=
........................................................................................................................................................



Tabte 1.3 - PEII: Iatllat Accounts Projectians, 1990*1999.
.......... .................. _i**.......................................................................................................................... 
Prel.                                 ProJected
1990     1Wt1        1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998       1999
In Cmtmnt Prices (Niltlen 1919 Sles)
GDP                                '         3.264    3.356       3,439     3,543      3.649      3,758     .S98       4,026     4,187       4.376
Total Cmnsuiptiln                            2.429    2,537       2,547      2,583     2,64S      2,707     2,779      2,852     2.943       3,053
Private Consuipion                         2.151    2.271       2,264     2,295      2,33S      2,390     2,435      2,496     2.576      2,670
Pubtle Consitale                             278      266         283        288       310        317       344        354       367         383
Total Inwestent                                627      6S0         658       667        661        657       675       698        725         760
ol  roes flied tIv.                            594      618         652        664       6S8        654       672        694       722          56
Private Inwestmmnt                      527      543         557       520        45S       404        414       429        446        469
Puitc I.nstmnt                           67       75          94       144        202       250        258       266        275        287
Chmna In Stocks                             33       31           6          3         3          3         3         4          4           4
Gross Damotic Sawins                           835       819        892        960     1,004      1,051     1,111      1,174     1,244       1,323
Exports                                        811      768         909      1.011     1,110      1,216     1,319      1.426     1,545       1,676
Iiports                                        603      599         675       71         76        822          3       950    1t,026       1,113
................... .............................................   _...................................
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_



Tabe 1.4 - PERU : Projections of Key fEcmc irdicators, 190-1999.
,.,............................ .._......,. ,,.... ,.............................. ...............................................................__....
Pret. ------------------------------------- Projected                        -
199      1991   .  1           1993      1994      1995       1996       997     `1998        1999
6rtbh Rates (prcent):
.......................
MP                                          -4.9       2.8        2.5        3.0       3.0       3.0       3.5        3.5       4.0         4.5
MP per copito                               -7.4       0.3        0.1       0.6        0.6       0.7        1.2       1.3       1.8         2.3
aT                                          -5.0    -1.9          1.9        2.0       2.8       3.0       3.9        3.9       4.1         4.8
on  per cata-                               -7.5      -4.4       -0.5       -0.4       0.4       0.7        1.6       1.7       1.9         2.6
Cors"tian                                   -4.1       4.4        0.4        1.4       2.4       2.4        2.6       2.6       2.7         2.9
Curumptien per capita                       -6.6       1.9       -2.0       -1.0       0.0       0.1        0.3       0.4       0.5         0.7
Exports OS (Uss)                            -6.3      -3.8       16.0        8.9      11.9      14.7       14.5      14.1      14.3        14.4
Exports  ePS (Ctanstt ust)                  -5.0      -S.4       18.5       11.2       9.8       9.6        B.5       8.1       8.3         8.5
Exports of Goods (Constant Ust)             -9.2      -2.3       19.4       11.8       9.8       9.4       8.0        7.6       7.8        8.0
Exots VS                                    -6.6    -15.4        14.9       8.5        9.8      10.6       10.3       9.9      10.1        10.3
Isports GNFS (USS)                          25.9      8.8        13.7       6.7        8.8      11.2      11.5       11.7      12.1       12.6
iqport GlfS (Comstant  SO)                  12.4     -0.7        12.7       6.4       6.8        7.2       7.4        7.6       8.0        8.S
ltowts of goods  (USS)                      32.2     13.2        13.7       6.7        8.8      11.2      1.         11.7      12.1       12.6
1apwrt of goods  (Constent USS)             24.4      3.3        12.7       6.4        6.8       7.2       7.4        7.6       8.0        8.S
Debt Indicators (percent) :
...................... ......................... .
DebtExo    GlrS                            502.0    S60.8       524.5     510.3      484.3    445.0      407.5      374.3     344.S       317.8
58.2    5.T         63.6      63.8      63.0       61.9      60.S      59.0       17.5       55.9
IBD Debt / Total DMC                         7.2      6.3         5.4       5.7       6.2        6.2       6.0        5.8       SJ.         5.4
Debt service/Exports WXS   j                66.2    359.5        73.8      51.0       47.0      42.4      38.7       37.0      34.5        32.3
Debt swrvic*Gd          qJ                   7.7     37.0         8.9       6.4        6.1       S.9       S.7        5.8       S.8         S.7
Interest /Exports GIrS                      36.3     40.1        36.4      36.2      34.1       31.6      28.9       26.7      24.6       22.7
Interest /GDP                                4.2      4.1         4.4       4.5       4.4        4.4       4.3        4.2       4.1        4.0
1IM/ Caestry Puihle Debt                     8.0      7.0         6.0       6.4       6.8        6.8       6.S       6.2        5.9        S.7
18RO1 Contry Pubtle Debt Serice  aj          8.1     20.2        60.6      10.9       10.7      10.2       9.0       10.8      11.2       12.1
EMD Debt Service I Exports WPS               4.8      5.1        22.8       3.4       3.0        2.8       2.3        2.6       2.4        2.2
Preferred Cred./Pubic Debt srwvice aj       24.8     83.1        78.4      33.5       33.0      31.3      31.1       32.8      34.4        37.2
tCuntry Share                                1.7       .5         1.4       1.5        1.6       1.6        1.5       1.4       1.3         1.3
Total o   (Slletion Us)                        21.6     23.2        25.2      26.7       28.3      29.9      31.3       32.8      34.5       36.5
......_ .....................................................................................................................................
aJ  P"btic debt service lncludes repasent of arrears to outtilaterats Institutions (1991 and 1992)
and reesscwhatfng of arrear owed to bitaterats. comerclal bu*s, and supptiers.
(contiwmed)



table 1.4 (Ccnthuaxd) - PMR  : ProJectians of Key EcnMic Idlectorw, 1990-1999.
..................................''''.'''''''''.'''''................................................................................................. _
Prel. ----------------------Projected....................I.
1990     1991        1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997      1998        1999
-----............................ *-.-....... ....................................................
Shares In Current DP (percent) :
..................... ................................ 
CeuEuapimfn                                   76.8     81.0        8019       80.8       81.0      31.2       80.8       80.4       9.7        78.7
Private                                    70.8      n.5         71.9       71.8       71.5      71.7       70.6      70.4       69.7        68.?
PuM I                                       6.0       8.5         9.0        9.0       9.5        9.5       10.0       10.0      10.0        10.0
D_mmtic SavigU                                23.2      19.0       19.1       19.2       19.0      18.8       19.2       19.6      20.3        21.3
Total tIweteet                                22.9     20.7        20.9       20.9       20.3      19.7       19.7       19.8      20.2        20.9
Grew. Cepitot  romtln          '            18.7     19.7        20.7       20.7      20.2       19.6       19.6       19.7      20.1        20.8
as/   Private                           16.2      16.2        16.7       16.7      16.2       15.6       15.6      15.7       16.0        16.5
PubtIc                             2.4       3.5        4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0       4.1         4.3
Uhnqe in Stocks                              4.2      1.0         0.2        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1         0.1
Resource Bateos                                0.3     -1.8        -1.8       -1.6       -1.3       O.i       -0.5       -0.2       0.1         0.4
lt4crto GPs                                 10.9     10.3        12.1       12.5       13.0      13.9       14.8       15.8      16.7        17.6
itperts GMS                                10.6      12.1        13.9       14.1      14.3       14.8       15.4      16.0       16.6        17.2
gatisisi Saings                               19.0     15.6        15.6       15.5       15.3      15.1       15.5       1S.9      16.4        17.3
Curren  tAccount                              -3.9     -5.2        -5.3       -S.3       -5.0      -4.6       -4.2       -3.9      -3.8       -..6
Tero   of Trade (1906a 100)                  165.7     96.0        92.4       89.7      89.7       90.8       92.7      94.7       96.7        98.7
X_PRICE                                    132.4    131.8       128.0      124.6     127.0      133.2      141.3     149.8      1S8.7       166.1
NJPRICE                                    125.3    137.3       138.5      138.9     141.6      146.8      1S2.4      156.2     164.2       170.4
It=o                                         -4.0       6.9         7.7        6.3       6.0        5.8        S.0       5.0        4.4         4.1
LIB0                                          8.51      .S5         8.01       7.6X       7.11      7.03       6.41      6.4X       6.4X        6.41
...............................    ,.,..    ....    .....,   . ....II



- 44 -
AN  
Page 6 of 11
Notes to Tables 1.1 to 1.4
Ihe ptojections in this Annex illustrate a feasible path for the economy under the stabilization
and stuctural reforms initiated by the Fujimori Government. These notes spell out some assumptions
behind the projections and some definitions of items projected.
L     Assumptions for Balance-ofPavments Items (Excluding Debt Servicing and the Capital
Accounta and National Accounts
The key country assumptions behind the forecasts in Tables 1.1, 1.3, and 1.4 are as
follows:
1.    After three consecutive years of decline, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is expected
to grow by 2.8 percent during 1991, the rate increasing steadily to reach 4.5 percent
in 1999 (an average of 3.3 percent for the period).
2.    Population is assumed to grow at 2.5 percent a year up to 1991, declining to 2.2
percent by 1997.
3.    Exports of goods and non-factor services are expected, because of the trade reforms,
to be a major contributor to GDP growth. After an initial decline of 5.4 percent in
1991, reflecting the appreciation of the real exchange rate, export growth will recover
to about 18 percent and 11 percent during 1992 and 1993, respectively. For the rest
of the period, exports are assumed to grow at an average of 9 percent per year,
increasing their share in GDP from 11 percent in 1990 to about 18 percent in 1999
(a level consistent with shares attained in the 1950s, 1960s, and early 1980s, wK - the
economy was more open - see Figure 2.1 of Annex 2).
4.    Similarly, imports of goods and non-factor services, after an initial increment of about
13 percent in 1992, are assumed to grow at an average of about 7.5 percent between
1993 and 1999, to reach a level of 17 percent of GDP in 1999 (up from 11 percent
in 1990). The net movement of imports and exports would reduce the  urent-
account deficit from 52 percent of GDP in 1991 to 3.6 percent in 1999.
5.    The ratio of investment to GDP is expected to increase from 19 percent in 1991 to
21 percent in 1999, with an average ratio of 20 percent during this period, a level
comparable to other middle-income economies. During the same period, public gross
capital formation would nse to 4.3 percent of GDP from 2.4 percent.
6.    Between 1991 and 1999, contraction in demand would result in a growth in
consumption of only 2.4 percent a year, consistent with an average level of total
consumption of 81 percent of GDP. In 1999, public consumption would recover to
10 percent of GDP, similar to levels in other middle-income economies. However,
growth in total consumption is expected to be enough to allow an incree in per
capita consumption from 1995 onwards.



- 45 -
Page 7 of 11
7.    For the period as a whole, these trends would result in an increase in domestic savinp
from 19 to 21 percent of GDP. Similarly, national savings, because of the increasing
level of investment and the improving current-account balance, would increase from
15 to 17 percent of GDP.
IL    Deription of Line Items in Table 1.2: Balance of Payments (Financing Requirements and
Possible Sources of Financing)
1.    Non-Interest Current Account Deficit: fom Table 1.1.
2.    Debt Service Obligations; estimated publicly guaranteed debt service obligations to
the IBRD, IlDB, IMF, and bilateral and private aeditors.
3.    Total Arrears: arrears outstanding to the IBRD, 1DB, IM, and bilateral and private
creditors.
4.    Increase in Gross Reseres: estimated targets for increase in Central Bank reserves.
6.i   Loan Disbursements in Pipeline: estimated disbursements already in the pipelie
from the 1DB, bilateral creditors, and unguaranteed private creditors.
7.    Private Caidtal Flows: direct foreign investment and funds repatriated from abroad
(includes errors and omissions).
9.    Debt Reschgeuling and Deferral: in 1991 and 1992 all official bilateral debt is
assumed to be rescheduled on the terms secured in the September 1991 Paris Club
negotiations (see below). In 1993 and beyond, pre-cutoff debt service due to the
Paris aub of creditors is assumed to be rescheduled. Other official bilateral debt is
assumed to be serviced.  Private debt service is assumed to be rescheduled every
year for 1991-99.
The terms of the September 1991 Paris Club agreemen. mre as follows.
Rescheduled:1
Current maturities due during the consolidation period2 and arrears on short, medium
and long-term debt on pre-cutoff debt,' including previously rescheduled debt.
ODA loans rescheduled at 20 years including 10 years grace, with
concessional interest rate.
'Rescedue on terms reserved for heavily iu ed lower middle income countries.
2Me consodation period is from October 1, 1991 to Decembe 31, 1992.
3Pe-coff debt is debt conacted before January 1, 1983, te time of the first Paris Club resceduing.



- 46 -
AI
Page 8 of 11
*     Commercial credits rescheduled at 15 years including 8 year grace,
with market interest rate.
Defer:
1) Moratorium interest due during the consolidation period on rescheduled debt:
*     30 percent to be repaid in four equal semi-annual installments
beginning November 15, 1992 and ending May 15, 1994.
*     70 percent to be repaid in six equal semi-annual instaments
beginning May 15, 1995 and ending November 15, 1997.
2) Arrears on post-cutoff debt:
*     100 percent to be repaid in 12 equal semi-annual instalents
beining June 30, 1993 and eng December 31, 1998 (defement
contingent on performance under the IMFs RAP).
Current maturities due durng the consolidation period on post cutoff debt.
o     SDR15 million will be deposited into a special account monthly 4ritng
1992.
In addition, it is assumed that pre-cutoff debt servce owed to Paris Club creditors wil
continually be rescheduled through 1999.
10.   Additional DisbusMents: estimated new disbursements from the IBRD, IDB, IME,
and bilateral creditors.
11.   Additional Fmancing Required: this residual figure is the financing gap.



- 47 -
AtNNEXt
Page 9 of 11
Table 1.S: PERU: EXTERNAL OUJTANDNG DEBM  at
(STOCKS IN US$ MILLIONS AS OF DECEMBER 1990)
Stocks              (of which
Ar
I.MEDUM- AND LONG-TERM DEBT                   20,341                   13,414
1.1    Public Sector                    19,965                  13,414
a.   Multilateral Creditors       3,972                   2,156
-    'World Bank                  1.560                     924
IMP                          1,004                     875
-    1DB                          1,077                     357
Other                          331
b.  Paris Club Creditors          6,839                   4,835
c.   Other Bilateral Creditors    2,272                     136
d.   Commercial Banks and
Unguaranteed Suppliers       6,882                   6,287
1.2    Private Sector                      376                     n.a.
11.   SHORT-T=  DMT                            1,366                      58
m.   TOTAL PM                                 21707                    13472  bi
a/   Includes cufrent prncipal and arrears.
bJ    Excludes  ears of MLT pivate sectr debt.
Sgg=: Central Bank, IMF, and Ministry of Economy and Finance.



ltae 1.6. * PM: Monthly  cnwie tldicaters, uly 1990 * Octder 199
-................19 -^---*----*--*-*-*-*----------------------------------- .................... .gtm -------
...... ............,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,......................................................................,,........   ............................ .,,,........... .,,,,,,,........................ ..................--
AJU     Aug.   Sept.    Oct.    NOv.    one.    Jan.    Feb.   fterd    Aprit            Nay    June    JUly  AUPCt   Sept.  Oct.
... ........................................... ............................................   ...................................... . .,....... ,,.................................. ... ..,,,,,,.,_,_,,, ,..................... ".,  
fps (Augut 1109tOb)                    20.1   100.0   113.5   124.?   132.1   163.4   192.5   210.6  2rA.0   239.9   256.2   28.2   307.9   330.0   346J  362.4
S d ige eve  ast month               63.2   397.0    13.6        9.6      S.9    23.7    17.8       9.4   r.r         s.6      7.6      9.3      9.1      7.2      S.6    4.0
sthlychange at       RIrate ()   35.591 9               372     200       99    1,184      614      194      14        97      141      191     154      130       92     60
t dhe  er last 12 mnths             3.040   12,375   It,1lb   9,045    8,271    7,639   6.924    5,78      4,663    3,585   2,686    2.189    1.430      230      206    19t
Real %e irne  (I $e "R0I0)            111.2    41.9    54.6    74.1    84.4    79.9    80.3    66.0    83.3    82.0    84.5    85.e                n.e      Me      fl.*    n.e
Etchne  Rote Ifrfet t
SIIUSS                               0.12    0.3?    O.4        O.4      0.43    O.S2    0.54      0.56    o.57      0.7o    0.83     0.64     0.60    0.79      0.83   0.96
Ro tnlel Devltion  bj.0m   204.82    19.1S    .1.32    .0.92    20.6                       3.12     3.72     1.6S    22.62    18."      1.82    -4.6S     1.92    5.71   15.1t
Real Excdg Rate I        c_/         6.8    42.6    4S.0    40.9    38.7    38.1    33.4    32.1    29.4    33.7    37.0    33.9    29.8    27.s    27.$   31.4
Prodiution Indieators (1979%100) 
GP idex                              94.?7   82.9    76.7    o5.5         9.7    98.1    97.1    95.S    92.4   101.1    99.4          9.4    97.2    94.2         n."    n.a
InAtrile  Sector Index               67.1    74.4    S9.1    74.7    91.5    88.9    94.4    91.9    89.3    97.2    97.2    93.1    94.6    90.6                 n.e   nMe
Rentimly lnteest ote. for Deposits
Soles Accmmts :
R.ln,l Bates                        35.6    3S.6    11.2        7.3      5.S      6.0     6.5      8.4      9.4      8.0      7.2      74       9.4     9.3      5.7 sr   .
Real Rttes                         .16.9   *72.       -2.3    -2.1    -0.4   .14.3    -9.6    *0.9          1.6      2.1    -0.4    -I.?        0.3      2.0     0.1    n.
Dollr Accouts  s
wmint Rates 8J                       0.7      0.7     0.7      o.?      0.r      o.7      0.6      0.5      o.s      0.8      0.8      0.8      1.0      1.0      0.7    0.? 0
lost Bate.                          -4.4   -38.3      5.3    -9.3    -5.8    -1.8   -12.0    -4.7    fS.            17.0    11.1       6.6   -.1.       *7.6      0.6   11.4
rasd (Mllion 11w t)                     260     239      161      207      196      m        187      212      19?      260     312      218      289      2        n.o    n.o
Merdawds Efxpwor                      216      31s      310     271       88      296      251      281      m        290      266      312     300      300      n.e     n.e
0* : troditleal                       196      234     235       184     203      210      178      208      n.e      n.e      n.e      n.o     n.e       n.o     n.e    *. a
Non-traditIonal                  n        76       74       87      85       e5       73       73      n.o      n.e      n.e        e      n.e      n.       n.o    n.o
qteratln  of Control    6 vermamut
(In Millions tW0
On Acenul sis 2
Ummet                               lo      141      22S     242       W       296      374      287      290      309      254      23?     322      317      36r    n.e
uponditws   fj                      254      302      239     290      368      382      357      292      302      332      260      259     332      324      n.o     n.o
beficIt                             147      161      14       49       29       85      -17        5       12      s57        6       23      I1        r      n.o     n.o
0h Cash ais:
Remu                                l        1105  140  217   237      326      28       34S      252      269      3S9      242      234     302      296      n.o     n.e
Ei pudtwefJ                         too      1        191     205      263      330      289      223      275      287      202      91      292      261      n.e      n.e
Oeficlt                              75       59      .26      -29     -64       43      -56      -29        6      .72     -40       -43      -10     -35      n.o      n.o
..............................................,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,  ,, ,,,,,,.,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,.,,,,,,.,.,,,,,,,,,..,,_. ............................................................................................................ .
a_ In A_gt t9M0 mntly unalied Inflation rote oa 22,T13,113,069L                                                                                       (Cntimild)
b_ Percata1e vrlItlon 0e previos   nt.
/t    a O O    ar 1975M  a 100.
d- Aver, for alt 4   lt *cenatl In l Slettars. Stertfng In April 1991, It'. rate for saings dpsits.
*_/ Stto         sr Iy 19  the atbe is the Casta   S2rlntedimny (SUM).
j Incls marrant  i sepital e1pndttures.
sone: ContrAl Sak ad lbtd  _* estlmmotmo
.....                     .                                                                                                 O R~~~~~~~~I



tAble 1.6 (continued)- PMU  t lonthly Economic Indicators. My 1990 -  cttobe 9
1990......................                                                          19.................,  19 . .
.................................................................................................................................................................................    ..................................................................................
July    Aug.   Sept.    oct.  Ile.    Dec.    Jan.    Feb.   Owch   April                 may    am        Jur    at   Sept. Oet
............................................. ..................................................................................................................... ..............    ..................................................................................
Central 8a t
.et.te t.st          e
etNIttlnM)        Ibs                            1U       42T      280      sn       SS1      451     419      499      599      623      7M       on02     900      944  n.5
In Nill isSS                        11O2       420      66       886      949      821      m       819      913      m        661      714      804      872      8?0  n.e
Nomlnal Crowth late In illS         -10.91   -61.2S    57.1S    34.32     7.1X   -13.51    -3.21     3.1%    11.41  -1S.46   -14.42     8.02    12.7X     6.5S    -0.22 n.e
Nomint Growth Rate In Sales          40.32   179.92   82.1X    33.22    6.32       2.32     1.22    6.92    13.41    3.92       1.4X    9.31     7.3X     6.42     5.52 n.a
Domestic Credit
in eitlos USS                       2,226      627      SS4      937      726     680      742      810      81S      662      562      526      601      606      629  n.e
in Niltien Soles                      lie      240      246      413      31?      35      401      454      465      464      467      44       481      476      5220.
lNmit Oreth Rote in USS              32.311   -71.20   -11.6    69.22   -22.6    -6.32      9.2X     9.12    0.7S   -18.82   -15.1t      6.42    14.22    0.92     3.82 n.'
Noinal Growth Rate in soles         106.32   102.92    2.5s    67.8X   -23.21    10.9X    14.12    13.12      2.S    *0.22    0.6X    -S.2z     8.72    -1.02     9.7X n.e
Finacisat Systm
lot Nilliari UlS$                   2.759    I 068    1t103    1 511    1.458    1.479    1.S21    1,570    I790    1.716    1.620    1.755    2 012   2.03      2.236ne
Ninml Growth Rate In 115             -4.32   409         I eT.0%   -3.52           1.42.    2.92    3.22    4.0    -4.11 oS.61          8.42  14.62       1.22z  X9. n.81
inat Growth Rate In slels            50.8s   184.32    17.2S   3S.92   -4.3X    20.02       7.52     7.0X    16.12    17.72    11.92    9.72     9.21    -0.7x   16.12 n.a
In Nittliona  S                     1.042      301      423      S87     648      741      6s       631      75s      703      627      670      743      724      767  n.a
laminat Growth Rate In UIS            7.42  -71.12    40.62    38.72    10.42    14.42   -11.2X   -4.01    19.6S    -6.9s   *10.81      6.91    10.82    -2.5S     6.02 n.5
ominal Growt Rate in Soles           69.12   106.80    63.02    37.62    9.6X    35.42    -7.3S    -O.SX    21.7X    14.42    S.7X   .8.22       5.52   -4.32    12.12 n.a
Deposits in US'                                                                                                       1391    1;        t,7t    1.908   2,025 2I091tn.
in 31i111mw US                        674      663      697      83      934    1 032    1 160    1,219    1.273    *.9               I2 9.02    9.02    6.12    3.32 n
Nowmina Grout,Rst4i in U$2.42   -1.4                    5.32    20.12    11.52C   10.42    12.4t    5.12     4.52     9.22    15.s3     90        .1       .X      33   .
Breed Noney Sqipy 9ej
In 31t1t1m  Il                      2.585    1 228    1554    1 964    2 196   2.203    2,235   2.333    2 618    2,684    2.m       2.989    3 319   3,S49   3,676  n.e
Nminat  rwtb late In U*6S -4.12   42.52 S               6.42 6   6.4S    i1.8      0.32     1.52     4.42    12.2S    2.5X     1.42     9.82   i.1X      6.92     3.62 n.e
Nminal Groth Rate In Soles          S1.0   242.42    46.7S   25.42    10.9X   18.72    6.01         8.3X    14.2X    25.92    20.2X    11.12    5.62     4.9X     9.52 n.e
Ratio I
Deposlts In IS I Deposits In Soles    35.33   117.22   81.41    74.42    74.02   88.12   107.82   10g.42   94.7X   107.64   144.11   141.42   13S.1X   132.82   131.92 n.a
........................................................................................................................................................ ........................
eJ Include al finwclat  operatins dof fmal financil institutlems (bants
mid other nen-lbt N with IcIc agents, In Soles  d US Dollat rs.
Surce t Central Satk ad owid Bark etimates
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I,



-51 - 
Page 1 of 10
Figure 2.1
Peru: Ratios of Trade to GDP,
1950 - 1990
30.
25-
0I
o 20-
~.  5
0~~~~1h 
1 50 1 55 1 60 1 65 1 70 1 75 1 80 1 85 1 90
1 M  Exports/GDP M  Imports/GDP
Source: BCRP



-52 -                      AE
Page 2 of 10
Figure 2.2
Peru: Effective Protection from Tariffs
on Manufactures, 1990 - 1991
Tr
Printing  ui     ________
*  Cloth ing oo .  ._._-
Sted -bcc.   =; ________.._______..____
n   0i5 ~~         ~   ~~-----------------
M& Produts  ^  __
0     20    40    so    80    100    120    140
Effective Protection Rate 
I March 1991           December 1990 F--J July,ISS99
Source: Rossini (1991)



-53 -
Page 3 of 10
Figure 2.3
Peru: Real Exchange Rate Index,
1985-1991
160_
140
120 
600-
j$80-  
1-60-                    .  .'}
40-
20-                                               ii.. hlJhhiIgIphihIlllllll ull-
19 5      19,6       1997       19I8 1989             1990       19 1
Source: BCRP
Note:    The real exchange rate index (RER) is defined as follows:
(nex of Rdevant teatonal Inflan for PeN) (Inde of NominalExhangp Rale)
RER =
Index of CPI for Peru
The base for the index is December 1978. The exchange rate used through July
1990 is trade-weighted; from August 1990 onwards it is the free market exchange
rate. A rise in the index implies a depreciation.



-54 -
Page 4 of 10
Figure 2.4
Peru: Exports and Imports,
1989 - 1991
400
350-
300
2S-
020
5
aa
}~~~~~~~~~~A' .i .9    .1  91
.  t- Exports m   Imports
Source: APOYO and Alerta Econ6mica



- 55 -               Psgo S of 10
Figure 2.5
Peru: Black Market Exchange Rate
Premium, 1985- 1-991
800'1 
700n
600
p500
400
0- 300
200-
*1*00
0
BSource             IIBC RP  I I I I i  30      1 1
Source: BCRP



-56-                     A 2
Page 6 of 10
Figure 2.6
Peru: Production-Weighted Distribution
of Tariffs, 1990 and 1991
80
~70
:60°/
O50Q
40
~20-
10)
January 1990
o                                          7March 1991
5%        15%        25%       50%
Tariff Rates
Source: RossiDi (1991)



-57 -                      ARM
Page 7 of 10
Figgure 2.7
Peru: Export Subsidies,
1980 - 1990
25
20-
s/on-traditionol
rtc:l exports
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990
Source: BCRP



- 58- 
Pago 8 of 10
Figure 2.8
Peru: Export Taxes Collected,
1980 -1990
1204                                      
| 16-'  l
12-
0     1,l A                                    ttotal exports
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990
Source: BCRP



_59 _                          AN=2
Page 9 of 10
Fiure 2.9
Peru: Import Taxes Collected,
1989 - 1991
30-
25-
020-
10
O 0
1 §89                    t 9                  1 §9 1
Yeor and Month
l 1  taxes/imports   _  taxes/revenue |
Source: BCRP
Note:    The ratio of import taxes to imports is calculated using the parallel
exchnge rate (PER). Given the high PER premium in the months through July
1990 (see Figure 2.5), the use of the PER results in a larger ratio of import taxes
to imports than would the use of t}e official exchange rate.



- 60 -                                    AXNEa
Page 10 of 10
APOYO S.A., Situacib E  onWmia 1  em one  mayo 1991.
Banco Central de Reserva del Perd (B3CRP), NotaSema. varous Issues.
Ministeric de Economfa y Finanzs,      Eco        No. 8, enero 1991.
Rossini, Renzo G., -Las Medidas Reclentes de Aperara Comercial-, LaMon2a, No.33, mazo 1991.



-61 -ARM 3
Page 1 of 4
....
1-IMPORsT TARIFFS
1.1 STRUCTURE               Range of 0484%; 38         By March, 1991, 3-rate      Eliminate 5% rteo (steel-
rates; u n weighted        structure of 5, 15, 25%;.   industry  Inputs)  by
average  of  45%;          average of 17%; coeff.      March  1992: unWss
coefficient of variation   of variation of 23%         lmpismentation  during
of 55%                                                  1992 of an Andear.-
Group common extenad
tariff appears likely by
that time
1.2 PREFERENCES ON          139 regimes, accounting    Elimination  of most
THE  DOMESTIC          for half of Imports         regimes by September,
MARKET                                             1990 (major exceptions
are educational &
oultural Institutions;
treaty agreements
1.3 SPECIFIC TARIFFS        No specifio tariffs: some  R e m o v a l of all        Publicize,  by  Board
AND  TARIFF            surcharges                  surcharges by March         presentation, the
SURCHARGES                                         1991;vsriablesurchargs      existing  method  of
on  5  agricultural         setting  the  variable
products, introduced in     surcharge.
May 1991                    Reform  of surcharge
scheme: agree study
TOR by March 1992,
agree Implementation
guidelInes by June
1992. enact reform by
September 1992
1.4 SAFEGUARD              Cus toms  use  of           Introduotion of an anti     Reform of anti-dumping
MECHANISM               reference  p r ices        dumping/subsidy code In     code: agree study TOR
pertmitted  to  prevent    June 1991                   by Board Presentaton
damage to the national                                 enast refom by Marsh
economy OIn abeyance)                                   1992



- 62 -ANNEI
Page 2 of 4
W~~~~~~~~~~'
2 .
2. NON-TARIFF
IMPORT MRIAiS
2.1 FORMAL                  10%   of tariff  lines      All prohibitions/
PROTECTiVE              (affecting  40%   of        restrictions suspended
BARRIERS                mnanuf a ctu ri ng)         by  September 1990,
(NEGATIVE USTS)         prohibited or restticted    permanently lberaeiked
by March 1991
2.2 HEALTH,                 Technical standards &       Various reforms from         Reform  of health and
TECHNICAL.              agrieolturel, health, and   March to May 1991,          p h V t o 8 a n I t a r y
SECURITY, AND           misc. controls              removing or simplifying     regulations & tochnicd
MISCELLANEOUS                                       controls; reintroduction    standards: agree study
REGULATIONS                                         of controls In a few        TOR  by  Board
cases                       presentation, agree
Implementatlon
guidelines by Moah
1992, enact reforn by
June 1992
2.3 IMPORT                  In  existence  for oil       All public-enterprise
MONOPOUES               (Petroperul; wheat,         monopolies removed in
flour, sugar (ENCI); rice   principle in March 1991;
(ECASA)                     ENCI  &  ECASA
monopolies removed in
March *1991; Petroperu
monopoly removed in
August 1991
2.4 LOCAL-CONTENT           Applied to motor-vehicle    All lo cal-content
REGULATIONS             production                  regulations eliminated In
March 1991
2.6 CONTROLS ON             Ptohibition of all second-  Imports of most second-
SECOND-HAND             handgoods                   hand goods allowed In
IMPORTS                                             November, 1990 and of
machinery and vehicles
In March 1991; only
controls on clothing,
shoes, and bath fixtures
remain



-63-                                                 -
Page 3 of 4
i.EX-PORT    N REQ
3.1 TAXES ON                Taxes ranging from 3%        After 10%  surcharge
TRADmONAL               to8%                         from   August  to
EXPORTS                                              November 1990, taxes
range from 0% to 10%
by February 1991
3.2 SUBSIDIES  FOR          CERTEX:  fob  xport          Reduction  (Aug  ).
NON-TRADmONAL           subsidy  of  15.30%;         then  abolition
EXPORTS                 FENT  (suspended):           (November 1990)  of
interest-rate subsidies     CERTEX: abolition  of
fENT In November 1990
8.3 INDIRECT TAX            Temporary  Admission         A u t o m a t i o n  o f
TREATMENT               scheme in operation, but     Temp.Adm. scheme and
restricted scope and low    its broadening to  all
automatity                  expofters  In  March
1991; introduction of
drawback scheme for
non-trod. exports In
March 1991
3.4 EXPORT                  Duty-free  capital-good      No now contracts are
CONTRACTS               imlgrts  against non-        being  issued  and
traditional  export         scheo is defunct
contraots
3.5 FREE TRADE ZONE         Two FTZs exist, but
only selling domestically
and not developed for
expen industtis
3.8 NON-TARIFF              Controls  to  preserve       Removal of controls In
EXPORT                  domestic-market supply       March 1991
CONTROLS
3.7 EXPORT                   Required  for  fish,
CERTiFICATION           mineral,  agricultural
exports



-64-                                        A M
Page 4 of 4
S                           ..  ..                                         .  .
4.,
4.1 NON-TARIFF             ICE adrniinisters major      ICE d-e setvated In June
BARRIERS                iTBS, as well as export     1P9O9L1,  a Pn d    I t.s
subsidies                  promotionsifunedons go
to MiCTi
4.2 TARIFF                                              Creation  of Control       Proosdums  to ensure
ADMINISTRATION                                     Cornmission for anti-       open, irnartiai anti-
,MEF)                                              dumping rules               dumping hestnga to be
tagreed by loan
negodaton
4,3 CUSTONS                                            Transfer of  some           AgraemnAnt by  Board
4 ERVICE                                           funAtions  to  private      prasentdEon on Aoteon
agents; monopoly an        Plan; oornpliano w1th
oustoms  warehouses        three phgo  o Aoton
retnoved                   Plan,  by       ea0rd
presontation  (1).  by
M4rch 1992 Ce t2), b   bo
June 1992 (3)
4.4 EXPORT                                             Function transoerred in
PROMOTiON                                          June 199n from ICE to
4.5 TRADE                                              Creation in Jun1 199by
NEGOTIATiON                                        of an inter rninistsrial
comn-M1ted, wyth  an
Office  of  TradJ
ReprMseCtadve in MICTi
4.5 TRADELAW                                            Augustt1991pssuge f
a Legislative Decree
elevating to the status
of a law many of the
trade raforms passed
since August 1990



- 65 -
ANNEX4
Page 1 of 10
NON-TABREW ARER
1.    All countries apply health, safety, and technical regulations to many locally consumed
products, and sometimes to exports. These norms are usually justified by a government's obligat
to protect the population from risks to health and safety. But when these norms are also used to favor
domestic producers at the expense of imports, they become discriminatory non-tariff barriers (NTBs).
This type of barrier has tended to become more frequently used - in developed and developing
countries alike - when more conventional barriers (tariff and non-tariff) have fallen. It is often
difficult to identify these instruments of the "new protecdonism" - they may exist as much in
bureaucratic procedures as in formal legal instruments - and it is even more difficult to measure their
impact.
Non-Tariff Barriers in Peru
2.    In Peru during the 1980s "conventional" non-tariff barriers predominated: import prohibitions
and licenses constituted the majority of such barriers and were supplemented by foreign-exchange
conols, minimum-local-content regulations, import monopolies, and other controls. In 1987 and
1988, formal import controls were at their height, with all imports subject to restriction or prohibition
(See Table 4. 1). But even by the end of 1989, when controls had been eased, prohibitions on a mere
five percent of all tariff lines protected an estimated 40 percent of manufacturing output.
Table 4.1:  PERU: NON-TARIFFBARRIERS.1981 -_1990 (BY NUMBER OF TARF CATEGORIES
Dec  Dec   July  Dec  Dcc  Dec  Dec  April  Aug Sept
1981  1953   1985  1985  1987  19889 19 1990  1990  1990
Fre                5,088 5,136  4,757 3,259    0    0 4,192 4,721 S,6 S2
Rtriated            112  118   350 1,553 4,715 4,724  535    6    0    0
Prohibited            7    a       8   525  539  539  539  539   13    0
Temporarily Pohibited  0    0    188    0    0    0    0    0    0    0
Tolal Tariff Categories  5,207 5,262  5,303 5,254 5,254 5,2 5W    5,269 5,269 5
Sgur: Abusada (1991)
3.    Since assuming power in July, 1990, the new Government has made considerable progress in
removing protective non-tariff barriers. In August, 1990, Supreme Decree (DS) 228-90-EF reduced
import prohibitions to 13 tariff positions and suspended several technical norms which had a
discriminatory effect. In September, DS 257-90-EF eliminated the last fonnul "negative lists"
(restrictions and most prohibitions) on imports. In March, 1991, DS 060-91-EF eliminated all
administrative restrictions on merchandise trade, including minimum-domestic-content regulations and
domestic-market-supply-related export restrictions, except for a prohibited list of exports, restric
derived from foreign-exchange rules, health controls, defense of cultural patimony, conservation of
Rota and fauna, and defense or security requirements. The elimination of cetain non-taiff barriers
was subsequently given the force of law by the passage of Decreto Legislativo 668 in Septer,
1991.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 10
4.    The Appendix to this Annex lists all known non-tariff barriers, whether discriminatory or not,
existing as of August, 1990, or November, 1991. Of the 45 non-tariff barriers thus identified, 22
have been eliminated, eight seem to have been eased, and 15 remain in force. Three of these 15 were
instituted XU August, 1990, in pat at least as a result of pressures from specific interest groups.
5.    The non-tariff barriers eliminated include most of the restrictions that are more clearly
discriminatory, such as state monopolies for import of foodstuffs, Register of Imports from Andean
Group Countries, and the oil monopoly of PETROPERU. The Pre-Authorized Licence to Import
(Licencla Previa de lmportacddn), required for imports financed with a preferential exchange rate, the
clause of the Law of Industry (Ley de Industras) which protected national industry, and the
Authorization of No Competition (Dictdmen de No Competencla), a minimum-domestic-content
regulation, were also abrogated. Other non-tariff barriers eliminated were: quality controls on animal
feeds and canned and processed foodstuffs; import prohibitions for gold, printing and photocopying
machines, ships, airplanes, and passenger vehicles; temporary suspension of imports of garlic and
onions; and minimum-content regulations for products of industrial assembly.
6.    Eight non-tariff barriers have been eased, either by the removal of procedures required prior
to importing, or by an increase in the transparency of these procedures. The Certificate of Internment
(Gertificado de Internamiento) from the Ministry of Health, needed prior to the import of medicines,
perfumes, cosmetics, or medical equipment, is no longer required, and the receipt of a Product
Registration (Registro Sanitarlo) for an imported product is now automatic if the importer's
application is not processed by the government within fifteen working days. Various inconsistent and
complex procedures prior to the import of veterinary products and non-banned pesticides have been
eliminated; these imports can now enter the country after presentation of a single document (the
Declaracin Jurada) which describes them. The prohibition on imports of used industrial goods has
been loosened for the paper industry to allow for the import of paper and carton residuals, a key input
in the manufacture of paper and cardboard. The process for obtaining Quality Certifications
(Certificaciones de Caldad) and a Product Registration from the National Istitute for Nutrition for
imported and domestic processed foodstuffs has been made less complicated. Cotton import
regulations have been eased such that only cotton imports from the American continent (with a few
exceptions) must undergo fumigatlon in special chambers. Used goods regulations have been relaxed
to allow for the import of used machine parts, motors, automobiles, and engines.
7.    Most of the non-tariff barriers not eliminated or eased are restrictions based on the need to
protect the safety, health, and security of the country. The non-tariff barriers which exist for safety
and health reasons are Technological Requirements for Meat Products (Reglamento Tecnoldgico de
Cames), Phytosanitary Permits (Permisos Fftosanltarios) for imports of vegetal origin, Zoosanitary
Permits (Permisos Zoosanltarlos) for imports of animal origin (i.e., milk, leather, skins, etc),
packaging control of canned and boxed goeds, radiological control of canned goods (in place ever
since the Chernobyl disaster), certification of fish products (though the need for this is questionable),
the ban on organochloridic pesticides (such as DDT), and the restriction on imports of human
remains.



- 67 -
AN=E 4
Page 3 of 10
8.    The restrictions on the import of maps, cartographic materials, cultural nnrifacts, arms, and
communication equipment are of a non-economic nature. The prohibition of imports of used clothing,
laundry and bathroom articles (i.e., towels, sinks, showerheads, tubs, etc) is clearly a discriminatory
non-tariff barrier which was not removed during the post-August trade liberalization.
9.    Legislative Decree No. 653 established the "Law to Promote Investment in the Agricultural
Sector" in August 1991. This decree reinforced two decrees (passed in June and July of 1991) which
prohibited the import of powdered mik products for use as inputs into the production of re-
constiuted milk, butter, and other dairy-based products. This prohibition, and the required pre-
inspection of goods at the port of origin (established by Legislative Decree No.659 in August 1991)
weie put into effect after August 1990, and may be seen as reversals in the liberalization process.
Eyguation
10.   On balance, Peru has made enormous progress in removing distortionary non-tariff barriers.
In light of Peru's previous efforts at liberalization (1979-1981), the evolution of a new, free
environment for trade has advanced at a remarkably rapid pace, with support from most sectors of the
economy. Conventional non-tariff barriers - negative lists, import monopolies, and the like - have
now been virtually eliminated and the less conventional barriers provided by technical, health, and
safety regulations now constitute the core of residual non-tariff protection.
11.   With the passing of Legislative Decree No.668 in September, 1991, the Government renewed
its committment tc liberalize trade and eliminate non-tariff barriers. The Government is banned from
engaging in monepolistic or oligopolistic activities in the private sector and the power of law is given
,to certain articles of other regulations which eliminate minimum-domestic-content requirements for
both imported and domestically-produced goods. In this legislative decree the Government also
undertakes to apply health and technical regulations in a non-discriminatory way. According to
Article 13, "the State will guarantee that future norms will not constitute obstacles to the free flow of
goods and services and will allow for equitable treatment of imported and local goods." Ihis will in
tr require the Government to examine the way it applies its existing non-tariff barriers and
sanctions new ones.
REFERENCES
Abusada, Roberto,    m   Comercial en el Perd, (mimeo), mayo 1991.
Abusada, Roberto, La Reforma dela Polftica Para-Arancelaria Peruana (1990-l9911, (mimeo), septlembre
1991.
AfOYO,  Es_ gue Afct  la Eficlencia de la Indu=kManufacturera en el Perd (mimeo) octubre
1990.
ECONSULT, S.A., Avance en la Desreeulacidn del omerclo Extir Peruano, (mimeo), agosto 1991.
Rossini, Renzo G., *Las Medidas Recientes de Apertura Comercial", La Mgn a, No.33, mawzo de 1991.



- 68 -
AN=
Page 4 of 10
AMEND  TC ANNEX 4
PEU; NON-TARIFF BARRIS
NAME  OF NTH                        SITUATION UNTIL                    CHANGES SINCE
AUGUT 1990                         ALM=S 1990
IRESTPJCIlONS 1T H1AU
BEEN EURMAINAE
REGISTER OF IPORTING               Importing firms had to be           The Regis  is no longeri
FIRMS IN THE TRADE                  registered in the Trade Insttute.  effect
INSTTUTE (RtEGISRO DE
EMPRESAS IMPORTADORAS
EN EL ICE)
STATE MONOPOLY IN                  Exclusive import rights granted to  Import monopolies eliminated In
FOODSTUFFS                          ENCI (wheat, wheat flour, white    March 1991.
and cn^de sugar) and ECASA
(rice).
IMPORT OF FOODSTUFFS               Imports of foodstuffs other than    The Certifcate Is no longer
those of ENCI and ECASA            required, and the procedure for
required a Certificate of          acquiring a Product Registration
Internment from the National       has been simplified.
Institute of Nutrition INN) and
must have received a registration
number before entering the
country.
RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF             DS 053-85-AG required importer     Sale and import of animal feod
ANIMA  FEED                        registradon, feed approval, and      healized completely.
Other restrictions.
WOOD PRODUCTS                       Could not be freely imported.      DS 060-91-EF and DLeg 668
may have diminated restrictions.
ITINTEC EVALUATIONS                DS 055-84ITIIND required            No long In effect.
imported products to meet with
technical norms established for
similar domestic products.



ANNE 4
- 69 -                              Page S of 10
NAME OF NTB                         SITUATION UNTIL                    CHANGES SINCE
A-UGUST 1220                       AU=12
PHOTOCOPYING AND                    Could not be imported without      Sale and Import of photoopying
PRINTING MACHINES                   authorization from the Ministry    and priting machines freed.
of the Interior.
SPECIFIC IMPORT                     Ministry of Industr required       No longer needed.
AUTHORIZATION                       special documentation to import
(DICTAMEN ESPECIFICO DE             CKD packages, computers,
IMPORTACION)                        domestic electric products, and
other products of industrial
assembly.
CONSULAR REVIEW                    Restricted the import of            Automobiles can be imported
(VISACION CONSULAR)                automobiles.                        freely.
PRE-AUTHORIZED LUCENCE              Applied to imports under the       No longer exists.
TO IMPORT (LICENCIA                 MUC regime.
PREVIA)
AUTHORIZATION OF NO                 Used to protect domestic           No longer exists.
COMPETITION (DICTAMEN              producers from similar imported
DE NO COMPETENCIA)                  goods.
GOLD IMPORT                    -   State bad exclusive right to sell   'Me Importtexport of raw or
RESTRICTIONS                        precious metals in raw or semi-    semi-worked gold is totally
worked forms through the Banco     freed.
Mineral of Peru.
BOATS, SHIPS, AND                   Ministy of Defense needed to       No longer In effect The Genera
FREGHTERS                           authorize import of ships, big and  Office of Water Transport must
small.                             simply be notified after the
buying or selling of a ship.
REGISTER OF DECISION 200                                               No longer in effec.
LAW OF INDUSTRY (LEY DE             Ley 23407 established restrictions  Tle chapter which pvoted
INDUSTRIAS)                         on Imports of industrial products  national industry  as abolished
also produced domestically.        by DLeg 668 in September 1991.
ANDEAN GROUP                        Special document needed for        No longer in effect.
REGISTRATION                        imports originating in member
countries.
ANNUAL PRODUCTION PLAN             Enterprises in the industrial sector  DS4012-91-ICI1\IND removed
(PLAN ANUAL DE                      were obligated to prepare an       this obligation.
PRODUCCION)                         annual production plan.



4
- 70 -                               Page 6 of 10
NAME OFNTB                          SITUATION UNTIL                      CHANGES SINCE
A1GIIS  1990                        AlOS T IM
RESTRICTIONS ON THE                  Not in existence.                   In July 1991, impKs of ouions
IMPORT OF ONIONS AND                                                     and garlic from counties where
GARLIC                                                                   certain plan diseases are preset
were prohibited. This restiction
has been lifted in September
1991.
OIL MONOPOLY:                       PETROPERU exercised                  DLeg 655 elimnates the
PETROPERU                            monopoly powers in oil              monopoly privileges of
production, exploration rights,     PETROPERU and its affiates.
refining, distrib'ition, and impor
of oil and petoleum.
PROHIBMON ON IMORTS                  Since 1984, imports of              In August 1990 autombile
OF AUTOMOBILES                      automobiles, except for              import prohibitions wsre
diplomatic use, were prohibited.    eliminated.
NATIONAL UNIONS (JUNTAS              National Unions of Coffee,          This power is eliminated along
NACIONALES)                          Wheat, Milk Products, and           with any existing non-tarf
Hydrobiological Products            restrictions.
exercised power to restrict
exports and imports through non-
tariff barriers.
IMPORTING REGISTER                                                       Not in existence as of June 1991.
(REGISTRO UNICO DE
IMPORTACION)
aLnAVBEEN
LICENCE TO IMORT                     DS 164-82-AG and DS 018-86-         The Imorti  proes Is greatly
PESTICIDES (LICENCIA PARA            AG established regulations for      simplified; remang lboratoy
INTERNAMEtNTO DE                     Import of pesticides.               tests conform to itrnadonD
PLAGUICIDAS)                                                             standads.
IMPORT CERTIFICATE FOR              DS 124-81-AG established             The ipotg process is grety
VETERINARY PRODUCTS                 various import regulations for       simplified; remaining laboratory
(CERTIFICADO DE                     veterinary products.                 tests conform to Intedona
INTERNAMIENTO POR                                                        standards.
PRODUCTOS VETERINARIOS)



- 71 -                            Page 7 of 10
NAME OF NTB                         STIUATION UNTIL                     CHANGES SINCE
AUGUST 1990                         ALGUST 1
MINISTRY OF HEALTH                  Restrictions on import of           DS 003-91-SA eased many
RESMUCTIONS                         medicines, medical equipment,       restrictions; import process more
perfumes, and makeup.               transparent and efficient.
COlTON IMPORTS                      Not in existence                    In May 1991, RM 359-91-AG
required that cowtton Imports be
flmigated in special chambers,
the scarcity of which implied a
virtual prohibition of cotton
imports. This decree was
modified to submit only those
imports from the American
continent, except Ecudor,
Bolivia, and Argentina, to
chamber fumigation.
IMPORTS OF NATURAL OR               Imports of wastes, whether of       DS 036-90-ICTND allowed the
INDUSTRIAL WASTES                   natural or industri origin, were    paper industry to import paper
prohibited.                         and carton residues as they are a
major input for industrWi
recycling. The original law has
not been changed and thus other
sectors are seeking similar
treatment.
QUALITY CERTIFICATIONS              Imported or domestically            DLeg 658 allows any qualifiod
(CERTIFICACIONES DE                 produced goods needed               public or private isitution to
CALIDAD)                            certification of quality from a     grant the certificadon.
state-authorized institution.
IMPORT OF USED                      Most used goods (imdustial parts,   Most industrial used goods can be
INDUSTRIAL GOODS                    motors, cars, equipment, etc.)      freely Imported.
were on a list of prohibited
imports.



- 72 -                               Page8 of 10
NAMDE OFNTB                         SITUATION UNTIL                       CHANGES SINCE
AUGUST 1990                         AUUT199101
TECHNOLOGICAL                       DS 004-84-AG established             More quality requients are
REQUIREMENTS FOR MEAT               sanity requirements for              added in January 1991.
PRODUCTS (REGLAMENTO                imported meat.
TECNOLOGICO DE CARNES)
PHYTOSAN1TARY PERMIS                DS 016-76-AL established a           Phytosanikuy requireme   are
(PE]WSOS FITOSANITARIOS)            Sanitation Regulation                made more general; on the oher
(Reglamento Sanitario) for          hand, they are augmented.
imports of vegetal origin.
ZOOSANITARY PERMITS                 RS 117-76-AG Qater modified by       Zoosanitary requirements
(PERMISOS ZOOSANITARIOS)            RS 0122-86-DGAG), established        amplified in RM 0231-91-AG.
that products with an animal
origin (such as milk, meats,
leather, skins, etc) needed a
Zoosanitary Permit to be
imported.
METEOROLOGICAL AND                  Canned and botded products had       Standards have been made to
CONTENT CONTROL                     to meet MTlNTEC standards.           parallel international norms.
RADIOLOGICAL                        IPEN established maximum             Restriction remains in force and
CERTIFICATION FROM IPEN             permissible levels of radioactive    RM 00740-90-AG-DGA
contamination for imported          reinforced the original law.
foodstuffs.
GEOGRAPHIC TEXTS OR                 Could not be imported without        Still In effect.
CARTOGRAPHIC                        authorization from the Ministry
PUBLICATIONS                        of Foreign Relations.
RADIO-COMMUNICATION                 Ministry of Transportation needed    Still in effect.
EQUIPMENT                           to authorize Import of radio-
communication gear.
SECOND-HAND CLOTHES                 imports of used goods were           Other used good impots are
AND LAUNDRY ARTICLES                rrohibited.                          liberalized, but not clothing,
laundry or bathroom fixue;
however, used-goods imports
destined fbr donation allowed.



_ 73 -                              Page 9 of 10
OEF B                       SITUATION UNTIL                     CHANGES SINCE
AUGiST12990                        AUQUST 1299
ARMS RESTRICTIONS                  Ministry of the Interior needed to  Still in effecL
authorize import of arms,
ammunition, and explosives for
civil use (not for war).
HEALTH CERTIFICATE                 Ministry of Health needed to        Still in effect.
authorize import of human
remains.
CULTURAL AUTHORIZATION             National Institute of Culture       Still in effect.
needed to authorize import of
works of art, replicas, and books
of more than 100 years of age.
SANITARY CERTIFICATE               Sanitary requirements acted as      Has not been specifically
FOR FISH PRODUCTS                  barrier to imports. Some export     eliminated.
(CERTIFICACION SANITARIA           restrictions existed due to cholera
DE CERPER)                         epidemic.
POWDERED, SEMI-                    Since 1965, no more than 30% of     This domestic-content regulation
POWDERED MILK PRODUCTS             the inputs, such as powdered or     was eliminated by DS 060-91-EF
reconstituted milk, used in the    of March 1991. However, after
dairy industry could come from     August 1, 1991, imports of
sources outside Peru.              powdered milk products for use
as inputs in the productio of
dairy-based products were
prohibited. The August 1991
Law to Promote Investment in
the Agricultal Setor gave
force of law to this prohibitioL
Two recent Legislative Decrees
(668 in September and 757 in
November) reinforce this
prohibition.
PRE-INSPECTION OF                  Not in existence.                   In August 1991 DL4g 659
IMPORTED GOODS AT PORT                                                 required pwinspecion of imports
OF ORIGIN                                                              at port of origin to confirm
quantty, quality, and mode of
payment.
BANNED PESTICIDES                  A general regulation on pesticides  Internationally banned pesticides
existed.                           are prohibited entrance into Petu.



ANNEX-4
- 74 -                              PAP 10 of 10
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CERPER                     La Empresa Piblica de Certificaciones Pesquers del Perd
DLeg                       Decro Legislativo
DS                         Decreto Supremo
ECASA                      Empresa Nacional de Comercializaci6n de Arroz
ENCI                       Empresa Nacional de Comercializacidn de Insumos
ICE                        Instituto del Comerclo Exterior
INN                        Instituto Naclonal de Nutrici6n
IPEN                       Instituto Peruano de Energ(a Nuclear
ITINTEC                    Insitito Nacional de Tecnologfa
Ley                        Ley (Law)
MUC                        Mercado Unico de Canbios
RM                         Resoluc.6n Ministerial
RS                         Resoluci6n Suprema



- 75 -
Page 1 of 4
THE CUSTOMS ACI_ON PLAN: A SUMMARY I/
C,ustoms Rorm
1.    The Fujimonr Government imherited a Customs Superintendency (SUNAD) which was poorly
organized, ineffectively operated, overstaffed, poorly trained, and under-paid. In addition, due to an
il-defined and unstable legal framework, the body of customs regulations had developed incoherently:
inefficient forms of control have led to obstacles to trade and a high level of discretion on the part
of customs officials
2     In Mach, 1991, the Goverment initiated the process of reforming the customs service. This
began wnth a reduction of more than 500 personnel, mainly through incentives and voluntary
rtirement The Goverment also introduced a reform to saphfy the proces  inwvoed in the
different customs operations and tegulations. It authorized a new system of import and export
customs clearances, permitted the embarkation or disembarkation of goods by means of self-
assment, and instituted customs valuation based on documentary evidence and selective physical
amtion.
3.    SUNAD has an important role in executing the Government's policy of trade reform which
includes simplifying the remaining controls on trade. Thus, support aimed at increasing SUNAD's
efficiency wiU help consolidate these trade reforms. SUNAD's reoranizational efforts will need to
be supported by foreign advisory services which can bring new approaches to the tasks already
initiated. In addition, computer equipment and systems must be strengthened to simpli5 operational
procedures and obtain the information necessary for the efficient management of the customs system
4.    Customs reform will encompass: (i) the orgational stucture of SUNAD, (ii) its operating
procedures, (iii) the computer system, and (iv) human resources. An Action Plan for reform was
agreed between the MlB and the Peruvian Government, the three stages of the Plan coinciding with
the three tranches of the M)B's Trade Sector Loan. The Plan will be executed in the context of a
program of Technical Cooperation, financed partly by the IDB and partly by the Government. The
World Bank was involved in the disussions leading to the agreement on the Action Plan and will
support the fulfillment of the Plan in parallel to, and in consultation with, the IDB.
The Action Plan
A.    The Fiust State
S.    Thi will entail actions to be undertaken in SUNAD's organizational structure, including:
*     preparation of a draft General Customs Law,
IL This Annex provides summay iniformtion frome Plan de Accidn p u d SSIom do Adumas de Pnt, Ao
IV of IDI document Pant hdsum    Aidste del Sedo de Codmorio P1O3 : EdePon       10
September, 1991.



- 76 -
ANNEX-5
Page 2 of 4
*     preparation of a draft Legislative Decree to establish SUNAIYs own
regulations;
*     identification and definition of SUNAD's top management levels; and
*     definition of the functions of each section of SUNAD (and the size of its
personnel) and its Administrative Units
6.    The first stage will also include actions in the field of customs procedures and regulations,
such as:
*     approval of a procedure for export clearance;
*     creation of a Group to analyze and monitor operative procedures;
*     approval of a plan to review tax assessments of past imports declartions;
*     initietion of a procedure to enforce bank guarantees for overdue debts;
*     approval of the action plan to take inventory of, and auction off, goods left
unclaimed;
*     establishment and implementation of a comprehensive guarantee system for
in-transit goods and establishment of rules governing in-transit operations; and
*     identification of personnel in charge of the review of import and export
documentation.
B.    The Second Stage
7.    The following steps will be carried out in the area of organizational structure:
*     approval and publication of Legislative Decrees modifying the General
Customs Law and providing regulations for SUNAD;
*     formulation of a draft set of implementing regulations for the General
Customs Law;
*     approval and publication of the Statute of SUNAD;
*     approval of the new organizational stnucture of SUNAD;
*     naming of the employees for each division of SUNAD and of the units that
make up SUNAD's organizational structure;
e     the identification of personnel made redundant by the reorganization and of
means to carry out their separation; and



- 77 -
Page3df4
*     commencement of the purchasing process for the SUNAD building.
8     As for customs procedures and regulations, the actions will include the auctioning of goods
abandoned as of 30 June, 1991, the design and application of a system for monitoring manifests, and
the approial of the following:
*     criteria to select the operations to be submitted to on-site inspection;
*     procedure for adjusting settlements after assessing value;
*     procedures for customs verification of operations to load and unload goods
and their subsequent implementation.
9.    The processing of operations within the second stage will entail:
*     creation of the computing center;
*     defnition of general information needs and the configuration of the computer
system;
*     selection and acquisition of the elements necessary for the computer
equipment; and
*     system design and development p!an.
10.   In the area of human resources, the following steps will be taken:
*     approval of the programs for the selection of new personnel and dtse for
internal promotion;
*     approval of plans and proposals for short- and long-term training;
*     evaluation of the personnel and financial resources necessay for the Customs
School to operate; and
*     incorporation into the School of the training equipment envisaged in the
technical cooperation project
C.     he Third Stage
11.   Ihe acti as related to the organizational structure will include:
*     equipping of the new customs facilities;
*     completion of the commiunications network of the Customs System; and
*     approval and publication of the implementing regulations of the General
Customs Law.
12.   Actions for the reform of customs procedures and regulations will consist of
*     preparation, approval and implementation of the Manuals for the new prcedures



- 78 -
AM, S
Page 4 of 4
o     execution of the bi-annual Control Plan and the presentation of the results
of this; and
*     presentation of the figures for fiscal returns from the review of import and
export declarations.
13.   In the area of processing of operations, the actions wil involve;
*     deveOpment of computer files and sub-systems;
*     training of the users of the system; and
*     presentation of foreign trade statistics by tariff codes, countries, and economic
agents.
14.   In the area of human resources, the actions will include:
*     completion of the training courses set for this stage; and
*     inclusion in SUNAD's budget of the resources necessary for the operation of
the Customs School.



- 79 -
Page 1 of 18
REPUBL1CA DEL PERU
MMISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
DESPACHO MINISTERIAL
Oficio No. 206-91EF1O
Lima, Januaty 9th, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston,
President,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street N.W.,
Washington, D.C 20433
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.            To support the implementation of the trade refcnm that the GCrenment of
Peru has undertaken and the process of Peruvian reintegration into the international financial
communitY, the Government is requesting from the International Bank for Reconstucton and
Development (IBRD) a Trade Policy Reform Loan of US$300 million equivalent.
2.            In support of this request, this letter:
-    describes the content and specific objectives of the Government's medium-term
macroeconomic-stabilization and medium-term adjustment program;
*    descnbes the exernal financing plan that Peru has agreed with its major
creditors;
*    outlines the Govemnment's understanding of the process, conditions, and
timetable under which this Loan would be presented to the IBRD's Board, and
the loan agreement thereafter signed and made effective;
    describes the medium-term objectives and guidelines of trade policy, identifing
specific measures that will be undertaken by the time of signature of the loan
agreement and furer measures the Government intends to undetabke ,fouwing
loan signature; and
*    descrs the Govements undeng as regards reporting to the Bank on
progress in the macconomic adjustment and tade-refom programs.
3.            Once the proposed loan has been presented to, and apprved by, the Board of
the World Bank, this letter (which we understand will become part of the loan do tation)
will constitute an undetanding between the Goverment and the Bank on the conditions and
criteria according to which the agreement for the proposed loan can be siged and made
effecive



- 80 -
Page 2 of 18
L        Governments Stabilization Efot and Medium Term Adjustment Program
4.            On July 28, 1990, when the current administration assumed office, the country
onfronted a severe economic crisis and a serious institutional decay. Prices rose by 2,800 percent
in 1989 and accelerated to 60 percent per month by July 1990. GDP declined by 20 percent in
1988-89 and declined further as 1990 advanced. The country's net international reserves were
depleted, and havnng pursued a confrontational extemal debt strategy, the country was vfrtually
isolated from the international financial community. AU these factors contributed to make social
conditions increasingly difficult and led to intemal migration movements into major cities and to a
continued rise in polidcal violence and terrorism  Further, the resulting growing poverty and
deterioration in the distnbution of income provided a breeding ground for drug traffickng and
other criminal activities. Deep at the root of the crisis were massive fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits,
widespread wage and price controls and subsidies, a highly distorted exchange rate system,
negative interest rates and multiple distortions in the trade system and labor market.
5.            Faced vwth this dire situation, the Government, starting August 8, 1990, adopted
a comprehensive stabilization program designed to curb inflation and achieve a sustained
economic recovery, along with the setting of conditions for progress towards a viable medium-
term balance of payments situation and a reintegration into the global economy, including an
expansion of direct foreign investment. Further measures have been undertaken since the
beghiing of 1991 to strengthen the program and to accelerate the implementation of key
stucturn reforms.
6.            Throughout the implementation of the program, the Government has viewed
fiscal and monetary discipline as critical to the stabilization effort. Thus, it undertook measures
aimed at eliminating the non-financial Public Sectores domestic borrowmg by means of combining
large initial adjustments in gasoline and other public sector prices with the adoption of a tax
refrm (including several emergency taxes) and strict expenditure control, including the reduction
of employment in the public sector through a voluntary program of withdrawals. In 1991, the aim
is to achieve a primary budget surplus and a reduction in the current account deficit of the non-
financial Public Sector from 3.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 0.4 pe.rcent in 1991. Tis fiscal effort,
if combined with expected foreigp financing flkws, would allow for a modest increase in public
ivesatment.
7.            The Government intends to continue pursuing strict fiscal discipline over the
medium-term, and as a result, both the savings and the investment of the non-financial Public
Sector are expected to increase further. However, to ensure the sustainability of the fiscal effort,
the Govemment has embarked upon a major effort to restore tax revenues from the equivalent of
7.6 percent of GDP in 1991 to 13 percent of GDP by 199.5. In line with this objective, the
Govenment is proceeding with a number of reforms with a view to achieving before the end of
1991 a simplified tax system based on a few broad taxes (the value added tax, selective
consumption taxes on gasoline and a few other products, personal and business income taxes, a
tax On gross assets of business enterprises, a local property tax, and a simplified import tariff). To
suppleAent the change in the tax system, the Government is also pursuing broad ranging refonms
in ta and customs adminiation. In addition, the Giovemment has resolved to maitain the tax
contribution of the petoleum secto in real terms and would seek to maintain the real level of
other publc sector taiff in line with expected inflation. Furthermore, before the year ends, the



- 81 -
Page 3 of 18
Government plans to begin implementation of a public sector reform program which will enable it
to redefine the scope of Government activities, reduce the size of the Public Sector, recruit
trained personnel for seoior positions, and reassign or reduce personnel with appropriate
compensation. In the yeas to come, the Government also expcts to implement plans currently
under discussion for further reform public sector emoployment, the social security system, and the
state administration.
8.             The adherence to strict fiscal discipline has been coupled by stem credit
restraint by the Central Bank in the pursuit of a lower inflation path and the attainment of a
stronger net international reserves position. Also within the tight credit ihnits, the Government
has looked for ways in which to rediect credit flows towards private sector activities by means of
a phased reduction in marginal reserve requirements and by reducing subsidized lending,
particularly that of the Banco Agrario. These actions together with the establishment of market-
determined interest rates, by lfting the ptevious interest rate ceilings to non-biwding levels, are
expeted to promote a faster growth of financial savings and their more efficient allocation. To
improve monetary control, the Government will seek to widen the range of instruments to include
open market operations before year end. The Govemment intends to maintain monetary
restraint over the medium-term in line with the general objecdves of the program. Nevertheless,
it wfll endeavor to increase the scale and efficncy of financial intermediation through further
deregulation of financial markets and by further strengthening the framework of prudential
regulation and supervision. The Government also intends to reduce its participation in the
f cial system by means of a more limited and precise delineation of the financial actmivtes of
official development banks and by engaging in an action plan to privatize public sector
commercial banks.
9.             The macroeconomic adjustment process has been accompanied by the beginnig
of a far-reaching effort of modernization of the economy aimed at increasing its level of
competitiveness and efficiency. Important measures aimed at the hiberalization of different
maets have been adopted while at the same time, the provision of public goods is begig to
be made more efficient, coupled with the launching of a wide ranging pmvatization proces. The
Govemment has alread issued three major Laws in the areas of land tenure and investment,
labor relations, and the financial sector.
10.           In the aaian sector the Govemment issued two decrees in March 1991, later
incoWrprted in the Law of Agrarian Investment Promotion of August 1991. The main objective
of this legislation is to modify property rights, liberalizing previously existing limitations under the
1969 Agrarian Reform Law, thus allowing farmers to freely dispose of their property and
enhancing their access to credit markets. The new Law also promotes prvate corporate land
owehp  and investment and allows land cooperatives to become private estates. In addition,
the Government decided to move away from massive subsidies by dereguating the domestic
agriutural market and abolishing ENCIa import monopoly on wheat, corn, sugar, soybean-oil,
powderd milk and ferls Moreover, the Government decreed the liquidation of ECASA and
authorized ENCrs reorganization with the purpose of reducing the scale and scope of its
activities



- 82 -
Page 4 of 18
11.           In the area of labor. the Government has recognized the need to reform the old
regime which rendered the labor market inflexble and caused the expansion of the informal
sector. To this effect, the Goveament issued in March 1991 two Decrees regulating the existing
employment stabilit legilation by specifyg with greater clarity the cases for dmissal of
workers. In addition, under the new legislation, workers and firms have been provided with a
better system for the financial treatment of contributions towards workers' severance payments.
Fnally, firms have been offered wider possibilities for engaging workers on a temporary basis.
12.           For the financial sector the Government has already begun to adopt measures
aimed at promoting greater efficiency and increased monetization of the economy. The purpose
of the new Bankdng Law of April 1991, is to reduce the level of regulation in the sector. It
provides incentives for lower intermediation costs, enhancing competition by allowing for universal
banking and opening the credit market to foreign investment. In addition, the Law strengthens
prudential regulations specifying credit concentration ratios and new capital requirements. Also,
the LAw includes new provisions for dereguating the insurance industry, premiums have been
freed and the Govemment monopoly of the reinsurance business has been abolished.
13.           Since March 1991, the Government has started to redefine its role in the
economy, divesting itself of productive activity in order to redirect its scarce resources mainly
towards the provision of public goods and social infrastructure. A list of 23 public firms to be
privatized has already been published and the process of divestiture of some 180 firms is going to
be given special attention by the administration. Also, since July of 1991 the Government has
announced plans to sell majority stakes in steel, mining, air transport and telewommunications
enterprises Coupled with these efforts, the Government has proceeded to abolish the state
monopolies corresponding to ENCI, ECASA, gold trade, and PETROPERU's hydrocarbon
products imports and commercialzation.
14.           The Government is committed to encourage foreign investment in all sectors of
the economy. The liberalization of the capital account of the balance of payments now allows
foreigp investors to remit abroad aU net profits and royalties. Foreign investment can now be
under any corporate form or joint venture, and investors are allowed to purchase stock from
resdents and to invest in any sector except those otherwise reserved for nationals. Also Peru has
beome a member of the Multflateral Investment Guarantee Agency effective December 19, 1990,
and is actively promoting the resolution of current contractual disputes in the mining and energy
sectom
IL       Etea F cinu Plan
15.           As of July 1990, about two-thirds of Peru's approximately US$22 billion extemal
debt was in arrears and Peruvian commercial debt traded at 5 cents on the dolar In the secondary
markt The policy of slective default on external financial obligations followed by the previo
Government had brought significant losses to Peru in the form of reduced aid flows, paralyzed
development projects and foreign ivstment, increased vulnerability to trade restrictions in
creditor countries, and contributed to a major macroeconomic collapse. From the beginning, the
new Adminitration has made it clear that Peru would seek reintegration into the international
finanl commity. Payments of current obigatons falling due to the World Bank resumed in



- 83 -                              ANN 6
Page 5 of 18
October 1990, and to the IIB a month later, thus "freezigM the stock of arrears with these
institutions at the respectie levels prevailing on those dates. (Current debt service payments to
the IMF had already been initiated in September 1989, durng the previous Admiitration.)
Debt service payments to the three multilaterals, which average about US$41 milion per month,
equivaent to 14 percent of fiscal revenues, represent a major effort by Peru, given the level of
unfulfiled social demands, the cholera epidemic, and the countrs current low ability to pay.
IJterruptions in the payment of debt service to the IDB and the World Bank were registered
begining in March 1991, but the Govemment deposited these funds in escrow and released them
following the IMFs appwval of its Rights Accumuiation Program (RAP) on September 12
16.           The Government is committed to, and bas sought, support from its major
creditors for a growth-oriented three-stage debt work-out. The first stage, comprising the
clearance of arrears with multilateral creditors, has begun; the second stage, Peru's reschedulng
of its official bilateral debt with the Paris Club, was completed on September 17; the third and
final stage will consist of negotations to find a solution to Peru's debt overhang with commercial
banks The four conditions for the financing plan to be successful are that: (i) Peru comply with
the fisug-monetary targets unm/er the IMF program and implement a program of structura
reform  agreed with the IDB and the World Bank; (ii) the Support Group provide financing to
cover a two-year gap estimated at US$0.7 billion; (iii) Peru comply with current debt service
obligations to the multilaterals; and (iv) Peru abide by the terms of the rescheduling of Paris Club
debts.
17.           At the start of the debt worlout, arrears with the three mutilateral totaled
US$2.2 billon Under a financing plan agreed between Peru and the multflaterals, arres with
the IDB were cleared in September 1991, while arrears with the World Bank and the IMD would
be cleared by December 1992. Arreans clearance would be financed through a combination ot
bridge loans sgainst disbursements of multiateral institutions (which would be made immediately
after the clarance of arrears) and Peru's own balance of payments efforts.
18            The clearance of arrears owed to the =  took place on September 13, 1991.
Fiancing to clear 1DB arra  was facilitated by the disbursement of a recently approved US$325
million loan to Peru from the Latin American Reserve Fund (MFAR). On September 18, the
IDB approved a trade sector adjustment loan, and we understand that IDB's resumed lending to
Peru would consist of a further sector loan and four new project loans. The sector loan will
support the Govement's reform efforts in the area of the Financial Sector. A third sector loan,
posblly to support Agricultural refom and investment, is also foreseeable. In turn, the four new
projects cover the areas of Electricity, Health, Sanitation, and Roads. Total commitments under
these loans could reach up to US$1.1 billion, while disbursements prior to December 1992 could
total between US$700 to 800 million
19.           The T    approved a 16-month RAP in support of the Governments
macroenomic progm on September 1Z 1991. As you may recall, in 1990, the IMF established
a new policy to dealwith countries in atrears with the MF. Under this policy, termed Right
Accumulation Program (RAP), and upon satisfacury completion of the macroeconomic targets of
the program, a country can build up 'rights towards a fuly back-loaded disbursement following
the derance of arer  At the end of the program, remaining arrears can be cleared with a
short-term bridge loan aginst the IM  post-clearance disbursement. Total 'rights" to be



- 84 -
ANN-EX 6
Page 6 of 18
accumulated during the program amount to SDR625 million, equal to total arrears owed to the
IMF. The key performance targets under the IMP progrdm are: budget balance; zero flow of
Central Bank domestic credit to the public sector; a ceiling on total arrears with all creditors and
"frozen" arrears with multilaterals; and a US$225 mfllion increase in international reserves.
20.           As regards the World Bank we would also expect to be beneficiaries of its new
approach which was approved early in 1991 for dealing with arrears of countries implementing
strong adjustment policies and whose arrears are large. Under this policy, the World Bank can
develop and process adjustment loans during a "performance period" in which the country would
build a track record and establish a claim to future disbursements. Although these loans can be
brought to and approved by the World Bank Board, loan signing, effectiveness and disbursements
do not take place until aU arrears to the Bank have been fully cleared and the country has
established a satisfactory track record on adjustment measures. The World Bank intends to
prepare three such adjustment loans during the period from December 1991 to June 1992. These
three loans are expected to cover the areas of Trade, Structural Adjustment and Fmancial Sect.
Disbursement claims to be accumulated could total about US$900 million. As in the case of the
DMFs RAP, at the end of the performance period the country can mobilize a bridge loan to clear
its arredrs.
21.           As regards the situation with BilateraLs, the Government obtained a
rescheduling of Paris Club debt shortly after the RAP was approved by the IMF Board. The bulk
of Peru's external debt is with bilaterals and suppliers (48 percent), most of it with Paris Club
creditors. Peru received unprecedented cash-flow relief, during the consolidation period (October
1991 to December 1992), from its Paris Club creditors, in the form of rescheduling, deferment of
moratorium interest, and deferment of post-cutoff date arrears.
22.           Per's debt with commercial banks totals US$5.6 billion, more than 90 percent
of which is in arrear  Followng law suits brought by the commercial banks in 1989-90, the new
Government has negotiated an understandig with them under which it renounced recourse to
statute-of-limitations provisions in return for a suspension of the default proceedings that were
initiated in February 1990. However, Peru's current and foreseeable low ability to pay would not
appear to provide room for debt service payments to commercial creditors. In the context of a
continued strutural adjustment effort, Peru envisages the possibility of debt and debt semice
reduction schemes (ie. buyback schemes and/or outright reductk%n with enhancements).
23.           In order to cany out the strategy, outlined above, with each of Peru's major
creditor groups, Peru would face financing requirements of about US$18.8 billion for the two-year
period 1991-1992. We would expect that US$15.1 billion would be debt relief, US$0.4 billion
would be provided by the FLAR, US$ 2.6 bilion by post-clearance renewed disbursements of
multilaterals and US$0.7 billion by the Support Group. Financial support from FLAR was
disbursed and the first D)B loan approved in September 1991. The first tranche of the 1DB loan
has already been disbursed. World Bank and IMF disbursements are expected in December 1992.
The Support GToup was officially formed on June 7, 1991, under the co-ladesip of the U.S.
and Japan, and comprsng inter j, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Spain,
Sweden and Switzerlnd. By late August 1991, total commtments pledged by its members, in the
fom of grants or soft loans, reached apprmately US$1.1 billion. However, of this total, only
US$673 million were in the form of pure balance of payments support while the rest was in either



- 85 -
ANNEX6
Page 7 of 18
project that entailed additional non-programmed fiscal expenditures or grants channeled directly
to NGOs. Support Group disbursements are expected to take place through the end of 1992.
IIL The Process of Loan Preparation snd Peru's Clearance of its Arrears with the World Bank
24.             Ihe Government understands that the Board presentation of the loan we are
requesting will require the following conditions to have been met:
(a) the Bank's agreement to the macroeconomic stabilization program presented in
this letter (which the Government has already agreed with the IMF);V'
(b)  an External Fmancing Plan in place (as presented in this Letter), agreed among
the intemational financial institutions and the Support Group, which would
provide for full clearance of arrears to the Bank and the normalization of Peru's
relations with the IMF and the 1DB;
(c)  the Bank's agreement to the trade-reform program presented in this Letter, and
(d) Peru remaining current on its servicing of debt to the Bank currently falling due
(other than debt covered under (b) above), on the terms already agreed
between the Government and the Bank
25.             The Goverment further understands that, after its approval by the World
Bank's Board, the loan would not at that point be signed. The loan would be signed and declared
effective at the end of a 'performance penod" during which Peru would demonstrate the
sustainabilit of its macroeconomic stabilization and trade-policy-reform programs and the
continuing *iability of a Financing Plan agreed with the international financial institutions and the
Support Group. During this period, the Government would continue to follow the program of
macreconomic stabilization agreed with the IB and the Bank and to carry out specific trade-
policy measures agreed between it and the Bank. It would also undertake to supply the Bank
with relevant information on the progress of the macroeconomic-stabilization, trade-reform, and
customs reform programs (as detailed in paragraph 45 below) to enable the Bank to report
regulrly to its Boa  If, at the end of this period, the conditions governing this performance
period have been complied with, the loan would be signed. On effectiveness, it would then be
disbursed in its entrety, provided that the Bank has received and accepted the usual
documentation for disbursement by that date. The performance perod for this loan would not
J/ The Sank milt monitor the macroecnomic-stabilization prograu in the light of the performmnce parameters
set out in paragraphs x 6 to 8 above. The lank witl consult with the IMF on the progress of the program and
mill pay particular attention in evaluating macroeconomic performance, to the following reasonable ranges
fwr specific indicators In 192s
Central Government current tax revenue: at least 9.0 rercent of OOP
Primry Balance of the non-financial public sector: at least 0.6 percent of GOP
Rate of creation of monetary base (Decaiber, 19°1, to December, 1992): no mare than 40 percent
Stock of other Contral Bank monetary liabilities in Soles: uD to 0.1 x monetary base



- 86 -
ANNEX6
Page 8 of 18
end before December, 1992, and would run concurrently with the period of the IMFs Rights
Accumulation Program
26.           During the performance° period, the Govemment is committed to continue to
service debt faling due to the Bank, undertaking to provide debt-servicing treatment to the Bank
no less favorable than that provided to the IMF. Before loan signature, arrears to the World
Bank would need to have been completely cleared.
27.           The Government further understands that (as will be reflected in the Loan
Ageement), if a lapse of time onzurred between signing and effectiveness, effectiveness would
require that during this period the Bank continue to be satisfied with the implementation of the
trade-reform and macroeconomic stabilization programs and the external financing plan, as set
forth in this letter.
IV. The Govermen  TiadReform Prom
28.           The Government considers trade reform to be a key element of its efforts to
reform the economy in order to modernize the productive structure and lay the groundwork for
vigorous grwth based on the efficient use of resources. As well as hberalizing other markets and
maintaining a consistent macroecnomic framework, the trade reform is designed to shift the
economy from inefficient production addressed mainly to the local marky t toward export activity
and efficient import substitution. The long-term, comprehensive nature of the trade reforms
undertaken by the Goverment will ensure the competitiveness needed by a small economy such
as Peru's in order to generate dynamic growth of production and employment through the
expansion of investment opportunities and active integration with the global economy.
29.           The trade reforms have been implemented concurrently with the stabilization
effort underken by the new administration to counteract one of the longest bouts with runaway
inflation ever recorded in the world. The trade reforms were timed to provide support for the
stabilization process Together with the exchange rate unification and float, the elimination of
price contols and the drastic adjustment in prices and public utility rates, the trade reforms are to
contribute to restoring relative prices that are compatible with those prevailing on the
international market, while at the same time helping to brng inflation down to world lavel
30.           The exchange and tra  systems inherited by the admnstration that took office
in 1990 edhibited serious distortions owing to inconsistent discretional behavior by the State.
Within a fixed exchange rate approach, multiple rates were established according to a system of
foreign exchange allocation and differential payment for various export categories. The outcome
of such poicies was that Peru came to have at least ten exchange rates, and one of the least
tranpaet and most arbitAy exchange systems ever seen. This system generated enormous
implicit tanms on variou export sors and abnormal revenues on certain imports, thereby
promoting speculation, leaving local production extremely vulnerable and giving rise to coruption
within the public  ista
31.           Simlarly, the tarff system showed a bigh level of nominal protection and
fragmentation, with over SO differet tarif  The tariff system was applied together with a broad
rae  of exemptions, bans, import monopolies, import permits, and a long list of non-tariff



- 87 -
Page 9 of 18
administrative controls designed to grant additional discretional protection to specific sectors. in
spite of the high nominal protection, collections of import duties were low because of the
proUfration of exemptions.
32.           In August 1990, the exchange rate was unified and allowed to float with limited
Central Bank intervention. Free converdtilty of the inti was established, and current and capital
account transactions on the balance of payments were hberalized. The obligation to surrender to
the Central Bank foreign exchange receipts from exports was eliminated, as well as the
innumerable restictions on foreign exchange holdings and use inside and outside the county.
33.           One undesirable consequence of the stabilization program adopted by the
Government to attack runaway inflation has been a revaluation of the currency, which has caused
problems in giving the productive apparatus a new export orientation and generating immediate
impetus for economic growth. The major economic adjustment of August 1990, in generating
high corrective inflation, had the effect of bringing about an abrupt drop in the money supply and
an increase in real interest rates when inflation subsequently fell substantially. The greater
preferene for local currency liquidity, together with the Central Bank's decision not to finance
the non-financial public sector through currency issue, have caused the real exchange rate to
appreate considerably. Ti situation became more acute with the recent repatriation of capital
held by Peruvians aboad, motivated by high interest rates for local and foreign currency on the
local capital market and the need for business to obtain worlkng capital given the prevailing
recession.
34.           The return of capital has occurred despite a floating exchange rate system that
does not guarantee a particular nominal exchange rate. However, the revaluation process is now
showing sdns of reversing itselL FSt, interest rates are already falling thanks to greater
cnfiden  tat inflation will be beaten. Second, the Central Bank has proposed that clear
monetary policy goals be set in combination with efforts to effect a sustainable rehabilitation of
the public finances. In addition, the Central Bank has taken steps to raise miimum required
reserves and has created new financial instruments to enhance its monetary control by allowing
greater mterenuon on the exchange market. The Government remains determined to keep a
free exchange system, and is convinced that the current problem with local currency revaluation
wil be resolved through a renewed attack against inflation by setting transparent monetary goals
and strengthening the fiscal situation.
35.           The trade reform has evolved in three stages. In the fist, beginning in August
l990, a maximum tariff of 50 percent was set while the exdsting system of tariff surcharges - which
in effect made the ceiling 76 percent - was maintained. Also in the first stage, a minimum tariff
of 10 percent was set, which affected the system of exemptions, and the list of banned imports
was drasticaly reduced to 13 tariff positions, eliminating the prior import permit During the
second stage, begnng in late September 1990, tariffs were reduced to three, namely 15, 25, and
50 percent while a 10 percetage point surchage was retained on the 25 and 50 percent
categories At this point, the Government announced its intention to continue lornng tarffs to
a single rate of 15 percent by ijnuary 1995. In early 1991, however, it was clear that economic
agents lackd confidence in the permanence of the tariff measures, mainly because of the delay in
liftg the temporary 10 pcent surcharge and the establishment of a special reduced-rate import
procedure for iron and steel industry inputs. In this context, the Govemnment accelerated the



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 18
process, eliminating in a third stage (in March 1991) the 50 percent tariff and applying the 15
percent rate to the majority (81 percent) of tariff positions.
36.           Also during this third stage of the trade reform, the Government eliminated
import registers and state monopolies on imports of food commodities and inputs, and streamlined
health requirements for agricultural imports, sanitary requirements and quality control in the
health sector, and technical quality standards for industrial products. It also eliminated non-tariff
barriers such as restrictions on he purchase and sale of vessels in the transportation and
communication sectors, and the elimination of the state monopoly on the sale and import of fossil
fuels and their byproducts in the energy and mining sectors. Also, to counteract the effects of
subsidies applied by other countries to agricultural production and e;ports, compensatoty
surcnarges were introduced on imports of dairy inputs, wheat, corn, rice, sorghum, wheat flour,
sugar, and pasta. These surcharges act as specific duties that vary according to intemational
market prices. Also approved was a rule governing the application of countervailing and
antidumping duties.
37.           Under its new export policy, the Govemment lowered export subsidies
(CERTEX) in August 1990 and eliminated both them and the subsidized interest rate for
financing of nontraditional exports (FENT) in November 1990. In March 1991, export
restrictions were eliminated, a simplified procedure was adopted for the reimbursement of indirect
taxes, and the temporary admission system was modified. For fiscal reasons, however, the tax on
non-traditional exports has been retained, at rates of 5 to 10 percent.
8.            The trade reform that began in August 1990, has included the reform of the
institutions that administer foreign trade. In August 1990, it was decided to dismantle the Foreign
Trade Institute, formerly responsible for setting policy and applying controls on foreign trade, a
process that was concluded in July 1991. Under the country's cnstitution, the executive branch is
responsible for Letting tariff levels and regulating trade in general, a task carried out by the
Ministry of the Economy and Finance. However, the Ministry of Industry shares certain functions
having to do with export promotion and trade negotiations, through an Interministerial
Commission chaired by the President of the Cabinet Council or his delegate. The National
Customs Authority (SUNAD) is in the process of reorganization, having substantially modified
procedures for clearing imports and exports through customs. The new procedures are intended
to simplify and modernize customs through a better allocation of resources and a significant
investment in training.
39.        .   he customs reorganization program also includes a staff reduction through
incentives for early separation and mandatory retirement. To date 500 of the 2,700 customs
employees have resigned voluntarily, while competitions have been held to hire some 100
university graduates who must first pass a training program. Also as part of the reorganization,
legiation has been passed to expedite clearing goods in customs warehouses, giving private
customs agents the authority to calculate duties and make payments, and leaving staff to
concentrate on reviewing documents and selective valuations. Fmally, there are new regulations
on the administrtion of the temporary admission system to be used by the export sector. Under
the new system, payment of duties is suspended upon presentation by the exporter of an
application to customs and to the ministry governing the sector concerned.



- 89 -
Page 11 of 18
40.            In the area of ports and ocean transport, steps have been taken to reduce the
cost of port activity substantially by elminating the monopoly on loading and unloading operations
and authorzng companies and cooperathes to carry out such operations from July 1991 at all
Peruvian ports Also eliminated by legislative decree are all the administrative and legal
restrictions and obstacles that impeded free access to international ocean routes and xraffic.
Shipments of export and import cargos have been freed and the cargo restriction in favor of ships
under the national flag has been lifted.
41.            Ihe Govemment intends to consolidate and advance the trade reform in order
to establish a permanent framework for dynamic trade development that will be consistent vinth
the aim to promote greater efficiency and higher levels of economic growth Maintaining the
curret foreign exchange-rate policy and strengthening fiscal policy will serve in turn to shore up
a stable economic policy over the long term, based on the principles of free trade, free access by
economic agents to all kinds of trade activity without distinction as to the type of goods or
economic sector, thus ensuring fiuI privatesctor participation in all economic activity. A vital
part of the consolidation process was to pass into law, in September 1991, all tarifE, non-tariff and
admlnistratie reform measures, in the form of a legislative decree with the force of law, under
specal powers delegated by the legislative branch.
42.            The legislation is intended also to ensure the permanence of the foreign trade
reforms, in the spirit of the principles mentioned. Specifically, the trade system is prohibited from
diciminating among productive activties, whether exports or imports. Export activities will
permanently enjoy rights to the drawbacks they currently have access to, and, as the fiscal
situation permits, these rights wil be etended to cover other indirect taxes which exporters
cannot currently get back General surcharges and other taxes on imports are to be avoided by
the Governm t, as are other levies other than customs duties and the general sales tax  It is
obligatory to comply with technical standards, sanitary requirements and all regulations in such a
way that they do not function as non-tariff protective measures discriminating against imports.
The State will ensure that protective measures against unfair competition (anti-dumping levies and
countervailing duties) are not used to introduce undue protection to local production.  Fmally,
furthe legislation will be pased to make permanent the ban on granting customs exemptions and
reductions.
43.            In December, 1990, the Government announced its intention to unify the tariff
structure at a single rate of 15 percent by January 1995. Since this time, substantial progress in
negotiations betwee the member countries of the Andean Group has led to a decision in
principle (on December 5 1991) of the Andean Presidential Council to create a customs union.
This would require Peru to apply a common external tariff (which has not yet been negotiated)
from January 1 1992. The tariff would have no more than five rates, ranging from 0 to 20
pert, and the number of rates would fall to no more than four (ranging from 0 to 15 percent)
by Januaty 1 1994.  , for any reason, the steps necessary to implement the common external
tariff, as it has been ageed in pdnciple, do not appear likely to be taken within a reasonable
perod, the Govenment intends to maintain its current objectve of a single tarff rate. Also, if
the fiscal situation permits, the Government will eliminate export taxes and attempt to provide
equitable scal tatment to all exports, both traditional a id nontraditional



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 18
44.           Consistent with the above reform program, the Government is committed to
carry out the schedule of trade-policy and customs-reform actions in Appendix A.
V. Monitoring of the Macroeconomic and Trade-Reform Programs and the Fmancing Plan
45.           In order for the Bank to be kept informed of the progress of the trade reform
and of the conditions that would govern the proposed loan and to form the basis for a continuing
dialogue on trade and macroeconomic policy, the Government will provide information to the
Bank on the macroeconomic-stabilization, trade-reform, and customs-reform programs according
to the schedule set forth in the attached Appendix B.
V. Conclusion
46.           The Government will continue to exchange views with the World Bank in the
areas covered by this project and to discuss the progress made in implementing the proposed
reforms.
47.           The trade policies described in paragraphs 28 to 44 above are those that the
Goernment is now implementing, or plans to implement in the near future. These policies will
also be the basis for Peru's position in any international negotiation related to trade issues. In
the event that these negotiations result in an international legal instrument, the Pennian
Government understands that the Bank could request the relevant information so as to decide if
this instrument has, or could have, a significant negative impact on the program agreed in ftis
Letter.
48.           Fmaliy, I would like to reiterate that the Government is committed to carig
forward its trade-policy reform program and to continuing its policy dialogue with the World
Bank. In consideration of the trade reforms already undertaken, within the context of Peru's
overall program of economic stabilization and reintegration into the international financial
community, the Government requests your favorable consideration of this request for a Trade
Policy Reform Loan.
Yours sincerely,
/S/ Carlos Bolofia Behr
Minister of Economy and Fmance



- 91 -
ANNZ 6
Page 13 of 18
bppondix A
b%2=IJL1 OETR E POLIC AND AI)MINSITRAON
ACIOLNS TC BE  UNDERTAKEN
Polies to bt. Maintained. or Actions Undertaken. by Time of Board Presentation
(a)  EVcha=ie ra=  pogy. Maintenance of the convertibility of the local currency at
a single rate of exchange for all external transactions.
(b)  Tarff         Not to increase the level of protection offered by the tariff
sucture beyond tJat effective on July 5, 1991, unless and until a new tarff is
implemented in accordance with the December 5, 1991, statement ("Acta de
Barahona") of the VI Andean Presidential Council
Not to increase the level of protection offered by the tariff structure beyond
that effective on July 5, 1991, will require the following:
(i)    Maintenance of no more than three tariff rates;
(Ii)    No tarff position currently at 25% to be assigned a tariff any higher
than 25% or ower than 15%;
(iii)    No taiff position currently at 15% to be amigned a tariffany higher or
lower than 15%;
(iv)    The number and coverage of tariff positions now subject to the 5%
rate not to be increased;
(v)    No tarf position currently at 5% to be assigned a tariff rate any lower
than 5%;
(vi)    Not to utilize a possible reclassification of the tariff code from the
curent NABANDINAM nomenclature to any other, if such a
reclassification would have the effect of granting additional protection
to any product.
Aleratively Peru may tmplement a common external tarff under the aegis of
the Andean Gtoup, prvided that it is substantially in accordance wMth the
Decmber 5, 1991, statement of the VI Andean Presidential Council, which
provides for no more than five rates, the highest at 20%.
Nommml/tum Anci de BUnssas pma el Gnpo Andio.



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 18
(c)  Tarif exemptio   Not to reintroduce any exemption (frasauia or
exonei) to the application of the tariff code except: those that result from
interational agreements; and those allowed in export-support programs
established under D.S. 034-91-EF (temporary admission), and DS 052-EF
(rawback), internamiento temporaL and replenishment of stocks.
(d)  AgQFral surhar. The Goernment will not expand the surcharge scheme
beyond the 18 NA3ANDINA positions listed in D.S. 0016-91 AG. In the
calculation of the minimum Eo.b. price for each of the 18 NABANDINA items
under the surcharge scheme, several guidelines will be followed: (i) the floor
price wBi be equal to the arithmetic average of the international price registered
in each of the 60 previous months; (ii) the relevant interiational reference fo.b.
price for tariff items will be taken fi-om a recognized international publication
agreed upon with the Bank. The methodology for calculating minimum prices
will be published and strictly folowed thereafter. In addition, the Goenment
wM pubfish monthly. the minimum £o.b. price; the series of 60 previous
monthly recordings of the relevant international price; and the source of the
latter. Thi condition does not apply to the importation of powdered milk for
winch the surcharge should be specific and would have a ceiling of VS$496 per
ton for powdered milk and US$614 per ton for dehydrated mflk fat.
(e)  Fet    zones. Any new, or expanded existing, free trade zone will be
authorized to sell finished goods or inputs only within said zones or outside of
Peru. Any good or input coming from these free trade zones may be sold in the
domestic market if duties and other taxes are paid.
(*f) No~n-tariffiEi§n
(i)        Refrain from using reference prices and mirnmum value
(aforou) prices as a way of protecting domestic production.
Mhis condition wfll not apply to the customs categories
included in D.S. 0016-91 ACt.
(ii)       Not to reintroduce non-taiff barriers on imports or exports
(including hcensing, prohibitions, monopolies, quantitative
resictions, controls or prohibitions on second-hand
imports, national-content coefficients, prior-registration
requirements), nor domestic trade restrictions further to
those that prevaied on July 5, 1991. TIis condition does
not apply to the dipositions of Legislative Decree No. 653
and the subsequent amendment to Legislative Decree No.
668 regarding powdered milk within the context of
promoting inhestment in the agricultural sector.
(iii)       Agree with the Bank on tersw of reference for a study to
develop consistent criteria and corresponding regulations
assuring that health and fitosanitary regulations and



- 93 -
Page 15 of 18
technical standards (particularly those administerd by the
Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Industry) are applied
impartially, without the aim of granting non-tadff protecton
to local producers.
() AAnti-dumping code. Agree wit;i the Bank on terms of reference for a study to
recommend amendments to the Code (D.S. 133-91-Er), and to propose a draft
for the Code's implementing regulations, in line with the Government's
commitment to amend several aticles of the Code so thzat it dons not become
an instrument of unjustified protection for domestic produces
(h) Exoort taxes and subsidies.
(i)        Not to raise or increase the number of current export taxes
or extend them to other products.
(ii)        Not to introduce any fiscal or financial measures    the
effect of providing direct export subsidies or providing
exporters access to domestic credit - credit funded via
domestic savings - at below domestic interest rates for loans
of comparable risk, maturity and co11ateraL
(I)  InstittoZn,al rfurmt Ensure that the dismantling of all of the trade-regulatoiy
functions of the Instituto de Comercio Exteric  'ICE) has been completed and
that those functions of ICE having been transm.ed to other government
agnies do not include any related to the control of imports or exports in any
rpect, including the granting of . elective or global import duty exemptions for
Ny type of domestic activity or the establishment of export taxes, subsidies or
selctive export probibitions
Uj)   Qutma'
(i)    agree on an Action Plan to restructure the Customs Superintendency
(SUNAD) and to reform the legal framework of customs; and
(ii)    comply with the first-phase conditions listed in the Action Plan for
restructung Customs.
21 lhs Acin Plan is conted in Plan do Accidn am el Sisde  de Aduanas de Pwn' Anexo IV of
do&wU  of tla hta-Amwican Dw.dlmnt Dank, PerS: Pr o de Ajqst dd Scam de Com
g                         10 S      , 1991.



- 94 -
ANNEX
Page 16 of 18
2.       Ac&ons to be Undtaken by Mabc 19S9
A goneral codition to be met by this tih'e is satisfactoty progress in the execution of
the trade policy reform program, including the non-reersa of the policy actions previously
required for Board presentation. Further conditions in each of the areas of the program are
listed below.
(a) Tag           PElinination of the S% tariff rate and establishment of a two-tier
tariff  ucture. All tariff items thitt were previously subject to the 5% rate wM
be subject to the 15% rate.
IE, on or around March 1992, it appeas likely that a new tariff will be
implemented, during 1992, in accordance with the December 5, 1991, statement
of the VI Andean Presidential Council, the Govemment and the Bank will
consult with a view to postponing or cancelling the elimination of the 5% tarff
rate.
(b)  AWcOtural surcharges. Agree with the Bank on the terms of reference for a
study to evaluate the surcharge scheme (paragraph l(d) above).
(c)  Non-tfaia    Agree with the Bank on the guidelines and principles to be
applied in implementing the results of the study of health md fitosanitary
regulations and technical standards agreed upon by Board presentation (para
1(f)(ii) above).
(d)  A     W       code, Enact the amendments to Decree D.S. 133-91-EF, based
on the recommendations of the study commissioned and agreed up on wth the
Bank, so that the Anti-dumping Code does not become an instrument of
unjustified protection (para l(g) above).
(e)  oms. Implement second phase conditions of the Acion Plan for
restructung Customs.
3.       Actions to be Undertaen by June. 1992#
A generd condition to be met by this time is satisfactory progress in the eaecution of
the trade policy reorm program, including the non-reversal of the policy actions previously
requied. Further conditions in each of the areas of the program are listed below.
I/ This date is inkdictve, rather tha binding, as fart as furthr condition ar concerned.
41I Ths dae* is indicative, rather tha binding, as far as further conditions ar concerned.



- 95 -
Page 17 of 18
(a)  turil surthag   Agree with the Bank on the guidelines for the
implementation of the recommendations of the study on the surcharge scheme
(paragraph 2(b) above).
(b)  No-ab          . Appropnate implementation of reorms to health and
phytosanitaiy regulations and technical standards in line with agreed guidelies
(para 2(c) above).
(c)    ms. Implement the third phase conitions of the Action Plan for
restruuring Customs.
4.       Actions to be UndMert    by September. 1992k
A geal condition to be met by this time is satisfactory progress in the execution of
the trade policy reform program, including the non-reversal of the policy actions previous
required. A further condition is as follows.
(a)  Agical surcharges. Appropriate implementation of reforms to the
surcharge scheme in line with the agreed guidelines (para. 3(a) above).
5.       Acions to be Undetakn by December. 1992
A genea condition to be met by this time is satisfactoty progress in the execution of
the trade policy reform prognam, including the non-reversal of the policy actions previously
required.
gI This ddai b dcatve, rtr ta bindin,t, as for as fwre conditn a



- 96 -
Page 18 of 18
&Mpen. B
SCHEDULE OF REPORTW.Cv
1.            dhe macroeconomic adjustment program: monthly povision of monthly data
on:
(i)        Central Goernment current tax revenue;
(i)         Primary Balance of the non-financial public sector (on a
v.guartcry basis);
(ii)        Rate of creation of monetary base;
(iv)        Stock of other Central Bank monetary lhabflities in Soles.
2.            Trade Reform:    quarterly prvision of
(i)        all policy documents and customs communications relatng
to: exchange-rate and trade and treuivalent measures
(including health & fitosanitary regulations and technical
standards which affect foreign trade, documents relatig to
hearn  of the Anti-dumping commission, documents
related to regional integration).
(il)       monthly exchange-rate- and trade-related statistics:
(il)        imports and exports by commodity (and advance customs
statistics relating to trade through Callao and JorBe Chavez
airport);
(iv)       import tax colnection (tariffi and IGV tax separately) and
export tax collection (by export commodity);
(v)        for agricultural-surcharge products: reference pices and
comparable current world prices; value and volume of
imports (cif) and domestically-produced sales;
3.            Cusoms       : the Bank wil receive the same report, on the same schedule,
as thoe to be sent to the Inter-Amercan Development Bank (as specified in
Paragraph 3.25 of Annex VM-A of Perd Pdstamo de Ajuste del Sector de
4    45QQ- 9): Pouet de,              10 Septmber, 1991).



- 97 -
Page 1 of 1
LIST OF PROJECT DOCU4ENTS
Abusada, Roberto, La Reforma de la Polftica Para-Arancelaria Peruana (1990-1991). September,
1991
Abusada, Roberto, El Comportamiento de los Precios Luego de la Apertura de la Economfa
Peruana October, 1991
Acta de Barahona Act of the VI Andean Presidential Council, 5 December, 1991
Ing. Jorge A Cavallotti, Procedimientos Recomendados para Aceterar los Desembolsos de los
Pr&stamos de Ajuste Propuestos para Perd. September 16, 1991
Ing. Jorge A. Cavallotti, Perdl: Informe de Evaluaci6n del Sistema de Adquisiciones de Bienes y
Servicios v Obras Civiles. September 16, 1991
ECONSULT, S.A., Avance en la Desregulacidn del Comercio Exterior Peruano. August, 1991.
Inter-American Development Bank, Perd: Prdstamo de Aiuste del Sector de Comercio (PE0029):
Propuesta de Prdstamo September 10, 1991
PNUD - Banco Mundial - ?rograma de ExpLnsi6n del Comercio, Perd: Hacia una Economfa M-a
Abierta draft, August, 1991
Rodrfguez, Carlos, Foreign Exchange Market, June, 1991



- 99 -
Page 1 of 2
STAlUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A. SUMtkAR  UA M            O]EgR1F LOA0N
(As of November 30, 1991)
Amount less
lM       YAK ]mc E oseusI1on                                                iluieakum1
(US$ Millions)
Fifty-eight (58) loans fidly disbursed  1151.88
2091      1982   Republic of Peru       Transpmt          93.0                50.39
2396      1984   Republic of Peru       Rura Dev.         40.0                32.80
Total:                                             1284.88
Of which has been repaid:                        448.44
Total now outsanding:                               836.44
Amount sold:                       18.31
of which has been repaid:       iL31
Total now held by Bank:                             818.13
Total undisbursed:                                                       1L12



- 100 -
Page 2 of 2
B. STAT3MN-T OF IFC INVESrYENTS
(As of November 30, 1991)
Amount in US$ million
Date BoMrower              Te of Busineys                    ln        i     in
1990 BUENAVENTURA          Metal Ore Mining                    .00    1.01    1.01
1979                       Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             2.00    .96     2.96
1983                                                          4.00    .00     4.00
1986                                                          .00    1.00     1.00
1986 CARISA                Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             6.00    .50     6.50
1962 CEMENTO ANDINO   Mfg of Cement Lime & Plaster            2.46    .20     2.66
1982 CONENHUA              Mfg of Electric Light & Power      4.50    .00     4.50
1975 CUAJONE               Non-Ferrous Ore Mining            15.00    .00    15.00
1960 DURISOL               Mfg of Fabric Metal Products       .30    .00      .30
1960 FERTILIZANTES         Mfg of Fertilizers & Pesticides    3.19    .00     3.19
1962                                                          .90    .00      .90
1960 LUREN                 Mfg of Non-Metallic Mineral PR      .28    .00     .28
1985 MiNERA REGINA         Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             6.08    .24     6.32
1986 ORCOPAMPA             Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             9.00    .00     9.00
1964 PACASMAYO             Mfg of Cement Lime & Plaster       1.60    .49     2.09
1967                                                          .00    .01      .01
1983 PALMESA               Mfg of Vegetable & Animal Oil     15.00    .00    15.00
1986 PODEROSA              Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             3.30    .00     3.30
1960 REUNIDAS              Mfg of Fabric Metal Products        25     .00     .25
1980 SIMSA                 Non-Ferrous Ore Mining             2.7     .50     3.20
1985                                                          4.00    .00     4.00
1982 SOGEWIBSE             Leasing CompaDies                  3.00    .14     3.14
Total gross commitmen_ :                               83.56    5.04    8&60
Less cance1lations, terminations
and sales:                                           762252Q
Total commitments now held by IFC:                      7.31    2.27    9.58
Total undisbursed:



- 101 -
ANNEX9
Page 1 of 5
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.         bThe new liberalized trade regime requires procedures, skills, and institutions which
differ markedly from those applied under the previous dmitration. A technical assistance program
is proposed to finance policy studies, seminars and training and institutional reforms to advance the
Government's efforts in foreign trade liberalization.
2.          lle cost of the technical assistance program is estimated at about $350,000, consisting
of: (a) $150,000 for policy studies ard seminars and training; and (b) t*00,000 for support to
MICITI's trade promotion and international negotiations activities.l/ . ;ese activities will be
financed from the Japanese Grant Facility for structural reforms. The Bank would act as executing
agency for the technical assistance program. Both the MEF and the MICITI will assign counterparts
to coordinate the technical assistance program with the Band The program will be made effective
following the finalization of the legal agreement for the Japanese Grant Facility between the
Peruvian Government and the Bank.
A. Poliy Studies and Seminars/Training: $150,000
Study on Amendments to the Anti-Dumping Code
3.          The study would recommend amendments to the recently established anti-dumping
and anti-subsidy code (D.S. 133-91-EF issued on June 13,1991) and for its implementing regulations,
in line with the Government's commitment to amend the Code so that it does not become an
instrument of unjustified projection. This involves, inter alia. establishing: (a) the need for an 'injury
tests in all anti-dumping claims; (b) penalties for claims that turn out to be unfounded; and (c)
transparent procedures in which the interests of consumers and of other Peruvian firms are weighed
against those of the applicant firm. The terms of reference for the study should be agreed by the
Bank and the Government by Board presentation of the Trade Policy Reform Loan, and amendments
to the Code, based on study recommendations should be enacted by March, 1992.
Evaluation of the Scheme of Agricultural Tariff Surcharges
4.          The study would review the objectives and functioning of the surcharge system as
created under D.S. 0016-91-AG (and subsequent modifications). The study would also include the
impact of pviions, relevant to products falling under the system, contained in D.L 653, Legislative
Decree on Agricultural Investment. The study would ascertain the economic effects of the system
on Peruvian piJucts (including regional impact - on Costa, Sierra, and Selva) and on consumes
(especially the poor) and recommend modifications to the system. Ihe terms of reference for the
study should be agreed by the Bank and the Government by March, 1992, and guidelines for
implementing the study's recommendations should be agreed by June, 1992.
IL In addition, the Bank plans to asist Cae MICMI in developing local industries ($70,000) and promong
torism industry ($30,000) dtough the same Japaue Grant Facility.



- 102 -
Page 2 of 5
Study on Policy for Non-Taiff Barriers
5.          The study would develop criteria and corresponding regulations assuring that health
and phytosanitary regulations and technical standards (particularly those administered by the
Ministries of Agriculture, Health, and Industty) are applied impartially, without the aim of granting
non-taiff protection to local producersm The terms of reference for the study should be agreed by
the Bank and the Govemment by Board presentation, and guidelines and principles to be applied in
imnlementing the results of the study should be agreed by March, 1992.
Study on Regional Economic Integration Options for Pegu
6           The objectives of the study is to help Peruvian policy makers evaluate the economic
osts and benefits of regional-traa;ng options currently under di£ ¢r"n (particularly Andean Pact
propostis) and help them identify critical areas for negotiation. The study would be particulary
concemed about the compatibility of regirnal arrangements with the overall econonic reform process,
including trade-policy refonn. It would be organized around the following topics: history of regional
economic integration arrangements in the Andean Group and within ALADI; current regional-
economic-integration options; current and planned economic reforms; and the interactions of regional
integration, overal economic reform, and gains from trade.
Trade Policy Sminar an dIrainint
7.          Government officials, private executives, the press and the wider community would
benefit from a greeter understanding of the consequences of the Government's new trade policy
measures or of accession to GAIT. To facilitate an informed public debate, it is important to
organize public seminars on the implications for Peru of trends in international trade, trade policy
teform and experiences of other nations, the GJATT system, and the Andean Pact The seminar
would feature speakers from relevant organizations and draw upon several lines of research and
technical expertise of the World Bank. Funds would be also made available to provide training on
the above topics (both in Peru and abroad) for relevant Government officials
B.    Institutnal Reforms: Support to the MICM  for Export Promotion and International
Tradc Negotiations: S2200.0
ackgound
&           During the past decade, Peru's experience in the promotion of exports had mixed
tesults. In the first attempt to liberalize Peru's foreign trade regime, the government created the
Fondo Promocion de Exportaciones (FOPEX) in 1979. FOPEX made important contributions to
developing Peru's export capacity in close collaboration with the private sector. However, in late
1986, under the previous Government, it was absorbed into the Ilstituto de Comercio Exterior
(ICE). For various reasons, ICE was bureaucratized and became the focal point of discretionary
import controls and export subsidies.
9.          In a renewed attempt to advance foreign trade liberalization, the Fujimond
Goverment decided to de-activate ICE in August, 1990. In June, 1991, ICE's assets and
promotional functions were transferred to the MICITI, and most of its staff were released. With



103 -
Page 3 of S
participation from the private sector, the MICMTI plans to establish a small, but efficient group of
professionals in charge of export promotion and advisory services for international trade
negotiations. On September 14, 1991, D.L 684 was issued, authoring the constitution of a new
association. The members of the new association (to be called Asociacion para la Promocion y
Desarrollo de las Exportaciones del Peru - PROMOEX) would include both the Govenment
(represented by the MICM) and leading industry associations: la Asociacion de Exportadores
(ADEX), la Sociedad Nacional de Industriales (SNI), and la Sociedad Nacional de Exportadores
(SNE). A Supreme Decree, which defines the organization and operative procedures of
PROMOEX, is being crafted, and its constitution is to be ratified by the end of September, 1991.
i "NOMOEx FunctiomnsI
10.         The major objectives of PROMOEX are to: (a) promote and develop Peruvian
exports in general; (b) enhance the quality and image of Peruvian products and services; and (c)
promote domestic and foreign investments for export-oriented activities. To this end,
PRO4OEX will: organize international trade fairs, trade and commercial missions, and other
events; collect dataminfoans tion, undertake market research, and produce various publications for
the use of exporters; and provide technical advice on international negotiations. It will consist of
three functional departments--information and studies, promotion and development, and
intemational trade negotiations (see the appendix to this annex for its organization chart).
PROMOEX's basic activities will be financed by the three private agencies, ADEX, SNI and
SNE.
Technical Agsistance for the MICIT
11.         Technical assistance for the MIClTI ($200,000) aims to foster the organization c'
PROMOEX and its capacity for market research, compilation of data and statistics, and
intemational trade negotiations. It will finance senior professional staff of PROMOEX and short-
term consultants (both national and external) as follows:
(a)   Support to PROMOEX's professionals: @$2,500/mo. x 48 = $1?A.000
*   General Manager: responsible for overall administration, including
development of its work program, financial management, and coordination
with el Consejo DirectivoL
*   Manager for information and studies: responsible for market research,
compilation and disseminatior of trade information/ statistics, and librahy,
2J PROMOEX will be govened by el Consjo Directivo, consting of two   esetativ of dhe Govemet
ad _       ves of the member agences. El Cmose3o Directivo will met at least evey month. It will
assum finald ponsibility for development of its anal work progrm., financial  pusmnd
and ote key policies.



- 104 -
Page 4 of S
*   Manager for promction and development: organization of trade fairs and
events, development of design and fashion, promotion of sector activities,
e.g., textile, foods, agro-fisheries, metal mining, chemicals, and art crafts;
and
*   Mianager for providing advisory services for international trade
negotiations: responsible for Latin American regional integration, bilateral
negotiations, and multilateral negotiations.
(bj   Support to short-term national and external consultants: $8000_0 Consultants
would assist in planning and implementing the PROMOEX work program auAd
provide technical training for its staff.
12          The Bankes technical assistance would complement the support to be provided by
other donors The IIDWs Trade Reform Loan (signed on September 18, 1991) includes a
$400,000 technical assistance program to PROMOEX in supoort of short-term national and
internatioral consultants, purchase of computers, and other operational expenses. The European
liconomic Community and several bilateral donors (for instance, GTZ, the German Company for
techncial Cooperation, and JEIRO, the Japan Externa! Trade Organization) have indicated their
interests in assisting in the organization of trade fairs and commercial missions.



- 105 -
AMNX 9
Page 5 of 5
GEREENTE
GENERAL
GERENCIA DE              GRRENCIA DE             GERENCIA DE
INFORMACION Y            PROMOCION Y             NEGOCIACIONES
ESTUDIOS                 DESARROLLO              COWERCIALES
INTERNACIONALES
DEPARTANENTO DE 1DEPARTAMENTO DEL IGERENCIA DE
.  4  INVESTIGACION        ICENTRO DE MODA        _   INTEGRACION
DE MERCADOS            IY DESENO                  LATINOAMERICANA
DRPARTAMENTO             DEPARTAMENTO DE-         GERENCIA D
-  DR INFORMACION            LOWISTICA Y   -          NEGOCIACIONES
COMERCIAL E              ORGA19ZACION             BILATERALES
IlFORMATICA          J,E-EVENTOS
DEPARTANENTO DEL          DEPARTAENTOS             GERENCIA DE
CENTRO DE              SECTORLELS               NEGOCIACIOUES
DOCUMCION Y               (TEXTILES,               MULTlIATERALES
ORIENTACION BASICA        COmECCIOnES Y
CUEROS, AGROPEC.,
PESCA, METAL NEC.
QUMICOS, ARTESA-
NIAS, ETC.)



- 107 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
PERU
TRADE POLICY REFORM LOAN
Supplementat Loan Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Tune Taken by the Government
to prepare program:              June 1991 - August 1991
(b) Program prepared by:             Ministry of Economy and Fnance
(c) Frst presentation to the Bank:   June 1991
(d) Appraisal:                       September 1991
(e) Completion of Negotiations:      January 1992
(f) Planned Date for Effectiveness:  December 1992
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
This is the first in a series of three proposed adjustment loans to effect a workout for Peru
under the Bank's new policy of Additional Support for Workout Programs in Countries with
Protracted Arrears. The Bank's workout is part of, and contingent on, an extemal financing plan for
1991 and 1992 agreed among the intemational financial institutions and a Support Group of bilateral
donors. It is also contingent on Peru's performance under a Bank - and IMF - supported
macroeconomic stabilization program. Under the Bank's new policy, the Board's approval would
entitle Peru to the immediate disbursement of the whole loan amount after loan signing and
effectiveness. These would take place at the erd of the performance period upon satisfactory
implementation of the trade policy reform program, the economic stabilization program, and the
external financing plan (including clearance of all Bank arrears). The performance period, which
started with the initial reforms of August 8, 1990, would terminate in December, 1992, concurrently
with the termination of the IMFs rights accumulation program.
Section III:  Special Conditions
1. The following conditions for Board Presentation have been met:
(i)   a macroeconomic stabilization program in place and agreed by the IMW and the Bank;
this program provides the common framework for this loan and the two subsequent
adjustment loans proposed for Pe-ru's debt workout.
(ii)  an external financing plan. agreed among the intemational financial institutions and
the Support Group, which provides for full clearance of arrears to the Bank and the
normalization of Peru's relations with the IMF and the IDB;
(iii) Peru remaining current on its servicing of debt to the Bank currently falling due
(other than debt covered under (h) above), on the terms aleady agreed with the Govenment



- 108 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
(iv)  agreement on ectoral conditions some of which have been fulfilled by the time of
Board Presentation (paragraph 2), others of which are to be fulfilled by Loan Signing
(paragraph 3).
2. The following sectoral conditions for Board Presentaiion have been met:
(a) Some sectoral measures designed to prevent reversal of trade reform policies already in place
have been maintained. The following measures, if trAken, would have constituted a policy
reversal:
(i)   the reintroduction of foreign-xchange controls on imports;
(ii)   a rise in the level and variance of tariff protection (whether resulting from changes
in specific rates or from tariff surcharges);'
(iii)  the reintroduction of any tariff preference for the domestic market (except under
international trade agreements);
(iv) extension of coverage of the agricultural surcharge scheme
(v)   extension of free trade zones with the effect of selling, free of import taxes, imported
goods on the domestic market;
(vi)  reintroduction of banned non-tariff barriers, including the use of reference prices for
protective purposes;
(vii) raising of export-dutv rates or extension to new products or reintroduction of fiscal
or financial subsidies to exports;
(viii) survival of any of the functions related to import or export controls that the now-
extinct Foreign Trade Institute (ICE) fulfilled.
(b) Conditions for further sectoral reform that have been met are as follows:
(i)   agreement to a terms of reference for a study to develop consistent criteria, and
propose corresponding regulations, which minimize the protective features (i.e. those
that discriminate in favor of domestic producers) of existing (and any new) health.
phytosanitary. and technical regulations;
(ii)   agreement to a terms of reference for a study to propose amendments to the Anti-
dumping code so that it does not become an instrument for protection against
legitimate import competition and it operates in an transparent manner;
iIf Peru implements a common extemal tariff which is in accordance with the tariff crieria established m the recent
decision-in-principle of the Andean Group of countries, dl s condition would no longer apply.



- 109 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(iii)  agreement to an Action Plan to restructure the Customs Superintendeny. and
compliance with the first phase of this plan.
3.  Sectoral Conditions to be met between Board Presentation and Loan 'igning, in addition to
continuing non-reversal of policies as defined in paragraph 2, are as follows:
(i)  replacement of the 5-percent rate on steel inputs by a 15-percent rate, unless the
Government and the Bank agree that a new common external tariff is likely to be
implemented in accordance with the recent decision-in-principle of the Andean
Group;
(ii)  agreement to a terms of reference for a study to evaluate the agricultural surcharge
scheme. agreement on guiidines for implementing the study's recommendations, and
enactment of the reforms in line with the agreed guidelines;
(iii)  agreement on the guidelines and principles to be applied in implementing the findings
of the study on health, phytosanitary, and technical regulations, and enactment of the
reforms in line with the agreed guidelines;
(iv)  enactment of amendments to the Anti-dumping code in line with the study's
recommendations;
(v)  compliance with the required actions under the second and third phases of the
Customs Action Plan.
4. Conditions of loan signing are as follows:
(i)   prior clearance of arrears to the Bank;
(ii)  compliance, during the performance period, with the IMF and Bank-supported
program of macroeconomic stabilization, with particular reference to the Bank's
quantitative indicators;
(iii) the continued viability of an external financing plan;
(iv)  compliance, during the performance period, with the Bank's sectoral conditionality
(paragraphs 2 and 3 above).
5. The following conditions would be fulfilled for loan effectiveness:
(i)  taking of all governmental actions required to authorize (or, if necessary, to ratify)
signing of loan agreement; and,
(ii)  if a lapse of time occurred between signing and these actions, continued satisfactory
implementation of the trade reform and macroeconomic stabilization programs and
the external financing plan, in accordance with the provisions of the Letter of
Development Policy.



