Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No: 19055-GUA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
(US$ 4.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FORA
FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
October 28, 1999
Caribbean Country Department
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate as of September 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar (G$)
G$ 179 = US$1.00
US$.0056 = G$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOP          Balance of Payments
CIDA         Canadian Intemational Development Agency
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESOP         Employee Stock Ownership Plan
EU           European Union
FISBEC       Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit
FPID         Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Credit
GEC          Guyana Electricity Company
GNCB         Guyana National Cooperative Bank
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          Intemational Monetary Fund
MOF          Ministry of Finance
ODA          Official Development Assistance
PAP          Public Administration Project
PSDAC        Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TA           Technical Assistance
TAC          Technical Assistance Credit
Y2K          Year 2000 (computer problem)
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:   John D. Pollner



Guyana
Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Project Financing Data ................................................................I
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................3
Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................................3
B.  Strategic Context ................................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ..............................................................3
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................                      5
Table 1: Guyana Privatization Program
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .....................................7
Table 2: Selected Financial Indicators of Banking Institutions
4. Institutional Development Expectations ................................................................8
C. Project Description  Summary ................................................................9
1. Project components ................................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ............................................................... 11
D. Project Rationale ................................................................11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................. 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design ................................................ 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................................... 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...............................................................                       14
E. Summary Project Analyses ...............................................................                                                14
1. Economic ............................................................... 14
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                        14
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                        14
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                    14
5. Social ...............................................................                                                          15
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                         15
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................                                           15



F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                       16
1. Sustainability ......................                                               16
2. Critical risks ......................                                               16
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                               17
G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                           17
1. Effectiveness conditions ......................... 17
2. Other .........................                                                     17
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                                   17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................... 17
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 2a.      Project Budget Component Summary
Annex 2b.      Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 3a       Credit Budget and Cost Tables
Annex 4.       Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.       Financial Summary
Annex 6.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A- 1.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.       Documents in Project File
Annex 9.       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.      Country at a Glance



Page 1
Guyana
Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department III
Date: October 28, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: John D. Pollner
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos     Sector Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: 57272      Sector: FS, BP, BI           Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Investment T.A. Credit          Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan       [X] Credit      [] Guarantee      [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$4.80 / SDR 3.50
Proposed terms:                       [x]  Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         [3   Standard Variable  [3  Fixed          fj]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local              Foreign          Total
Government                                                   0.20               0.60             0.80
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                          1.20               3.60             4.80
Other (specify)
Total           1.40               4.20             5.60
Borrower: Cooperative Republic of Guyana
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      2000       2001       2002
Annual      0.9         1.3        2.6
Cumulative      0.9        2.2        4.8
For Guarantees:                                []   Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity



Page 2
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:               []    Yes               []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 11/99 - 6/02 Expected effectiveness date: 11/99  Expected closing date: 12/02



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective (See Annexes 1 and 2bfor key performance indicators)
The development objectives of the project support the second phase of institutional reforms
aimed at consolidating the measures taken under the previous structural adjustment and technical
assistance programs (SAC, PSDAC, FISBEC, & IMF/ESAF). These objectives include: (i) improving the
regulatory framework of the overall financial sector to support private sector activity and achieve
synergies among the banking, insurance, non-banking, and securities sectors, (ii) assisting in the transfer
of state-owned enterprises to the private sector to promote an enterprise led economy, and (iii) supporting
the modernization of the public sector through improved service delivery in the areas of procurement,
auditing, and public sector management, in order to provide an enabling transactional environment for
private sector business.
The key performance indicators will include (a) the implementation of a modernized broad
financial sector regulatory framework resulting in the operationalization of new regulatory bodies and
evidence of improvement in the performance and strength of financial institutions in line with
international bank accounting and Basle prudential standards; (b) transfer to the private sector of a critical
mass of state-owned enterprises within an enabling business environment for both industrial and financial
investors; and (c) the modernization of the public sector auditing and procurement framework and
implementation of Y2K compliant systems for public sector management.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project.:
CAS document number: P6155     Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/21/93
Background.: Guyana has a small open economy with a population of 780,000. It is a low-income
country with per capita income estimated at about US$750 but with abundant natural resources. Guyana is
thinly populated with about 4 persons per square kilometer. After achieving independence in 1966,
Guyana pursued a state interventionist policy of "cooperative socialism". Following two decades of
declining investment and negative growth, real per capita income declined by over 60% by 1988. There
was a massive out-migration of skilled workers and professionals mainly to North America and the U.K.
In 1988, the government began a radical change process by initiating the economic recovery program that
was supported in April 1989 by an IMF ESAF. Most of Guyana's population and economic activities are
concentrated on the narrow coastal strip, which lies below sea level at high tides and is protected by a
series of sea walls. The interior is largely forested and uninhabited, except for scattered communities of
Amerindians. It is well endowed with natural resources, with good agricultural land and abundant
rainfalls, diversified mineral deposits, and large tropical forests. The economy is basically natural
resource-based, with agriculture (mainly sugar and rice) bauxite, gold, and timber accounting for most of
the output in the productive sectors. With the possible exception of the potential for hydroelectricity,
which remains unexplored, the country does not have energy resources and is dependent on oil imports to
meet most of its energy requirements.
Agriculture in the economy accounts for 37% of GDP, 40% of employment and about 41 % of
export earnings. Approximately 43% of the population live in poverty, with 29% in extreme poverty.
The majority of the poor live in rural areas and extreme poverty is concentrated in the interior regions.
About 50% of the population is Indo-Guyanese, 36% Afro-Guyanese and 7% Amerindian, and the
remaining of mixed races. The Indo-Guyanese are strongly represented in agriculture, professional
services and distributive trade while the Afro-Guyanese live in urban areas and are strongly represented in
government, police and mining. The first democratic elections in over two decades were held in October
1992 when the PPP-Civic coalition took office.



Page 4
Recent Economic Performance and Prospects: Since 1988, Guyana has established an impressive track
record of performance under six successive annual IMF programs and under IDA and IDB structural and
sectoral adjustment credits. Reforms were also supported by three Paris Club rescheduling arrangements
during 1991-95, a stock of debt operation on Naples terms in May 1996, and the more recent HIPC debt
relief. Initially, progress in structural reform was slow due to the need for internal consensus.
Considerable progress has been achieved in restoring macro stability, liberalizing the exchange rate and
the economy, as well as strengthening the financial sector, improving the environment for the private
sector (over 60% of previous government owned assets including banks, electricity, the telephone
company and other industries, have been privatized), improving the performance of the sugar industry,
and rehabilitating infrastructure. The size of the civil service was reduced by one third since 1993. Real
GDP growth averaged over 6% per year during 1992-97 and inflation has been kept low. In 1998,
however, due to political disturbances, El Nifio drought conditions, and lower export prices for lumber,
rice, sugar and gold, the economic performance turned for the worse. Government revenues declined
sharply and the nominal exchange rate depreciated significantly.
In the area of structural reform, efforts in 1995-97 concentrated on institutional building,
increasing the role of the private sector, and streamlining the public sector. Institutional reforns included
the establishment of a strengthened central bank supervision unit, a new privatization unit,
computerization of the Inland Revenue and Customs Departments, strengthening of anti-smuggling
measures, and the improvement of the operational arrangements for the execution of the public sector
investment program (PSIP). In the financial sector, the Financial Institutions Act (FIA) and other
conforming legislation and regulations were passed;' the Exchange Control Act was repealed to complete
the liberalization of the exchange system; and a revised Act was presented to Parliament to strengthen the
independence of the central bank. In June 1997, a plan was developed (in collaboration with IDB) to
streamline the size of the public sector including the civil service. During the latter half of 1997, steps
were taken to privatize the largest commercial bank (NBIC), begin the privatization of the state-owned
mining companies, and to establish a regulatory framework for the state-owned sugar company
(Guysuco).
The local private sector is small and nascent. Future growth is envisaged in the agricultural and
mining sector, in particular rice, sugar, bauxite, gold, diamonds, gas and oil. Import tariffs are being
reduced to 20% (lowest in the Caribbean) and the tax rates are being reviewed so as to reduce them.
However, the administrative processes relating to taxes, customs, land titling and private investment
approvals, continue to be cumbersome. Other constraints include inefficiencies in the judicial system and
land management, and lack of credit for small enterprises. A large number of informal businesses need to
be registered as taxpayers and brought into the tax net. The pace of privatization has accelerated but there
is a need to further support private sector development by (i) further strengthening the regulatory
frameworks (property rights, insurance and securities rnarkets) and (ii) encouraging private participation
in infrastructure, transportation and energy.
IDA Relations: IDA's dialogue with the Government on the country assistance strategy has been through
adjustment operations, annual PFPs, jointly prepared with the IMF, and Policy notes. The focus of the
IDA assistance strategy for Guyana has evolved over the years. Initially, the main objective was
managing the post-devaluation adjustment simultaneously with macroeconomic stabilization and
liberalization of the economy. With half of the population estimated to have incomes below the poverty
line, and with the large devaluation adversely impacting on the poorest, protection of the vulnerable
groups through social programs, such as the Social Impact Amelioration Program, were assigned the
highest priority. Later, the strategy aimed at sustainable economic growth and diversification as one of
'The new regulations of the Financial Institutions Act have tightened the requirements for the provisioning for bad and doubtful
debts, raised capital adequacy standards, established borrower limits, and improved reporting and disclosure to meet regional and
international standards.



Page 5
the main pillars to reduce poverty, with particular emphasis on allowing the private sector to promote
economic activity under an organized regulatory framework.
However, progress in sectoral policy reforms and implementation of IDA projects has been quite
limited. Systemic issues affecting all projects' execution involves weak implementation capacity due to
lack of technical and managerial staff, inordinate delays in evaluation of bids, and low procurement
thresholds requiring frequent ministerial decisions. This is compounded by the limited capacity of the
local construction industry and the difficulties in attracting reputed international contractors to bid on
projects. Therefore, IDA projects need to have a capacity building component to strengthen
Government's capacity for project preparation and implementation. Smaller and well focused projects are
increasingly being considered in the future to ensure effective implementation.
The main objective of the current IDA assistance strategy is to support the Government's efforts
to achieve the above mentioned objectives, which will crucially depend on the establishment and
deepening of institutional capacities and strengthening in key areas. This will involve: (a) continuing to
improve economic efficiency and encourage economic diversification including strengthening the role of
private sector through privatization of state entities (measured by the reduction of state owned assets and
increase in private sector productive assets in the economy) and development of the securities and
insurance sectors; (b) ensuring a sound financial system which will allow the government to develop
strategies for efficiently dealing with weak banks (measured by the reduction in non-performing
portfolios in the banking sector), (c) modernization and improved service delivery in the public sector
through the institutional strengthening of key financial and operation related services such as auditing,
procurement, as well as support of year 2000 readiness for key computerized functions in personnel and
budget management.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The government is serious in its intentions regarding institutional and structural reforms, and
social sector measures are considered crucial in helping to put the economy on a sustainable path to
address the poverty situation of the country on a permanent basis. The proposed project would address
many of the institutional capacity and regulatory constraints which have been identified as preventing a
fluid private sector response despite the significant privatization already achieved in recent years.
The government's strategy is to rely increasingly on private sector-led investment and income
generation. The government intends to accelerate the privatization program by restructuring, divesting,
and broadening the share ownership of additional public entities (see table 1 below). Part of the
divestment proceeds may have to be used for expenditures related to the privatization program, such as
severance pay for the displaced workers belonging to enterprises that are restructured. In parallel to the
privatization, government will continue to develop and implement regulations in the insurance and
securities sectors, as well as improve public service delivery in the auditing and procurement areas, which
will support the new post-privatization business environment and increased private sector demands for an
efficient transactional environment.
The provision of technical assistance programs from multilateral and bilateral agencies will
continue to be an important complement to the government's policy reforms. The European Union (EU),
with its planned Private Sector Training Skills Development Program, the IDB with its programmed
Middle Management & Technical Training program, and the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) with the Private Sector and Human Resources Development Program are initiating
programs to augment the skills base in the private sector which should support the objectives of the
project. Under the auspices of IDB, a number of diagnostics of required reforms for deeds registry
modernization have been undertaken in order to provide a facilitating institution that will process property
titling and corporate registry transactions. IDB is also involved in a follow-up survey comparing civil
service salaries to private sector remuneration comparators. This survey would provide government the



Page 6
data to establish guidelines for implementation sequencing and scope of public sector salary raises for
managerial, professional, and technical positions, with mechanisms for periodic adjustment. IDB will
take the lead in the overall civil service reform program (currently under preparation) which is being
structured under a $50 million sectoral policy operation. IDA's assistance (both under the FISBEC,
PSDAC, and this proposed project: the 'FPID') will include technical assistance in strengthening the
Privatization Unit, advisory work to restructure the remaining state-owned financial sector, with
subsequent feasibility work on privatization options, development of regulations supporting the banking,
securities and insurance sectors, and improving public sector services to augment the public sector's
response capacity.
Table 1
Guyana Privatization Program
Privatized 1990-92: Guyana Timbers, Guyana Telecom, National Trading, Nichimo Ltd., Guyana Leather
Craft, Livestock Development Co., National Paint Co., Demerara Woods Ltd., Guyana Transport Services,
Guyana Design & Graphics, Sijan Plaza Restaurant, Guyana Fisheries, Rice Milling & Marketing
Authority, Guyana Soap & Detergent Ltd.
G$ millions
Total       Total                           No. of
Sector      Assets     Liabilities    Total Equity     Employees
Privatized 1993-98:
Demerara Distillers    Commercial    2,856       1,436            1,421           1,419
National Engineering    Industrial    484          104             379             539
Forte Crest Hotel     Service       730          188             541
Guyana Bank for Trade
& Industry         Banking      20,771       18,351           2,420            92
National Edible Oil    Agri-based    n.a.         n.a.            n.a.             79
Guyana Stockfeeds    Commercial      149          34              114              70
SANATA Textiles      Commercial      n.a.         n.a.            n.a.
Guyana Electricity Co.    Utilities   5,670        1,380           4,289           1,100
National Bank of
Industry & Commerce     Banking      26,129       24,046           2,082            160
Guyana Cooperative
Insurance Service    Insurance      279           65              199             140
Claybrick Factory   Commercial       3                             3              20
Linden Wharf       Commercial      n.a.         n.a.            n.a.
GNCB Trust Co.       Financial     2,813        2,148            665             n.a.
Privatization Program
1999-2001:
Bermine           Mining        2,379       2,226             114             547
Linmine           Mining        5,241        1,983           3,259           1,568
Guysuco Dairy       Agri-based      46                           46              32
Quality Foods      Commercial      n.a.         n.a.            n.a.             80
National Printers   Commercial      139          60               80             219
Hope Coconut Indust.    Agri-based     10           5               6
Wauna Palm Oil Estate   Agri-based     87            8              78              110
Ruimveldt Indust. Park   Industrial  23,175                       23,175
Guy. Pharmaecuticals   Commercial     393          279              113            196
Guyana Stores Shares     Retail      1,342         600             742             588
Seals & Packaging    Commercial    1,391          736             655             124
Surapana Farm      Agriculture     n.a.         n.a.            n.a.             20
Guyana Airways       Transport     1,554         757             797             246
Glassworks Indust. Park   Industrial   431          n.a.            431             n.a.
Bauxite Industrial. Dev.  Real Estate    40,001     n.a.           40,001           n.a.



Page 7
The proposed project follows up on the previous programs: the Private Sector Development
Adjustment Credit (PSDAC) and the Financial Sector & Business Environment Credit (FISBEC). The
objectives of the PSDAC and FISBEC were to help spur progress in improving the environment for the
private sector as a means to stimulate economic growth through: (i) reduction of the direct role of the state
in economic activities, (ii) improvement in the regulation and supervision of the financial system, (iii)
reduction in the burden of bureaucratic impediments to investment and international trade, and (iv)
revision in the corporate tax policy to improve transparency and reduce distortions. To this end, the
PSDAC supported privatization, financial sector reform, trade liberalization, rationalization of incentives,
corporate tax reform, and improvement of the business environment through companies law reform.
The Government, under the PSDAC, with the. FISBEC providing supporting technical assistance,
met its privatization targets by completing the sale of a total of 15 enterprises above a number of
enterprises disposed of in the earlier phase, which overall represented over 60% of the government's total
net asset holdings prior to the program. Under the financial sector reform, legislation and regulation were
vastly improved. A new financial institutions act and conforming regulations, revised prudential
regulations, and a central bank act were passed, all of which were found to be satisfactory by qualified
financial sector experts and in line with Basle international standards. At the same time, the banking
supervision capacity of the Central Bank was strengthened with technical assistance financing, and
support from the IMF. Public ownership of financial institutions was divested or liquidated, except the
"new GNCB bank", formed via merger and restructuring of Guyana National Cooperative Bank and
GAIBANK. Although a part of the conditionality, progress in improving operations and efficiency of the
new GNCB has been slow. Conditions regarding first generation improvements in the business
environment were met, however, and a new Companies Law and regulations were promulgated.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main objective of the Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project (FPID) is
to improve upon the environment that has already been created under the PSDAC and FISBEC programs
and address second generation emerging regulatory issues which evolved towards the end of the PSDAC.
The proposed program will also continue the process of structural reform, particularly in the privatization
and financial sector areas, while implementing actions to further reinforce the private sector business
environment and service delivery through institutional strengthening measures in the public sector. The
project will utilize an institution building approach which incorporates the use of external technical
expertise into the business processes of domestic institutions (financial, regulatory, privatization) in the
form of a 'twinning' approach which will allow a much more effective transfer of technical know-how
than the traditional "advisory technical assistance role". This approach was briefly piloted in the previous
project (FISBEC) and its positive results have led to the institutionalized design of it within this new
project.
In addition, based on the progress made under the prior programs financed by IDA, it became
evident that development of the private and financial sectors would also be limited by the capacity of the
public sector to provide a sufficiently nimble response capability to support the transactional and business
process needs of the private sector. Thus, a multi-faceted program for private sector support is being
proposed to cover key elements of institutional infrastructure which combine synergies among the
privatization program, improved financial sector oversight, and improved delivery of public sector
services, particularly those which impact on the efficacy of private investment (e.g.: public procurement,
auditing, and improved accountability of public sector human resources). This deliberate focus in
recognizing the synergies between public institutions which primarily regulate and catalyze private sector
activity (financial, privatization), and those which provide 'transaction-based' supporting services (audit,
procurement), constitutes one of the lessons incorporated under the project, based on previous Credits.



Page 8
The government has had a satisfactory track record in implementing financial sector reforms
(through the Guyana Financial Institutions Act incorporating Basle international banking standards) as
well as a privatization program in the last 5 years which has succeeded in transferring a majority of
previously owned state assets to the private sector. It is evident therefore, that the government is
committed to serious reform in these sectors, and the recent decision to appoint an international
restructuring/management team to improve the financial condition of GNCB (the remaining state-owned
bank), is an additional positive signal in this direction. Nevertheless, continued progress is required to
ensure that GNCB (the third largest bank in the financial system - see Table 2 below) can be placed on a
sound financial footing for the government to consider the future ownership options for the institution.
Table 2
Guyana - Selected Financial Indicators of Banking Institutions by Asset Rank
and Structure of the Financial System
($G billions - End 1998)
Banks               Net Income      Deposits         Assets
National Bank of Industry and
Commerce (NBIC)                   0.11           28.7            33.7
Guyana Bank of Trade and
Industry (GBTI)                   0.32            15.9           20.8
Guyana National Cooperative
Bank (GNCB)                      (0.44)           13.2           16.2
Bank of Nova Scotia               0.25            6.8            9.8
Demerara Bank                     0.14            4.9            6.7
Citizens Bank                     0.05            3.0            4.1
Bank of Baroda                    0.05            1.4             1.9
Total Banks              0.48            73.9           93.2
Non-Banks
Pension Funds                     n.a.             -             0.8
Trusts                            n.a.             -             7.7
Insurance Companies               n.a.             -             0.2
Building Societies                n.a.             -             10.9
Total Non Banks                                           19.6
Regarding the public sector business services component of the proposed project, the strategic
choices made in terms of identifying the most relevant and supporting programs, also pertain to
governmental commitment in the near term. While a reform of the civil service is also on the
government's agenda, this aspect was not directly included given the magnitude of such reforms (already
initiated under the HlPC), and the fact that another donor (IDB) is already preparing a full scale sectoral
operation to address this issue. Nevertheless, this proposed project incorporates some basic areas of
technical assistance to track the composition of the public sector's human resource base through
improvement in information systems including Y2K compliance, which in itself will provide the
budgetary and key payroll data from which future analyses under a broader restructuring program of the
civil service could be undertaken.
4. Institutional Development Expectations:
[xl Financial - Utilizing technical assistance within the business process requirements of regulatory
agencies, the project will also support the development and functioning of the new autonomous regulatory



Page 9
institutions (Insurance and Securities Commissions) as well as the upgrading of banking and other
financial sector regulation in line with current international strategies and taking into account the local
evolution of the financial industry.
[x] Technical - The project will assist in the institutionalization of technical local capability for handling
future privatization transactions, including the industry/sectoral analysis requirements, as well as the
financial modeling, legal, and share offering procedures needed to properly execute enterprise sales
within an emerging capital market, while assuring protection of the small investor.
[x] Institutional - Under all project components, technical assistance work will be structured under
twinning-type arrangements to ensure day-to-day knowledge transfer to the beneficiary entities (Ministry
of Finance, Privatization Unit, Central Bank, new regulatory Commissions) and assure future
sustainability. Strengthening of the overarching core services of procurement, financial management, and
auditing in the Ministry of Finance will be conducted through a simultaneous process of policy reform
(e.g.: public sector procurement and audit) while piloting an integrated financial management,
procurement, and audit process for the execution of the project.
[x] Other - The institutional and regulatory changes to be implemented may provide a track record of
reforms and capacity building which could lead to future sector policy based operations, particularly in
the financial and private sector components, given potential b.o.p. requirements.
C: Project Description Summary
1.     Project Components. The project has three major components to support regulatory and
institutional development. The three main areas are: (a) Financial Sector Development; (b) Private Sector
Development; and (c) Public Sector Business Services.
(a) Financial Sector Development: This component will involve funding of technical assistance expertise
and technology upgrading to put in place a procedural framework for handling banks with structural or
short term solvency and/or liquidity problems; implementing uniform financial accounting reporting
standards and a chart of accounts in the banking sector; updating the regulatory framework to cover
merchant banks, trust, foreign exchange traders, and other non-bank financial institutions; restructuring
and improving the financial condition of the remaining state-owned bank including an assessment of
privatization options; and developing industry-specific regulations and directives to operationalize the
new legal framework and supervisory bodies for the insurance and securities sectors.
(b) Private Sector Development: This component will fund technical assistance, training and equipment to
support the second phase of the privatization program to transfer approximately 13-16 additional state
enterprises to the private sector. Besides technical assistance to carry out the financial, net worth
valuation, and legal/contractual aspects of the program, the component will also develop in conjunction
with the development of securities sector regulations above, a framework for facilitating the public
offering of shares of such enterprises on the market. It will also fund work to value the financial accounts
of, and consolidate all the remaining state enterprises into a common holding company to facilitate future
performance monitoring and readiness for privatization. The component will also support the
development of policies under the privatization program to protect laborers' and small investor interests
to ensure fair and socially equitable treatment of such interests during the privatization process, as well as
environmentally sound safeguards.
(c) Public Sector Business Services: This component will fund the development of revised public
procurement procedures and regulations to facilitate the public bidding and contracting processes, and the
establishment of a national contractors registry. It will also strengthen and update the public sector's
external auditing capacity to improve standards and timeliness of audits undertaken for both multilateral
investment project credits and public institutions, and to implement procedures for conducting operational
and performance based audit work and training thereof, under the aegis of the Auditor General's office.
The component will also fund the modernization of the public sector's payroll budget system to ensure
full Y2K compliance and allow continuity and efficacy in this key public sector management function.



Page 10
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of      IDA-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    IDA-
_ __   (US$M)            (US$M)   financing
Financial Sector Development        Policy &            1.50     27          1.30      87
Institution
Private Sector Development          Policy &           2.30      41         2.00       87
Institution
Building
Public Sector Business Services     Policy &            1.80      32         1.50      83
Institution
Building
Total         5.60     100         4.80       86
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy reforms supported by the project involve:
(a) Strengthening the regulatory framework in both the banking and non-bank sector in order to ensure
adequate institutional oversight of all financial institutions including banks, trusts, merchant banks,
mortgage institutions, insurance companies, and securities brokers. In this context, restructuring the state-
owned bank (GNCB) and evaluation of privatization options, will be addressed as a targeted effort to
ensure a well functioning financial system. Development of contingency strategies to deal switfly with
weak banks will also be supported by the project, to ensure early corrective actions for failing institutions,
if these arise.
(b) Support in strengthening of the government privatization unit will ensure an efficient transfer of state
enterprises and productive assets to the private sector under a transparent regulatory framework. In
addition, consolidation of remaining public enterprise accounts into a government holding company will
assure more timely and accurate financial reporting of enterprises in the public sector, which would
facilitate performance measurement as well as future privatization and financial valuation efforts.
(c) Targeted public sector institutional reforms in the procurement and auditing areas will be undertaken
with the view to increasing the public service delivery and responsiveness to private sector transactional
needs. Development of an increasingly transparent public procurement framework will improve
competition in the investment process and support information recordkeeping on local suppliers. A
strengthened public auditing function will improve accountability-based public service delivery and help
to institute sound public financial reporting standards.
3. Benefits and target population:
The key benefits of the program are directed to both private sector and labor participants in the
economy. While the program counts on industry entrepreneurs to enable a process of private sector
expansion and reduction of control by the state in key economic activities (which in the past has also been
a significant drain on fiscal resources), there is substantial emphasis on protecting the labor sector and
ensuring that private investors are selected for their ability to generate productive economic concerns.
Since the project's key objective is to transfer potentially productive resources from management under
the state to the private sector, this principal policy is geared towards increasing welfare in the population
in a sustainable manner given that past practices of government run enterprises resulted in budget deficits,
low wages, and less productive use of industry assets. In addition, the program is multi-faceted in that it
continues the privatization effort while reinforcing the safeguards of private ownership through reform in



Page I 1
the securities and insurance areas to protect consumers and individual investors. To supplement the
private sector effort, reforms of specific public services are to be undertaken to develop a responsive
public sector delivery capacity to support the requirements of the emerging business sector, including an
enabling environment relating to procurement, auditing, and computerization of basic public sector
management functions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be managed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) where the project unit is being
housed. The individual sub-programs will be managed for the purposes of technical implementation by
the applicable executing units. For the private sector development component, the Privatization Unit (part
of the MOF) will conduct the program and manage the specific technical consultancies as required. For
the financial sector component, in particular, the improvement in banking regulation and supervision, the
central bank (Bank of Guyana - BOG) will undertake execution of such component though the MOF
project unit will handle procurement matters. For the public sector business services component, the
Ministry will manage the execution via its relevant units and representatives from the national tender
Board (e.g.: for implementation of the new procurement law), as well as involvement of the Auditor
General's office as a beneficiary of the audit strengthening component.
The Ministry of Finance, however, will centralize project contract processing, procurement,
auditing, and disbursement arrangements, which will be effected at the request of the technical
implementation units. In the case of the Privatization Unit and the Bank of Guyana, these arrangements
have already been tested under the FISBEC and determined to be adequate. Some improvement in the
organization of the project unit in the MOF and its processing and accounting capacity will be needed, to
ensure that reports on project progress, contracts processing, and financial execution are timely.
Auditing arrangements have been discussed with the MOF. While the Auditor General
traditionally, and by law, conducts the audits of public sector programs including IDA projects, it also has
the flexibility to deploy private audit firms for this purpose. In order to improve the financial
management and accountability of the project unit, the project will include a budget for the contracting of
an independent private audit examiner to undertake 'annual examinations' of the project accounts, as
agreed with the MOF. The Auditor General would still review and audit the project as the official
government auditor as required by Guyanese law, but the external private examiner arrangement should
result in more timely submission of project audits to IDA.
During project supervision, the IDA tean would include the requisite specialists to monitor the
project implementation arrangements covering the following areas: (a) progress in policy & institutional
reforms under the project's technical components, (b) coordination among the MOF with the executing
units, (c) project financial management, accounting, procurement and auditing, and (d) assessment of
information technology adequacy (including Y2K provisions) for project administration purposes.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative earlier considered for this project was a sectoral adjustment operation
covering the financial, private sector, civil service reform, and other reform components. However, even
though Guyana has shown a better track record in the performance of adjustment versus investment
operations, the recent FISBEC T.A. credit performed satisfactorily, particularly with regards to the earlier
phase of the privatization program and the financial sector regulatory reforms (e.g.: the passage of the
Guyana Financial Institutions Act which incorporated international Basle based banking standards).
However, a T.A. operation was deemed more appropriate for the following reasons:
(a) With the ongoing HIPC performance monitoring as well as the IMF's ESAF program and IDA's



Page 12
previous PSDAC, many policy reforms are already being implemented. Nevertheless, the institutional
support and capacity to fully enforce and sustain such reforms has not been fully addressed. Therefore,
this proposed project aims to develop the institutional mechanisms which would allow future policy
reforms and/or those currently underway to be implemented and enforced on the ground. In addition,
govemment commitment to the reform of private and financial sector policies is evident and has already
achieved the political consensus as per prior IDA operations in this sector, and commitments already
being confirmed under HIPC. Also, given IMF commitments for b.o.p. financing, as well as possible
savings from implementation of the H[PC agreements, the Govemment currently has a stronger need for
targeted technical/institutional interventions, and thus the need for further b.o.p. financing is not an
immediate priority.
(b) The other alternative considered also within the context of a sectoral adjustment operation, was
implementation of a broader public sector wide civil service reform program to improve the public sector
response capacity within a private-sector led economy. However, given the IDB commitment and
agreement with the government on a future $50 million operation to finance a civil service reform
program, and given the need to further evaluate the various restructuring options under such a program, it
was deemed to be overly broad and needing further work in terms of its implementation path, to be
included simply as another component in an already multi-faceted operation. Nevertheless, under the
proposed T.A. project, the specific targeted interventions aimed at improving public sector services and
better tracking its human resources through the upgrading of information systems, will also lay some of
the foundations and analysis for better evaluating the extent of public sector restructuring actions needed,
as well as better monitoring the cost of public sector resources.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Banking Sector Reform,             Technical Assistance        S              S
Public Sector                      Credit (TAC)
Financial Sector reform and        Financial Sector and        S               S
restructuring; Privatization Program  Business Environment
Credit (FISBEC)
Financial Sector Reform            Private Sector              S               S
Private Sector: Privatization and  Development
tax/tariff regime                  Adjustment Credit
(PSDAC)
Other development agencies
Macro, fiscal, monetary, and structural IMF Enhanced
reforms in financial/private/public sect. Structural Adj. Facility
Banking Sector Reform             IDB Financial Sector
Loan
Privatization Technical Assistance  UK DFID ODA
Program                            Caribbean Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Three key lessons stand out in the design of this project based on past experience:
(a) For the successful privatization of public enterprises, all stakeholders need to be taken into account,
particularly workers in the entities and small investors interested in contributing to the domestic market.
Thus, this project explicitly incorporates the development of policies to both protect workers' interests in
the transistion of ownership of privatized entities, as well as financial market regulations which
adequately take into account and protect the interests of small investors (including when these are the
employees of the privatized entities or individual consumer investors who require protection against
related party transactions - the latter will also be assisted by the development of securities trading and
disclosure regulations).
(b) Successful private sector development also requires an open consideration of both social and
environmental issues to assure community and labor support, and prevent future environmental issues
from emerging. In this respect, on the social side, explicit structuring of labor continuity and/or severance
provisions in investor contracts, as well as options for future employee stock ownership, greatly enhance
community support for privatization programs. With regard to environmental considerations, explicit
inclusion of responsibilities for environmental liabilities in investor contracts, assisted by ex ante
environmental auditing of enterprises to be sold, helps to identify and take up front corrective measures to
assure future business practices with sound environmental safeguards.
(c) Certain processing safeguards need to be put in place prior to entering into a privatization process for
individual enterprises. This includes conducting land and property title searches much before any formal
bidding process begins. In this manner, any competing claims for land or property title can be resolved
before the competitive bidding process is underway and thus avoid delays further down the line when
investors have to await for resolution of third party claims on government land or property. Other
efficiencies which can be incorporated into a privatization process include the pre drafting of investor
agreements which include priorities of the govermnent regarding the expected privatization outcome.
This procedure, once shared with investors, greatly expedites processing and negotiation time since it
spells out clearly the assumptions and interests of the government as selling party, and allows investors to
tailor bids and subsequent legal agreements in a manner which facilitates final consensus.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower has already completed a significant first phase of the privatization program in
which a number of major public sector entities were transferred to the private sector, and/or recently
advertised for sale (see PSDAC ICR Report and recent HIPC monitoring reports). The program has
progressed very well in that additional entities, not in the original plan, have also been prepared for sale to
the private sector (notwithstanding the delay in the GEC sale which required a rebidding).
In addition, both throughout the PSDAC operation as well as during the HIPC monitoring
exercise and under the IMF ESAF, the strongest policy perfornance was observed in the areas of private
sector and financial sector development - areas in which targets were met on or ahead of schedule in most
cases. More recently, the government has seen fit to deploy intemational technical experts to ensure
quality institution-building results, both to carry out the privatization program, as well as in the banking
restructuring area.
In the public sector area, significant progress has been achieved, particularly with respect to
movement on reforming the public procurement framework and establishing an independent revenue
authority. While these institutional reforms are not yet complete, there is sufficient evidence that a
change in the framework of these areas is underway and will not be reversed.



Page 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The Bank/IDA, via a number of operations starting with the SAC and the TAC, and followed by
the FISBEC and the PSDAC, has been committed to supporting these areas in Guyana, and has the best
knowledge of the sectors covered by this project, in comparison with the other donors. While in many
cases other donors' programs will complement this operation (IMF, EU, CIDA, IDB), the Bank/IDA has
generally taken the leadership in these areas. In addition, due to the Bank's internal specializations, the
proposed areas cover necessary synergies which the Bank/IDA is best suited to tackle. These include the
linkages between, financial sector, privatization, capital markets development, and supporting public
services and policy issues.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
The economic analysis will include the benefits in terms of immediate revenues from
privatization, future tax revenues, labor separation costs, and project expenditures supporting the
program.
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis NPV=US$ 7.9 million:
2. Financial (see Annex 4): NPV=US$ 6.6 million;
The financial analysis projects the NPV and IRR. of the expected results of the project, including
government net profits from the privatization exercise, costs of the program (technical and administrative,
as well as restructuring costs), IDA and Government inputs into the process, and efficiency gains /
reduction in liabilities from sale of public enterprises and improvement in bank loan portfolios,
respectively.
Fiscal impact: The fiscal impact analysis takes into account the trade-offs between maintaining
the status quo, i.e., subsidizing loss making public enterprises, and potential gains from restructuring and
privatization which would eventually lead to incremental tax proceeds accruing to the Government.
Additional contingent costs such as severance payments and needed capital injections into failing
enterprises, are taken into account in costing the privatization proceeds and expected revenues from
privately managed concerns.
3. Technical:
Technical assessments have been documented with respect to the implementation and technical
capability of the following players, to determine feasibility in implementing the proposed project's
components: (a) Privatization Unit, (b) Bank of Guyana, and (c) Public Services (auditing, procurement).
The assessments have been conducted as part of previous project preparation and supervision work
(PSDAC, FISBEC, PAP), as well as IDA's audit and procurement assessments, and other reports linked
to the country's strucural reform agenda. The privatization unit and the central bank, in particular, have
demonstrated technical proficiency in executing their respective functions. The central bank's
supervision unit was trained for a period of 3-4 years by seconded professional supervisors from the
Central Bank of the Philippines, and funded by the IMF.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies - Ministry of Finance: While the MOF will delegate the technical execution of
many of the project components to the respective specialized units (as per above), the official executing
agency is the Ministry itself. As documented and observed in a number of reports, the Ministry continues
to lack qualified staff for effective and timely program follow-up, and requires a restructuring and
strengthening of functions so that the Minister is not held accountable for all transactions related to
project execution, no matter how detailed they are. In this regard, given the technical assistance nature of



Page 15
the project, additional consideration will be given to fund from the project, key advisory positions to
ensure not only effective project/program coordination, but also to follow up on IDA sectoral matters
linked to the project, and disseminate this modus operandi to other qualified or trainable staff in the
Ministry. This remains a weak area in the Ministry, and while the implementation of the future civil
service reform program (via IDB) should address some of this, in the interim, additional capacity is
needed to ensure timely follow-up on project and sectoral matters.
b. Project management: The Ministry of Finance has in past projects assigned one staff member for
most project management matters. The Ministry has set up a Multilateral/World Bank Unit which will be
in charge of follow up on all project management matters. The IDA project team has verifed that such
unit which constitutes the official project unit, is adequately staffed to follow up on both project financial
management matters as well as project execution monitoring. The project unit includes staff responsible
for the functions of project coordination, disbursement, procurement, accounting, and systems support.
5. Social:
As discussed in the project design, the inclusion of policies to protect workers affected by the
privatization process (which temporarily became a political issue during the offer for sale of the state
mining companies), will be a deliberate intervention supported by this project, to assure that social impact
considerations are taken into account. In this regard, policies will be developed providing for options of
(a) severance packages, (b) contract continuity as part of privatization deal, (c) employee stock ownership
plans, and/or (d) retraining programs. For industries being privatized which have a high local
employment base as in the bauxite mining areas, social assessments of affected communities will be
undertaken to determine the degree of impact from privatizations on employment and future economic
growth of such communities. The government's Privatization Board will include representatives from the
labor unions so that any of the above arrangements are discussed a priori with the labor sector prior to
including them in investor/privatization agreements.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      []A   [X] B   [] C
The project is strictly for technical assistance and little environmental impact is anticipated. However,
for the privatization of some of the natural resource intensive industries (mining) as well as other
industries with potential environmental impacts (pharmaceuticals), environmental assessments will be
carried out under the project. This will also include, as part of bringing enterprises to point-of-sale,
conducting environmental audits for public enterprises to be privatized and identifying potential
environmental liabilities which would have to be resolved by future investors/buyers or the government.
The privatization legal agreements betweeen the government and investors will include both
accountability clauses for maintaining environmental safeguards in place, as well as clauses accepting any
cost of environmental clean up to be incorporated into the pricing agreement for the sale. In addition, the
Guyana Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will also be involved in vetting and providing
environmental permits for newly privatized entities, once the EPA has satisfied itself that sufficient
measures are in place to assure that business operations are being conducted under sound environmental
standards. As part of the privatization technical assistance, the UK ODA/DFID Office in the Caribbean
will be providing additional grant funds to assure proper environmental auditing of public enterprises
(e.g.: removal of scrap metal, site clean-up prior to sale, assurances of non existence of leakage of
hazardous substances, etc.) as part of the pre-sale valuation process.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Interviews were conducted with representative of the private sector (Private Sector Commission,
Guyana Manufacturer's Association), as well as representatives of the Labor Unions (Guyana Labor
Union), and Government Agencies involved in the program (Privatization Unit, Bank of Guyana, Go-
Invest, Ministry of Finance, Auditor General). These would represent the primary beneficiaries of the
project.



Page 16
b. Other key stakeholders:
Interviews during project preparation were conducted with other donors involved in related
programs, in particular the EU (private sector skills survey and development program), CIDA (private
sector human resource strengthening), IDB (private sector technical and management training program),
IMF (private sector structural reform measures), and USAID (investment promotion program). The
proposed project was designed to leverage off of these existing programs in process of being
implemented, while not duplicating other donors' programs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims to provide consulting capacity which will be structured into the business
processes of the beneficiary entities, so as to ensure eventual training and honing of staff in the
implementation of the subject reforms (i.e.: on-the-job technical assistance instead of report writing).
This will be particularly so in the case of the improvements and implementation of the financial sector
(banks and non-banks) regulatory frameworks, as well as in the operations of asset/enterprise valuation
for the privatization unit. Nevertheless, the privatization unit by definition will be a temporary
administrative structure, thus once all major public enterprises are privatized, it should cease to exist. In
the areas of the new Insurance and Securities Commissions, direct technical assistance will be provided in
setting up these new entities and working with their staif and management to instill the requisite controls
and procedures (similar to the earlier technical assistance provided to the Central Bank's Banking
Supervision Unit using on-site technical/management experts).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1).
Risk                   Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "Outputs to Objective"
Discontinuation of sound            S          Ensure Government policy of full public
Government sectoral policies                   disclosure & stakeholder participation. Ensure
(political change risk)                        adequate training for staff implementing structural
reforms (banking, privatization).
Lack of absorptive capacity of      M          Advertisement of entities at domestic, regional,
private sector for public entities             and international level. Preparation of draft sale
offered for sale.                              agreements for prior examination by investors.
Political and labor opposition to   H          Explicit incorporation of protection measures
further privatization.                         and severance/ESOP/contract continuity options as
part of privatization deals.
Annex 1, cell "Components to
Outputs"
Continued deterioration and fiscal    S        Implementation and/or continuation of
liability on account of GNCB                   restructuring team, under private international
operations.                                    management contract.
Lack of incentives to improve        S         Implement early on, the human resource
public sector services.                        budget/payroll tracking system to allow costing and
rationalizing of inputs for key public services.
Overall Risk Rating    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Opposition to enterprise privatizations may arise if insufficient consideration is given to worker's
interests, in light of potential employment displacements. For that reason explicit policies in this area are
incorporated into the project design and into the privatization framework.
In the public sector reform area, there may be government resistance to privatizing or contracting out
some public services such as auditing, procurement, and project management, which are still considered
under the purview of the government sector. For this purpose, the project will evaluate the various
options of how to arrive at the most efficient public service delivery arrangements, while allowing
flexibility in maintaining government control while using private sector partners.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a. Establishment of a financial management system in the MOF.
2. Other:
a. Pre-Negotiations: (a) Agreement on the set of public enterprises to be included in the privatization
plan; (b) Agreement on deadline for submitting GNCB evaluation report and date for undertaking future
ownership decision; (c) Identification of short list of private audit examiners, and (d) Establishment of a
project implementation unit.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[NA] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
l ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L1 ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signat 
Task  ar Leader/Task Manager: John D. Pollner, LCSFP
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipz ger,    S
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia K Ia tzopoulos, LC  C



Page 18
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
To move towards a private   Increase in private sector  Periodic macroeconomic    Improvement in economic
sector led economy         investment (both domestic    monitoring in conjunction    trends, and upswing in
complemented by adequate  and FDI) as a share of GDP.  with IMF.                  growth. Improvement in
and efficient government                                                          neighboring economies'
regulatory structures to                                                          conditions and improved
ensure an enabling business                                                       external import demand.
environment with socially
friendly policies.
Project Development                                                               (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To strengthen the          Reduction in bureaucratic    Critical surveys of private    Continued Government
regulatory frameworks and   impediments to private    sector participants during  commitment to a market-
institutions supporting an    sector business transactions,  project supervision,  based economy and
integrated policy appproach   and increased market    including the Guyanese      relaxation of centrally
towards private sector     regulated activities within    Private Sector Commission,  managed regulatory
development, covering the    new established regulatory   the Manufacturer's      structures in favor of market
interlinkages among        frameworks, and institutions  Association, and individual  based self-regulatory
financial sector           under private ownership.   entrepreneurs.              organizations.
development, privatization,
and public service delivery.
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
a. Implementation of a     a. Approval/implementation  a. Verification of Cabinet   a. Continuation of existing
modernized regulatory &    of new regulatory          approval of, and Ministerial  government policies with
supervisory framework for   frameworks, including     issuance of implementing    respect to financial sector
banks, non-banks,          provisions & resolutions for  Orders.                  reform & restructuring.
insurance, and securities  financial sector contingency
industries, and policies to    planning and early
ensure financial sector    corrective action policies.
solvency.                                                                         b. Sufficient absoptive
b. Execution of a         b. Bringing to point of sale  b. Verification through  private investors in market
privatization program w/   a key set of public        printed advertisement       for entities offered.
implementation of policies   enterprises, and concluding   notices, contract agreements  Implementation of
to protect workers, small    privatization sales or long    and/or evidence of payment.  worker/labor friendly
investors and the          term leases to private sector                          privatization practices.
environment, during sale of  for enterprises andother
enterprises to private sector.  government assets.
c. Qualitative and                                    c. Verification through     c. Public sector incentives
procedural improvements in  c. Improving efficiency in   improved automation of   to demonstrate public
public services supporting    key public services, and  processes, and efficient &  service delivery
private sector transactions    increasing private participa-  transparent awarding of  improvement and facilitate
(procurement, auditing)    tion in service delivery.  private sector contracts.   private sector transactions.



Page 19
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2    component)
for project description)
a. Central Bank -         a. Contracting of qualified   During supervision      a. Government recognition
Strengthening of the      technical advisors reviewed  missions: utilizing financial, and pro-activity in
supervisory function for  by IDA.                    legal, procurement, project   mitigating financial risks
banks and non-banks.                                 management, systems, and   from poorly capitalized
b. Restructuring GNCB and  b. Improvement of bank    public sector specialists to   financial entities.
preparation of privatization   financial condition under    verify implementation via:
options.                  private management         evaluation of legal        b. Government to negotiate
contract.                 documents, audited financial pricing of enterprises put up
c. Development of the     c. Establishment of the    statements, systems        for sale or long term lease
Insurance, Securities,    respective regulatory      implementation, and        according a minimum of
regulatory/supervisory    Commission and             approved operating plans,    current net worth and
institutions.             Supervisory Council.       budgets, and               maximum of future
d. Strengthening the      d. Completion of enterprise  implementation of newly    franchise (earnings) values,
privatization unit in the  evaluations, net worth    established institutions.  while minimizing
areas of divestment analysis, analysis, and draft sale                          discretionary ownership
share offerings,          contracts for selected                                criteria (excepting worker
consolidation of public   enterprises and/or asset                              and small investor
enterprise accounts, and  transactions.                                         protection issues).
implementation of asset
lease/sale policy.                                                              c. Sufficient internal project
e. Modernize procedures    e. Approval of new                                   implementation and staffing
and strengthen institutional  procurement legislation,                          capacity in MOF to partake
capacity in public services   increased audit timeliness,                       of technical support and
in procurement,           and modernization of the                              assure progress in reforming
establishment of a local  government's processing                               efficiency of public sector
contractors registry,     systems.                                              service delivery in the areas
auditing, and upgrading of                                                      specified.
information systems for
public sector management.
f. Implement a human      f. Implementation of a
resource budget tracking  modernized budget payroll
system in the public sector   system being Y2K
with upgraded technology    compliant.
platforms.



Page 20
Annex 2
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Project Description
l. Project Component 1: Financial Sector Development: Strengthen oversight and broaden
regulatory framework for financial sub-sectors including non-banks, insurance, securities, and
foreign exchange sectors - US$1.30 million (base cost): This component would fund technical
assistance and inforrnation support systems in three output areas: the Bank of Guyana (BOG),
restructuring of GNCB, and regulatory development in the financial sub-sectors. For the BOG, in
particular, this component would develop a procedural framework for handling banks with short term or
structural liquidity and/or solvency problems, implement uniform standards of financial reporting, in line
with international standards for banks and other licensed financial institutions, update the financial sector
regulatory framework to cover merchant banks, trusts, and other non-bank institutions, and improve the
monitoring framework for foreign exchange operators in the non-bank sector, including appropriate
regulations and controls on market participants.
This component will also assist in the development and issuance of regulations for the prudential
operation and requirements of the insurance sector, and putting in place monitoring mechanisms to ensure
authorized transactions with adequate disclosure and compliance in the securities sector including
transparency in investment disclosure and protection of small investors against related party transactions.
This component will assist to establish and develop the capacity of the new regulatory bodies that will be
established as autonomous entities in these sectors, during the implementation of the project. Equipment
for computerizing financial sector monitoring indicators in newly regulated markets, will be financed
where needed.
For the restructuring of GNCB, this component will fund a reform effort of the bank in the
following areas: credit policy and credit appraisal procedures, arrears collection and supporting systems,
organizational structure and human resource management, property and branch rationalization,
organizational structure and human resource management, and management information systems. Under
a new management team, a review of the organizational structure as well as the human resource needs of
the bank will be conducted, job specifications and appropriate remuneration levels will be established,
and staffing levels by grade and competency will be identified. This would include formulation of a staff-
downsizing program and implementation of training programs to ensure that staff are sufficiently skilled
and familiar with the procedures of the bank. A detailed branch analysis will be undertaken to establish
whether some branches should be closed, relocated, or sold to other banks. For branches that will be
retained, an action plan to refurbish or keep them attractive for clients, will be implemented. Internal
control procedures and systems will be introduced and a proper fixed assets register will be maintained to
account for and protect the bank's fixed assets. On credit policy and appraisal, a rigorous system, with
specific credit management and delegation responsibilities, will be instituted to ensure that all new loans
are properly evaluated. Arrears collection will be addressed with a separate unit within the bank to be
created to actively manage and reduce the non-performing loan portfolio. In the area of management
information systems, an arrears reporting module that willl automatically generate reminders and reports,
as well as monthly statement of accounts to clients will be implemented. A feasibility study on
privatization options will be conducted.
2. Project Component 2: Private Sector Development: Augment private participation in the
economy and implement enabling business environment for the privatized sectors - US$1.80 million
(base cost): The government intends to accelerate the privatization program by restructuring and
broadening the private sector share ownership of the remaining public entities. Part of the divestment
proceeds may be used for costs associated with the privatization program. In this latter phase of the



Page 21
privatization program, some of the major remaining state-owned enterprises will be tackled with the
intended result of lowering state-ownership in industry to less than 40% of previously owned government
enterprises.
This component will ensure that the current privatization unit has the capacity to administer the
upcoming privatization program and provide the technical assistance in the legal, financial, and sector-
specific industries during the course of privatization. The component will finance the technical skills
needed to bring to point of sale the identified state-owned enterprises in the privatization plan and put in
place procedures for facilitating public share offers for the privatized entities. Funds will be used to
develop and implement safeguards to protect interests of laborers/employees of privatized enterprises
through stock options, contract continuity clauses, and severance plans; to implement environmental
safeguards, and to issue regulations for the protection of small investors participating in privatization
share offerings. The component will target the modernization of the reporting and record keeping of
state-owned assets with a view toward providing consolidated financial accounts of all public enterprises
in a common holding company. Through the privatization unit, the program will also build up the
Government's strategy to of publicizing of enterprise investment opportunities through broad
international disclosure.
Under this component, entities to be privatized include: Bermine (bauxite mining); Linmine
(bauxite mining); Guyana Pharmaceuticals, Seals & Packaging; Glassworks Industrial Park; Ruimveldt
Industrial park; Wauna Palm Oil Estate; and Quality Foods. Final ownership transfer of the Guyana
Electric Co., begun during the previous privatization phase, will aim to be finalized during 1999, and
work on privatizing Linmine has been proceeding with an identified strategic investor for the power plant
and invitation to investors for the mining operation. The program will also include the re-offer of entities
which did not receive sufficient bidders earlier. These include Guyana Stores, National Printers, and the
Versailles Dairy Complex. The plan also includes the privatization of: Hope Coconut Industries; the
Surapana Farm (sale of shares to workers); and the Bauxite Industrial Development Corporation
Properties. The program, also includes the privatization of Guyana Airways, as well as the restructuring
GNCB and evaluation of future ownership options. Restructuring of the remaining public enterprises
would also be supported.
3. Project Component 3: Public Sector Business Services: Improve the public sector business
environment to enable greater efficiency and execution of transactions with the private sector -
US$1.25 million (base cost): This component will help modernize the framework and procedures
covering procurement and bidding for public sector contracts executed by private suppliers and to
establish the registry of the local construction industry for this purpose. This component will also involve
preparation of a new procurement bill, deploying technical experts to work under the terms of reference
agreed with IDA. The component will also help in the definition of regulations under the procurement
law including standard bidding documents, pre-qualification processes, evaluation procedures/controls,
contract forms, and procurement manuals, guidelines and procedures for the public sector. With a new
procurement framework, programs for dissemination of the new framework and regulations, as well the
new administrative and information tools for their implementation will be prepared. The component will
also help strengthen the public sector audit capability in the Auditor Generals' Office in terms of meeting
business standards based on commercial, international practice, and multilateral institution requirements,
as well as to improve and document procedures and timeliness in audit reporting, and develop operational
and performance auditing techniques. It will also be used to finance the modernization and
implementation of a new public sector human resource management and payroll budget system which
will comply with Y2K requirements, so as to ensure a smooth transition of this key public sector function
before the start of calendar year 2000.



Annex 2a
Guyana
Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Project Budget Component Summary
Compo-   Objectives                Project Outputs                                                                                                    Budget
nent /                                                                                                                                                 ($4.8
Sector                                                                                                                                                 mn.)
$1.3
Financial  Strengthening the       Banking Sector                                                                                                       mn.
Sector    financial sector and     * (a) development of procedures and legal steps for dealing with corrective actions and resolution of troubled banks and
private participation     implementation of standards in financial reporting standards for banks, (b) improving the regulatory framework for merchant
therein, via upgrading of    banks, trusts and other non-banks, and (c) restructure GNCB under international management team, evaluate net worth, and
the regulatory and        implement plan for future ownership options.
institutional framework
for the banking, non-   Insurance and Securities Markets
bank, insurance and     * Development of regulations, and technical support for the insurance and securities sectors, and establishment of regulatory
securities sectors.       bodies therefor.
$2.0
Private    Augment private sector   Privatization Program                                                                                               mn.
Sector    participation in the     * Upgrading capacity of the Privatization Unit to administer the upcoming privatization program, providing technical assistance
Develop-  economy through            in the legal, financial, and industry-specific companies in the course of public enterprise privatization;
ment      privatization of public
enterprises using policies  * Design of policies to protect interests of laborers/employees of privatized enterprises through stock options and severance
conducive to business     plans, put in place environmental safeguards, and development of procedures to facilitate public share offerings in the local
investment.               capital market.
$1.5
Public    Improve public sector    Public Sector Business Services                                                                                      mn.
Sector    service delivery to      * strengthen the public sector audit capacity, and audit reporting standards for multilateral projects; and upgrade the public
Business   enable greater efficiency    procurement process.
Services   and transparency in
execution, and to support  * modernize and implement a new Y2K compliant public sector human resource management / payroll budget tracking system.   Po
private sector
transactions.



Annex 2b
GUYANA - FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN & PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Project Components       TARGET DATES FOR   PRODUCT  DELIVERY   AND   COMPLETION   OF SERVICES                                Outcome
and Activities                                                                                                                Indicators and
Prior actions taken                                                                                 Responsible
through 1999                    2000                     2001                     2002            Agencies
1. Financial Sector
Development
a. Banking Sector   Modernized Financial          Consulting contracts in    Approve and issue new    Incorporate / enforce new   Reduction in the
Regulatory          Institutions Act (FIA) covering    place for technical expertise  regulatory circulars under  regulations into the  level of non
Development         banking institutions, approved,   in areas of           the Financial Institutions   banking supervision  performing loans
Enforcement         in line with Basle capital                               Act, or other relevant  inspection cycle.        and assets in the
adequacy and credit exposure    a. Methods and policies for  regulations specifying:                      fnancial system
standards.                    dealing with insolvent and                         IDA review of process to  (Central Bank and
illiquid banks;           a. A priori defined      ensure coverage and     Ministry of
Banking supervision and                                 procedural framework for  application of new      Finance).
inspection capability         b. International banking  central bank action in  reporting procedures and
strengthened. Regular         accounting and reporting  dealing with failing     compliance with          Consolidation,
inspection cycle implemented.    standards;             banks, including defined   prudential financial  restructuring and
sanctions for non-      indicators (exposure     rationalization of
Bank of Guyana Act granting   c. Regulation of merchant   compliance and corrective  limits, capital/liquidity    financial institutions
independence to the central bank  banks, trusts, and foreign  actions.           requirements for banks    to meet new
approved, and provisions for  exchange operators.                                and non-banks,           prudential
recapitalization of the central                         b. Bank accounting       provisioning criteria, and   requirements
bank, effected.               Development of regulatory   reporting regulations  adherence to Basle core   (Central Bank and
framework and regulatory    specifying treatment of    principles).        Ministry of
amendments addressing the   non-accrued income (and                        Finance).
above areas, in process.  accrual reversals),
reporting of loss                                Incorporation of
provisions, asset classes                        new bank
to determine capital                             accounting reporting
adequacy, loan security,                         norms and
and 'off balance sheet'                          verification of
contingent liabilities.                          prudential
requirements for
c. Issuance of prudential                       merchant banks,
regulations governing                            trusts, and forex
capital, exposure, and                           operators as part of
fiduciary duties of                              supervision and
specified non-bank                               inspection cycle
______ ______________________________   __________________        financial  instfinancial institutions.           (IDA     and  CB).
Page 1



Project Components      TARGET DATES FOR   PRODUCTS DELIVERY   AND   COMPLETION   OF SERVICES                                Outcome
and Activities                                                                                                              Indicators and
Prior actions taken                                                                                Responsible
_____ __________       through 1999                    2000                     2001                     2002           Agencies
b. Bank             All state-owned fiancial      Internationally experienced   Full implementation of                      Improvement in
Restructuring       institutions except GNCB      restructuring/management    GNCB decision                                  capital position,
(which has 18% of total deposits  team for the Guyana  underway, based on                               profitability, and net
in the financial system), were  National Cooperative Bank   optimizing earnings                         worth of GNCB in
brought to point-of-sale,    is operating - assessment of capacity, and                                 compliance with
privatized and/or liquidated,  bank's financial condition,   strengthening capacity of                  prudential
These included Guyana Bank for  asset & net worth valuation   the bank in line with                     regulations
Trade and Industry (GBTI),   completed and submitted to  increased private sector                       (Ministry of
National Bank of Industry and    Government and IDA. New   participation and                            Finance).
Commerce (NBIC), GNCB        lending to defaulting     management.
Trust, the merger of GAIBANK   borrowers halted, and strict                                             GNCB returning to
w/GNCB, the Guyana           credit approval procedures   Complete privatization                        profitable net
Cooperative Home Mortgage    put in place.             and/or other actions                             earnings position,
Bank, and the Guyana                                   agreed for management                            reduced share of non
Cooperative Insurance Company  Financial restructuring &  and ownership of GNCB.                        performing loan
(GCIS).                      improvement plan                                                           portfolio, and
implemented with                                                          increased collections
A restructuring/management   performance bencmunarks to                                                 on defaulting loans
team contract was signed with   itnprove earnings capacity                                              (MoF).
the Government, for the      of bank.
improvement of the financial
condition of GNCB.           Registration of the bank
under the Companies Act in
lieu of registration under the
COFA Act.
Submission to Cabinet of
policy paper on GNCB
restructuring, privatization,
and/or ownership options
with fnancial feasibility
projections and future
operation of the bank.
Decision by Cabinet on
ownership options/policies
to be taken.
Page 2



Project Components        TARGET  DATES  FOR   PRODUCTS DELIVERY   AND   COMPLETION   OF SERVICES                                      Outcome
and Activities                                                                                                                         Indicators and
Prior actions taken                                                                                        Responsible
through 1999                      2000                       2001                       2002            Agencies
c. Insurance Sector    Draft Insurance legislation    Appointment, budgeting,     Full implementation of     Implementation of         Supervisory
Regulatory Reform.    completed and presented to      and staffing of Office of   inspection cycle for       quarterly industry        monitoring system
Cabinet and Parliament for      Insurance Commissioner.    insurance industry, and    reporting system by the    institutionalized.
Approval.                                                   evidence of supervisory    Insurance Commissioner.  Industry rationalized
Development of              capacity, information                                to promote private
implementing insurance      processing systems        Implementation of off-site  participation with
regulatory circulars        implementation, staffing    evaluation of industry's    secure capital base
governing minimum           skills, and enforcement of  financial statistics,    (MoF, Pvtzn. Unit).
capitalization, solvency   industry submissions of    solvency condition,
requirements, underwriting   insurance returns        capitalization, and PML    Insurance industry
standards, tax regime,      (financial statements,    valuation of risk portfolio.  financial data
allowances for investment    reports).                                           available on a timely
of assets, reinsurance                                                           basis for financial
security, and conditions for                                                     sector oversight
revoking licenses.                                                               (MoF).
d Securities Sector    Draft Securities Market        Establishment of budget and  Amend regulations of the   Operational system in    Development of a
regulatory reform.    legislation presented to Cabinet   staffing for the new     Capital Issues Act, the    place for securities      transparent and
and Parliament for approval.    Securities Council.         Financial Institutions Act,  monitoring and          enabling regulatory
and the Companies Act,   information system for     environment for
Development of              to make them compatible  tracking trades and         increasing the
implementing securities     with prospectus           market prices of publicly   availability and
regulations covering public   requirements and        traded securities in the  liquidity of longer
issuance disclosure         securities registration   primary and secondary      term financing
requirements, capital       procedures under the new   markets.                  instruments in the
requirements and operating   Securities Regulatory                               capital markets
criteria for licensed dealers   framework.            Operational system in      (MoF, Pvtzn. Unit).
and brokers.                                          place for standardized
Begin implementation of   registry of securities.   Increase in capital
Implement transparency and  supervisory and securities                           financing
insider trading prohibitions   market off-site tracking                          instruments to fund
for investor protection.    systems.                                             domestic investment
enterprises.
3. Private Sector                                                                                                                                                e
Development                                                                                                                                                      PQ
a Privatization of    In the first phase of privatization   Contract consultant   Bring to the point of sale   All public enterprises  Transfer of               (D
Public Enterprises    up through 1992, the privatized    expertise to provide     the following enterprises:   offered for sale or lease,    productive assets   v
under a Conducive &   sectors/industries included:    technical assistance in the    (a) Hope Coconut        transferred to private    and enterprises to
Transparent Business  timbers, telephone/telecom,     privatization program for:    Industries; (b) Surapana    ownership with proceeds   private ownership to
Environment           trade, leather, livestock, paint,    financial profitability  Farm (sale of shares to    received by Government.  augment the private
transport, foods, fisheries, rice  analysis, asset and net worth  workers); and (c) Bauxite                      sector's contribution
Page 3



Project Components       TARGET  DATES FOR   PRODUCTS DELIVERY   AND   COMPLETION   OF SERVICES                                   Outcome
and Activities                                                                                                                    Indicators and
Prior actions taken                                                                                    Responsible
through 1999                     2000                      2001                     2002            Agencies
milling & marketing, and       valuation, share issuance  Industrial Development                            and participation in
soaps/detergents. Subsequently   procedures, legal contracts,   Company Properties.  Small Investor         the economy, while
in the period ending in 1997,  and sector specific        Consolidate the register of  Protection: Issue    improving the
five state-owned financial    regulatory provisions.      public enterprises'      orders/regulations under   overall management
institutions were privatized (see   Initiate privatization  financial accounts into a    the Securities Act, for  and profitability of
financial sector above). Non-  program: offer for sale or  government holding      small investor protection   such enterprises
financial institutions privatized   lease, leading to transfer of   company and corporatize   including: (a) ensuring  (MoF, Privatization
or offered for sale/long term  ownership of enterprises   financial management of   share offers to all     Unit).
lease, included GNEC           and long term leaseholds to  these enterprises by   shareholders during
engineering / mechanical shops,  the private sector, for the  systematizing reporting of  takeovers; (b) requiring a   Ensuring a
Demerrara distillers, Forte Crest  following entities:   financial and performance  priori announcements of   sustainable
hotel, Glassworks, Neocol edible                          data.                    takeover intention to    institutional capacity
oils, Guyana Stockfeeds, Sanata  (a) Bermine (bauxite                              ensure price transparency,  for conducting
Textiles, GEC Electricity Co.,    mining), (b) Limnine    Under agreements         (c) setting out rules for  privatization
Bel-lu claybrick factory, Linden   (bauxite), (c) Guyana  covering privatization of   clearing and settlement of  operations in
wharf, and East Bank Demerrara  Pharmaceuticals, (d) Seals   public enterprises,   securities, (d) setting out   Guyana, including
properties.                    & Packaging; (e)           provisions in effect and  ethics rules for dealers  market valuations of
Glassworks Industrial Park;  implemented for sale of    and brokers, (e) setting  state owned assets,
The privatization of the Guyana   (f) Ruimveldt Industrial  minority share interests to  out disclosure rules for  capability for
Electric Company has reached    park; (g) Wauna Palm Oil   employees, transfer of  dealers and brokers.     conducting
its final stages with the      Estate; (h) Quality Foods,    employee contracts with                        competitive bids for
Commonwealth Development    and (i) Guyana Airways.       appropriate terms and                             ownership transfers
Corporation (following the     Re-offer for sale: (j) Guyana  conditions, and maintain                      to potential
earlier withdrawal of Sask of  Stores, (k) National Printers,  severance payment terms                      investors, and
Canada, the originally selected    and (1) Guysuco Versailles   as prior per union                          setting out a
investor), and the sale will be  Dairy Complex, which did   agreements.                                     conducive
legally concluded in 1999.     not receive sufficient                                                       environment for
bidders in the last round of   Develop and implement                         corporate
In total, the entities divested  offers.                 procedures for                                    restructuring and
represented over 60% of public                            standardization and                               investor
sector assets held by the      Cabinet decision taken     facilitation of public share                      participation (MoF,
government at the initiation of    regarding ownership    offers for privatized                             Privatization Unit).
the process.                   options/privatization of   enties.
GNCB.
4. Public Sector
Business Services
a Modernize the      IDA has conducted and          Complete development and   Develop and implement   Institutionalization of    Efficient public
Public Procurement   discussed with Government, a    drafting of the new       administrative tools,    administrative system for  procurement system
Framework            comprehensive country-wide     procurement law, and       procedures, and          public procurement and    to increase
procurement assessment and     endorsement by Cabinet,    information systems for    contractor registry    competitive private
issued reformn recommendations.  including provisions for  implementation of the   procedures.              sector participation
Page 4



Project Components      TARGET DATES FOR   PRODUCTS DELIVERY   AND   COMPLETION   OF SERVICES                                Outcome
and Activities                                                                                                              Indicators and
Prior actions taken                                                                                Responsible
__________________   through 1999                2000                     2001                    2002            Agencies
transparency in advertising   procurement regulations.                     in the economy and
for bids, controls on third  Restructuring of the  Develop and implement a  assure transparency
party interests evaluating  central tender Board.  national               in allocation of
bids, and clear evaluation                        Worker's/Contractor's    public resources.
and selection procedures &    Approval of standard  registry.
criteria.                 bidding documents.
b. Strengthen the   Areas for strengthening the   Contract consultants to   Production of auditing  Development and          Build up of
Public Audit Function  public audit function and gaps in  upgrade the capacity and  procedures and manuals,  implementation of  government and
multilateral project audit   define reporting standards    and implementation of  operational and       private sector audit
reporting, identified.       of the AG. Implement      revised auditing standards  performance based audit   capacity to support
procedures for meeting    and guidelines for      techniques to supplement  public and private
standards of multilateral  commercial, institutional,  financial reviews of major  sector disclosure of
development agency project  and multilateral project    projects including public  financial
audits.                  audits.                  works.                  information.
Audit reports submitted in  Sustained auditing
timely fashion for      capacity in public sector
WB/multilateral         and certification of
development project     international auditing
accounts, including     standards.
requisite financial
management and
reporting requirements.
c. Upgrade the      Identification, short listing, and   Payroll budget system  Implementation of   Permanent system         Modernized
Public Sector's     evaluation of potential       implemented and operating   integrated payroll,   operating and            information
Human Resource      consulting contractors carried  with Y2K compliance.    accounting, and budget    maintenance technical    infrastructure in
Payroll Budget      out, and incorporation of Y2K  Compatible budget and    system.                  staff in place.         place to support
System and Project    compliance mandate in t.o.r.'s.   accounting classifiers in                                            public sector
Financial                                         place.                    Project financial       Project operating under    management process
Management/         Project unit staff with functional                      management data on      LACI procedures, with    and improvement in
Accounting System   responsibilities in financial  Project financial        contracts, project costs,    audits unqualified.  cost effectiveness of
management and procurement,   management modules       activities, special account                      public resources.
designated.                  integrated and initial project  balances, and outputs
management reports        used as a basis for credit
0Q
produced.                 disbursement requests.                                                  oc
Page 5



Page 28
Annex 3
Finance & Private Sector InstitLtional Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Local                   Foreign                    Total
Project Component                          IDA    Gov't  Total      IDA    Gov't  Total    IDA        Gov't   Total
Financial Sector                          0.33    0.05    0.38      0.98    0.16    1.14      1.30    0.22     1.52
1. Strengthen financial sector oversight and
broaden regulatory framework to
financial sub-sectors (non-banks, insurance,
securities, and foreign exchange).
Private Sector Development                 0.45    0.08    0.53     1.35    0.23    1.58     1.80     0.30    2.10
2. Augment private sector participation and
implement regulatory frameworks for
privatized sectors.
Public Sector and Business Services       0.31    0.05    0.36      0.94    0.16    1.09      1.25    0.21     1.46
3. Improve public sector service delivery for
greater efficiency and execution of private
sector transactions.
Total                                      1.09    0.18    1,27     3.26    0.54    3.81     4.35     0.73     5.08
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                  0.05    0.01    0.05     0.14    0.02    0.16     0.18      0.03    0.21
Price Contingencies                     0.07    0.01    0.08     0.20    0.03    0.24     0.27      0.05    0.32
Total Project Cost                         1.20    0.20    1.40     3.60    0.60    4.21     4.80     0.80    5.60



Guyana: Finance and Private Sector Institutional Development Project                       Annex 3a
Credit Budget and Cost Tables including PPF ($US)                                Page I of 2
Consultants    Goods   Operating Exp.    Total
I. Financial Sector Component
Bankinz Sector RegZulation
1. Development of procedural framework for resolution of troubled      $140,000                                $140,000
banks, and sanctions for non-compliance
2. Implementation of standard reporting methods and financial           $60,000     $30,000                     $90,000
accounting for banks and financial institutions
3. Improvement in the regulatory framework for merchant (investment)   $100,000     $30,000                    $130,000
banks, trusts, and foreign exchange operations
Bank Restructuring
4. Restructuring the state-owned bank under an international           $630,000     $50,000       $70,000      $750,000
restructuring/management team: Improvement in financial condition,
valuation of net worth and determination of future ownership options
Capital Market and Non-Bank Regulatory Development
5. Development of regulations, directives, and technical support for    $55,000     $15,000       $10,000       $80,000
implementing new supervisory body for the securities market
6. Development of regulations, directives, and technical support for    $85,000     $15,000       $10,000      $110,000
implementing new supervisory body for the insurance industry
Sub-Total Component                                               $1,070,000    $140,000      $90,000     $1,300,000
II. Private Sector Development Component
Privatization Progyram
7. Support implementation capacity and core functions of the          $1,230,000    $90,000      $100,000     $1,420,000         w
Privatization Unit, including technical, legal and financial functions
8. Development of procedures for facilitating public share offers for   $60,000     $10,000                     $70,000
privatized entities



Guyana: Finance and Private Sector Institutional Development Project                      Annex 3a
Credit Budget and Cost Tables including PPF ($US)                               Page 2 of 2
Consultants    Goods   Operating Exp.    Total
9. Consolidating and corporatizing financial accounts of public         $50,000    $40,000       $30,000      $120,000
enterprises in a common holding company
Private Sector Business Environment and Social Protection Measures
10. Implementation of environmental safeguards prior to privatization, including  $60,000  $10,000  $20,000    $90,000
environmental audits & identification of enterprise environmental liabilities
11. Implementation of policies to protect interests of laborers/employees  $40,000                             $40,000
of privatized enterprises
12. Development and implementation of measures for protecting small    $40,000    $15,000         $5,000       $60,000
investors participating in privatization share offerings
Total Sub-Component                                              $1,480,000   $165,000      $155,000     $1,800,000
III. Public Sector Business Services Component
Service Delivery and Business Environment
13. Modernize the framework and procedures for procurement/bidding    $120,000     $30,000       $15,000      $165,000
for public sector contracts
14. Strengthen and upgrade standards for the public sector auditing    $70,000    $30,000       $10,000       $110,000
capability and public audit reporting
15. Implement a new public sector human resource management and       $630,000   $315,000       $30,000       $975,000
payroll budget tracking system
Total Sub-Component                                                $820,000   $375,000       $55,000     $1,250,000
Physical Contingencies                                             $180,000                               $180,000           X
Price Contingencies                                                $270,000                               $270,000          (D
TOTAL CREDIT                                                         $3,820,000    $680,000     $300,000    $4,800,000



Page 31
Annex 4
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
$US Millions
Cash flows from
Credit Financing & Fiscal Factors          Financial Cash Flows and Proceeds under the Project
Note: Given that this project is for the most part, a technical assistance operation, the parameters listed
reflect reasonable (but not targeted) estimates of potential financial and fiscal impacts. These are not meant
to reflect a full analysis of all indirect costs and alternative scenarios. The primary objective is the improvement
of the financial & business environment to result in increased private investment and participation in the economy.
Present value of cash flows from          Present value of proceeds from privatization of public enterprises
credit disbursement and repayment       net of gov't. liabilities on such entities = $7.7 mn.
of principal and service charges
= $3.1 mn.                                      In current value terms, proceeds from enterprises being
privatized, conservatively estimated as follows, for the
Present value of cash flows from                  first round to sales (in current dollar terms):
credit repayment and service
charges = -$0.51 mn.                                    National Printers     $0.56
Guyana Stores        $2.80
Fiscal/Economic Factors:                                  G. Stores Properties    $4.20
Tax Proceeds: Following privatiza-                      Ruimnveldt Industrial   $1.90
tion, present value of tax proceeds                     Other Ent./Prop.      $1.40
based on steady state (i.e.: zero                         Sub-total           $10.9
equity growth) of privatized
entities = $1.4 mn.                     While a number of other entities are earmarked for privatization under
the project, some of these (e.g.: mining companies) do not yield net
Present value of government             proceeds to the government, but instead, cancel out the outstanding
counterpart budget funding allo-        liabilities of the government as a result of the sale. For other entities,
cated under the project = $0.61 mn.     cash flows are uncertain, and so are not included herein. The estimates
therefore, are extremely conservative and are likely underestimated.
PV of all financial cash flows, under the project, including financing & budget outlays = $6.58 mn.
PV of all cash flows taking into account fiscal factors and potential tax proceeds = $7.94 mn.
Memo Item: Total cost of project (including IDA funds) = $5.6 mn.
Assumptions
a. Discount rate used for PV =12%. This reflects the government's cost of capital for issuance of securities and
expected minimum rate of investment / opportunity cost of capital in Guyana for private enterprise.
b. IDA commitment fee assumed waived as at present. Service charge continues at 0.75%. Maturity is
40 yrs. with 10 yrs. grace.
c. Exchange rate assumed at G$ 180 / 1 $US; i.e., reflecting recent rate. The average rate over the last four
years, however, has been G$ 140, therefore utilization of the current rate conservatively underestimates potential
value of proceeds in local currency.
d. Corporate tax rate assumed at present rate, i.e., 45%, for estimating future govermnent tax proceeds.
e. Following privatization, return on equity of concerns estimated conservatively at 6% (return on assets at 1%).



Page 32
Annex 5
Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ millions)
Implementation Period          Operational Period
2000    2001      2002     2003    2004    2005   2006
Project Costs
Investment Costs       1.0      1.3     2.2        0.1    0.1      0.1      0.1
Recurrent Costs        0.1      0.2     0.8        0.4    0.4      0.4      0.4
Total                1.1     1.5      3.0       0.5    0.5      0.5      0.5
Financing Sources (share
of total project costs)
IDA                    0.9      1.3     2.6        -       -        -       -
Co-financiers
Government             0.2      0.2     0.4        0.5    0.5      0.5      0.5
User
Fees/Beneficiaries
Total                1.1     1.5      3.0       0.5    0.5      0.5      0.5



Page 33
Annex 6
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Procurement, Financial Management, and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the
components to be financed by the World Bank are shown in Table A. All IDA-financed, equipment and
materials and consultant services would be procured under the World Bank guidelines for selection and
employment of consultants (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999), and the
guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999).
Goods and equipment would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for all
contracts costing US$ 100,000 and above, using World Bank Standard Bidding Documents. Goods and
equipment valued between US$ 25,000 and < 100,000 per contract would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) up to an aggregate amount of US$350,000. Contracts valued at less than
US$ 25,000 would be awarded through National and International Shopping (NIS), up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 210,000. National and International Shopping should be based on at least three price
quotations.
Consultant and training services under the project's technical assistance component would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, using Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures with allowance for
contracting of individual consultants for specified project components, not exceeding $1.10 million in
aggregate contract value. Single source selection would be permitted in exceptional cases where
technical continuity and specialized expertise is required to meet time-bound targets under the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts awarded through ICB would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The threshold
for prior review for consulting services would be US$ 100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and
US$ 25,000 for contracts with individuals. Terms of reference for all consultant services would be
reviewed by IDA, independent of the threshold amounts, and terms of employment for individual
consultants costing less than $25,000 would be reviewed. The contract review arrangements are
summarized in Table B.
Disbursements
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed credit would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C.
The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of about 3 years, and the project would be
completed by June 30, 2002. The closing date is December 31, 2002.



Page 34
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements out of the Special Account for contracts below the prior review threshold would
be made on the basis of SOEs. Documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs would be
maintained by the Ministry of Finance, and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
Special account.
To facilitate disbursements, a special account (SA) would be established by the Borrower in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The SA would be maintained by the
Ministry of Finance as a separate identifiable account to be used exclusively for project expenditures.
IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$400,000. Initially, and until total
disbursements reach SDR 1.0 million, the allocation would be limited to US$200,000. Replenishment
applications would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20% of the initial deposit has been
utilized, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary
documentation, i.e. a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA
records. The SA and SOEs would be audited annual by independent examiners acceptable to IDA, and a
report be submitted to IDA within 4 months after the end of the fiscal year.
LACI Disbursement Procedures
Traditional disbursement procedures (receipt, invoice, SOE based) will be utilized at the outset
and until the project's financial management system is sufficiently developed to support use of LACI
procedures. A financial management assessment has been conducted and IDA has agreed with the
Borrower on a time bound action plan to implement an adequate project financial management system.
Following the first year of project implementation and submission by the borrower of initial project
management reports (PMRs), the task team and financial management specialists will assess the project's
readiness to adopt full LACI procedures and prepare quarterly financial reports for ex-post audit, prior to
next disbursements. At that time the disbursement procedures would be expected to switch to LACI
(gross disbursements based on quarterly financial statements and projected funding needs) for the
remaining term of the project.



Page 35
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ '000 equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method            Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB        NIS       NBF
1. Consultants                        See  Annex6,  TableAl                   4,440
(3,820)
2. Goods                            230       350       210                    790
(200)     (300)     (180)                 (680)
Total
Note:
NBF = Not IDA-Financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). Figures
in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
NIS = National and International Shopping



Page 36
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ '000 equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                   (including
Expenditure Category                                                                 contingencies)
QCBS    QBS       SFB      LCS      SSS    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                   2,265                              1,105                      3,330
(1,925)                            (940)                     (2,865)
B. Individuals                                                         1,110             1,110
(955)            (955)
Total                                                               4,440
(3,820)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS - Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
SSS = Single Source Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 37
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value    Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)        Method       Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                        US $ millions
1. Goods
100,000 +          ICB             yes ($230,000)
25,000 to< 100,000    NCB              yes ($350,000)
<25,000           NIS              no ($210,000)
3. Services
Consultancy by firms         200,000 +          QCBS            yes ($1,265,000)
100,000 - <200,000    QCBS            no ($1,000,000)
SSS            yes ($1,105,000)
Consultancy by individuals     25,000 +       Guidelines        Yes ($620,000)
< 25,000         section 5        No ($490,000)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  3,570,000



Page 38
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in         Financing
US$ millions &     Percentage
(SDR equivalent)
1. Consultants                                     2.57              100%
(1.88)
2. Goods                                           0.68        100% of foreign
(0.50)      expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
3. Project Operating Expenses                      0.30              85%
(0.22)
4. PPF                                             0.80
(0.59)
5. Unallocated                                     0.45
(0.31)
Total                                               4.80
(3.50)



Page 39
Annex 7
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$65,500             $51,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         7                   9
First Bank mission (identification/preparation)  10/12/98            10/12/98
Preparation/Pre-appraisal mission               1/25/99              1/25/99
Appraisal mission departure                     5/15/99              7/18/99
Negotiations                                    9/30/99              9/28/99
Estimated Approval Date                         11/1/99              11/16/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/30/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance
Preparation assistance: Project Preparation Facility
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
John Pollner (LCSFP)                  Financial Sector/Privatization
Raj Nallari (LCC3C)                        Macroeconomics
Sati Achath (Consultant)                      Public Sector
Lorelei Buntua (FRM)                  Project Management Systems
Reynaldo Pastor (LEGLA)                           Legal
Edward Daoud (LOAEL)                Disbursements/Financial Management
Daniel Boyce (LCOAA)                      Financial Management
Luz Zeron (LCOAA)                        Financial Management
Maria Victoria Lister (LCSFP)                 Quality Assurance
Robert Crown (LCOQE)                      Project Quality Review
Vladimir Jadrijevic (LCOPR)                     Procurement
Omprakash Singh (Consultant)                      Insurance
Khadija Bah (Consultant)             Social Analysis - Land Privatization
Violeta Tan (LOAEL)                         Disbursements



Page 40
Annex 8
Guyana: Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan / Output Indicators
B. Project Operational Manual
C. Report on Banking Supervisory Procedures - Assessment of Standards, and Capabilities
D. Report/Assessment on the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB)
E. Evaluation Report on the Second Phase of the Privatization Program
F. Financial Management Report - Assessment of Systems and Institutional Capacity
G. Country Procurement Assessment Report
H. Environmental Data Sheet



Page 41
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guyana
IDA/IBRD Operations Portfolio
at September 30, 1999
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year          Borrower              Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancellations Undisb.
Number of Closed Projects: 24
Active Projects
Cr. 3139-0    1999  GOV'T. OF GUYANA           GUYANA "EL NINO"                   0.00      9.00      0.00        8.38
Cr. 2879-0    1996  GOVERNMENTOF               SECONDARY EDUCATION                0.00     17.30      0.00       13.91
GUYANA
Cr. 2559-0    1994  GOVT OF GUYANA             WATER/SEWERAGE                     0.00     17.50      0.00        9.88
Total                                                                             0.00     43.80      0.00       32.17
Active Projects    Closed Projects     Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and                10.8           305.52           316.32
IDA):
of which has been repaid:             0.00           125.16           125.16
Total now held by IBRD and              43.80           213.91           257.71
IDA:
Amount sold:                              0.00             .77              .77
Of which repaid:                        0.00             .77              .77
Total Undisbursed:                       32.10            3.76            35.86



Page 42
Annex 9b
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of August 31, 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic.
1998                  SEF IDS                  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic.
1998                  GUYAM BANK               7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF CARA LODGE          0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           7.68    1.00    0.00    0.00



Page 43
Annex 10: Guyana at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle.
Guyana   & Carlb.  Income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millons)                        0.85       494     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Adlas method, US$)                    800      3,880      1230
GNP (Aflas method, US$ billions)                      0.68     1,917     2,818                       T
Average annual growth, `991-97
Population%)                                           1.0       1.7        1.2
Labor force (%J                                        2.0       2.3        1.3     GNP          /                  Gross
per              -             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capia              //       enrollment
Poverty (% of populatfon below natfonal poverty line)
Urban population f% of total population)               37         74        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       64         70        69
Infant nmdality (per 1,000 live births)                58         32        36
Child malnutrhion (% of children under 5)               1S        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populatfon)                 61         73        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    2         13        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoot.age population)  94        111       111               Guyana
Male                                                 95         ..       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               93                  113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976          1986  1998     '997   |i Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billons)                            0.45     0.50      0.72      0.78
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                37.5     401       30.4      32.2                     Trade
Exports of goods artd services/GOP           66.1     46.3     100.8     100.2
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   12.5     33.2      25.3      23.1
Gross national savingslGDP                     ..       ..      21.9      18.1
Cunrent account balanceiGDP                    ..        .       -9,3    -14.5      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         4.4      3.2       4.1       6.4      Savings                     Investment
Total debtU6DP                               87.0    323.8     211.3     182.2
Total debt servicelexports                     ..
Present value of detWGDP                       ..       ..    165.1      136.1
Presern vaiue of deWexpot                      ..       ..    182,2    145.5
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97     1996      1997   199802
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -3.2      3.5      7.9       6.2       3.                 Guyana
GNP per capita                      *5.3      7.3     14.7       3.8       4,1                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -4.9      6,1      8.3       9.1       6.0      _                 ___
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  22.7     26.7      35.3      35.0      1 0
Industry                                     35.1     27.1      25.7      25.0      5
Manufacturing                              13.0     14.8        7.0       7.1      o
Services                                     42.1     46.2      39.1      39.5                        94   9 5 97
Private consumption                          59.3     35.3      57.7      58.6    .10
General govemment consumption                28.2     31.5      17.0      18.3               -G01    -          DP
Imports of goods and services                91.0     53.2     105.9     109.3
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%I
Agriculture                                   0.0      7.8       7.7        5.0    30 T
Industry                                     -6.1      4.1      11.3       15.1    20-
Manufacturing                               -3.5    -1.2        2.9       4.0
Services                                     -2.5      2.5       6.1       3.4    10.
Private consumption                          -1.0        .       3.6       5.0      o
General govemment consumption               -10.9       ..       1.1       -1.5      t    92   93   94   95   sr   97
Gross domestic investment                   -12.0      3.0      -5.5        1.0   -10
Imports of goods and services                -6.7      2.0       9.3       6.0             -     Exports   _Im ports
Gross national product                       -4.6      8.1      15.8       4.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 44
Guyana: Basic Facts and Figures
Guyana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             15 T
Consumer prices                                           8.0        7.1       3.6    100
ImplicitGDPdeflator                             -5.8     12.3        3.6       1.1
59
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      s0-_
Current revenue                                  ..    47.0         39.7      36.6              92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            ..   -40.4        15.8       9.4             -      GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..   -55.3         -3.2      -8.8                                                1
TRADE
(USs millions)                                 1976     1986       1996      1997       Export anddimport levels(USSmillions)
( US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..     217        575       592      750
Bauxite                                         ..       61         86        89
Sugar                                           ..       83        151       133      5I       
Manufactures                                    ..       35       234        233
Total imports (cif)                                                 595       642      250
Food                                                                                                  
Fuel and energy                                          74        101
Caprtal goods                                   ..       ..        204                   
91 92   93   94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..       104
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..         .       109         ..                a Exports        Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..        95         ..   |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                    _
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1996      1997   . Currentaccount balanceto GDP ratio(%)
Exports of goods and services                    ..        ..       690       758       0
Irnports of goods and services                             ..       725       827           9   92   93   94   95
Resource balance                                           ..       -35        -68      s 
Net income                                                  ..      -84        -89   I
Net current transfers                                      ..        49        40
Current account balance                           .         .        -70     -117
Financing iems (net)                             ..        ..       -60         -4    !                                      I
Changes in net reserves                          ..        .                           -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                2.5       4.3      140.4     142.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997    j
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            396    1,634       1,522     1,421
IBRD                                           19       78         27        19                    G 92   A 27
IDA                                             5       34        212       218               F: 63             B: 212
Total debt service                               33       75        105        133
IBRD                                            1        5          8         7
IDA                                             0        0          2         2                                        C: 1e3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 0       12         37        30
Official creditors                             27       30         :33       18          E: 639
Private creditors                              30       25          2         -5
Foreign direct investment                     -26        0         81        90
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0         20         4      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   4        6         18        18      B- IDA      -Othermultlateral   F - Pvate
Principal repayments                            0        2          6         6      C - IMF                        G - Short-tern
Net flows                                       4        4         1 0       12                                                 1
Interest payments                               1        3          4         3
Net transfers                                   3        1          6         9
Development Economics                                                                                                      10/11/98



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25723
6W   Maotwhsno
8' a
IN'
GUYANA
<e, \ < J f )R>                                                                            ATLANTIC
4   {j-TOWAKAIMA               /      /  Pickersgij//  d~~~ANNAREGINA
/ 0 RAN 2 || ~~~~~~OCEAN
CA    -REGION 4
REGION 7                        nmXEON 3 ,ECL,
Mine \<S<<  VR~~~~EDEIDN%SED   BiUSH LOT
LNEW AJSTERDAI6
HIEMARA    C  RERN
KEN           FRIENDSH                   Id- (SkoIdon
al 11 c i<~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARAD13l3E1}
+XS CA~~~HOLIG                                               1 0rc ,a9
other information shown
PRIMARY ROADS                                                    ~~~~~~~~~on  this  mop  do  not
iMply, on  the  port of  4'
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                  The World  Bank  Group,
any judgment on the legal
TRACKS                                                 status of any  territory,
RAILROADS                             -,                                               or any  endorsement
NATIONAL CAPITAL                     ,   K enosbo                                      boundaries.
O   TOWNS
* INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT        TH
~z~- RIVERS                           ()
REGION BOUNDARIES
_ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   SAD C >4 K                                  >       \Kt  
WICHAEAI                                                                            1994
X \}\        XREGION 9>       
O   1 0  20  30  40   0          D         )\ AISHALTON 0t2|                           *   
0    2'0  40   60   80          t      j      y                                    C    
KILOMETERS           6               UIP5                           >X     /S<
PANAMA<k    ;UJYANA   ,g  A TLANTIC          ZA/                                          /_ Z
oa J -Y ) ,_,} ~~~B R A Z I L
MARCH 1994



