                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26003

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-32900; PPFI-Q1590)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                              CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA

                                                 FOR A

         FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2003




Caribbean Country Department
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2003)

                         Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar
                               G$ 1.00 = US$ 0.0056
                              US$ 1.00 = G$ 179.00

                               FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1 to  March 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGO       Attorney General's Office
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESOP      Employee Stock Ownership Plan
EU        European Union
FIA       Financial Institutions Act
FISBEC    Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit
FMS       Financial Management System
FPID      Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Credit
GASCI     Guyana Association of Securities Companies and Intermediaries
GCFS      Guyana Cooperative Financial Service (Collection agency)
GEC       Guyana Electricity Company
GNCB      Guyana National Cooperative Bank
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NBIC      National Bank of Industry and Commerce
ODA       Official Development Assistance
PAP       Public Administration Project
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PRGF      Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSDAC     Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TA        Technical Assistance
TAC       Technical Assistance Credit
USDA      United States Department of Agriculture
Y2K       Year 2000 (computer date conversion issue)

                        Vice President:     David de Ferranti
           Country Manager/Director:        Caroline Anstey
            Sector Manager/Director:        Danny Leipziger
                   Task Team Leader:        John Pollner

                                             GUYANA
GUYANA FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
  1. Project Data                                                                    1
  2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
  4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
  5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
  6. Sustainability                                                                13
  7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
  8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
  9. Partner Comments                                                              17
  10. Additional Information                                                       21
  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
  Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
  Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
  Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P057272                                                      Project Name: GY FINANCIAL & PRIVATE
                                                                         SECTOR
Team Leader: John Daniel Pollner                                         TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: GY FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-32900; PPFI-Q1590
   Country/Department: GUYANA                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (73%); Banking (27%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Standards and financial reporting
                            (S); Legal institutions for a market economy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/12/1999                                        Effective: 11/30/1999              12/09/1999
   Appraisal:    06/18/1999                                            MTR: 09/15/2001                09/15/2001
    Approval:    11/16/1999                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      U.K. DFID

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Caroline D. Anstey                                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Danny M. Leipziger                                  Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:        John Pollner                                        John Pollner
ICR Primary Author(s): Alvaro Covarrubias; John Daniel
                           Pollner


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Country background. Guyana has a small open economy with a population of 780,000. It is a
low-income country with per capita income estimated at about US$750. It is thinly populated
with about 4 persons per square kilometer. Most of Guyana's population and economic activities
are concentrated on the narrow coastal strip, which lies below sea level at high tides and is
protected by a series of sea walls. The interior is largely forested and uninhabited, except for
scattered communities of Amerindians. It is well endowed with natural resources, with good
agricultural land and abundant rainfalls, diversified mineral deposits, and large tropical forests.
The economy is basically natural resource-based, with agriculture (mainly sugar and rice), mining
(bauxite and gold), and timber accounting for most of the output in the productive sectors.
Agriculture in the economy accounts for 37 percent of GDP, 40 percent of employment and about
41 percent of export earnings. With the possible exception of the potential for hydroelectricity,
which remains unexplored, the country does not have energy resources and is dependent on oil
imports to meet most of its energy requirements.

Approximately 43 percent of the population lives in poverty, with 29 percent in extreme poverty.
The majority of the poor live in rural areas and extreme poverty is concentrated in the interior
regions. About 50 percent of the population is Indo-Guyanese, 36 percent Afro-Guyanese and 7
percent Amerindian, and the remaining of mixed races. The Indo-Guyanese are strongly
represented in agriculture, professional services and distributive trade while the Afro-Guyanese
live in urban areas and are strongly represented in government, police and mining.

After achieving independence in 1966, Guyana pursued a state interventionist policy of
"cooperative socialism". Following two decades of declining investment and negative growth,
real per capita income declined by over 60 percent by 1988. There was a massive out-migration
of skilled workers and professionals mainly to North America and the United Kingdom. In 1988,
the Government began a radical change process by initiating the economic recovery program that
was supported in April 1989 by an IMF ESAF. The first democratic elections in over two decades
were held in October 1992 when the PPP-Civic coalition took office.

The Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Project (FPID) ­ the subject of this
ICR ­ follows the Financial Sector and Business Environment Project (FISBEC) financed by IDA
Credit 2669-GUA. The latter had became effective in July 1995 and by 1997 had shown limited
but satisfactory achievements in the fronts of financial sector development, privatization of public
enterprises, and public sector business services, as indicated next.

The banking sector regulatory framework had been endowed with the modernized Financial
Institutions Act (FIA) covering banking institutions in line with Basle capital adequacy and credit
exposure standards. Banking supervision and inspection capability had been strengthened and
regular inspection cycle implemented. The Bank of Guyana Act had granted independence to the
central bank and provisions for its recapitalization were effected. However, the FIA still needed to
be reinforced with appropriate regulations and implementation procedures.




                                                 - 2 -

All state-owned financial institutions, except Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB)
--which had 18 percent of total deposits in the financial system-- had been brought to
point-of-sale, privatized and/or liquidated. Improvement of the financial condition of GNCB had
been initiated through a restructuring/management team contract signed with the Government.
Also, drafts for Insurance and Securities Market legislation had been completed and presented to
Cabinet and Parliament for approval.

Over the period of 1993-1998, the first phase of the privatization program had privatized about
60 percent of public sector assets held by the Government at the initiation of the process. It
included: sectors/industries such as timbers, telephone/telecom, trade, leather, livestock, paint,
transport, foods, fisheries, rice milling & marketing, and soaps/detergents and five state-owned
financial institutions. And there was momentum for undertaking a second phase of the
privatization program involving non-financial institutions in the agriculture, industrial and mining
sectors.

Moreover, IDA had discussed with the Government a comprehensive set of measures aiming at
modernizing the public sector business services. The measures comprised a reform of public
procurement (based on a country-wide procurement assessment), a strengthening of the public
audit function, and an upgrading of the Public Sector's Human Resource Payroll Budget System
and Project Financial Management/Accounting System. Also, evaluation of potential consulting
contractors had been carried out.

Taking into account all of the above, IDA and the Government defined the Financial & Private
Sector Institutional Development Project (FPID project) to be financed mostly with an IDA
Credit.

Original Project Objectives: The development objectives of the FPID project were to support the
second phase of institutional reforms aimed at consolidating the measures taken under the
previous structural adjustment and technical assistance programs, in particular under the Private
Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC) and the Financial Sector and Business
Environment Credit (FISBEC). The project's development objectives were to: (i) improve the
regulatory framework of the overall financial sector to support private sector activity and achieve
synergies among the banking, insurance, non-banking, and securities sectors, (ii) assist in the
transfer of state-owned enterprises to the private sector to promote an enterprise led economy,
and (iii) support the modernization of the public sector through improved service delivery in the
areas of procurement, auditing, and public sector management, in order to provide an enabling
transactional environment for private sector business.

The key project performance indicators included: (a) the implementation of a modernized broad
financial sector regulatory framework resulting in the functioning of new regulatory bodies and
evidence of improvement in the performance and strength of financial institutions in line with
international bank accounting and Basle standards including prudential norms for commercial
banks, merchant banks, trusts, and foreign exchange operators; (b) the transfer to the private
sector of a critical mass of state-owned enterprises within an enabling business environment for
both industrial and financial investors; and (c) the modernization of the public sector auditing and



                                                  - 3 -

procurement framework to support the business environment, and implementation of Y2K
compliant systems for public sector management and administrative systems.

Assessment: The project objectives were relevant, as they were to support the Government's
efforts to move the country towards a private sector led economy having an adequate and
efficient government regulatory structures to ensure an enabling business environment with
socially friendly policies. The project objectives reflected the Bank's assistance to the Government
as stated in the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of that time. They also were
synchronous with the technical assistance being provided by multilateral and bi-lateral agencies
(European Union, Inter American Development Bank, and Canadian International Development
Agency) to complement the Government's policy reform. The project's main objective was to
transfer to the private sector the state's assets of several productive enterprises which were
inefficient and delivered low quality services. Private participation, to be sought under the form
of either private ownership or management services, was appropriate since it was to be
complemented with the establishing of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework and the
strengthening of the public service function by building the capacity of the entities to accomplish
their administrative and fiduciary functions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective of the project was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

(a) Financial Sector Development: This component was to involve funding of technical assistance
expertise and technology upgrading to put in place a procedural framework for handling banks
with structural or short term solvency and/or liquidity problems; implement uniform financial
accounting reporting standards and a chart of accounts in the banking sector; update the
regulatory framework to cover merchant banks, trust, foreign exchange traders, and other
non-bank financial institutions; restructure and improve the financial condition of the remaining
state-owned bank including an assessment of privatization options; and develop industry-specific
regulations and directives to make operational the new legal framework and supervisory bodies
for the insurance and securities sectors.

(b) Private Sector Development: This component was to fund technical assistance, training and
equipment to support the second phase of the privatization program to transfer approximately 15
additional state enterprises to the private sector. Besides technical assistance to carry out the
financial, net worth valuation, and legal/contractual aspects of the program, the component was
also to develop, in conjunction with the development of securities sector regulations, a framework
for facilitating the public offering of shares of such enterprises on the market. It was also to fund
work to value the financial accounts of the remaining state enterprises and consolidate them into a
common holding company to facilitate future performance monitoring and readiness for
privatization. The component was also to support the development of policies under the
privatization program to protect laborers' and small investor's interests to ensure fair and socially
equitable treatment of such interests during the privatization process, as well as environmentally
sound safeguards.



                                                  - 4 -

(c) Public Sector Business Services: This component was to fund the development of revised
public procurement procedures and regulations to facilitate the public bidding and contracting
processes, and the establishment of a national contractor's registry. It was also to strengthen and
update the public sector's external auditing capacity to improve standards and timeliness of audits
undertaken for both multilateral investment project credits and public institutions, and to
implement procedures for conducting operational and performance based audit work and training
thereof, under the aegis of the Auditor General's office. The component was also to fund the
modernization of the public sector's payroll budget system, ensure full Y2K compliance, and
allow continuity and efficacy in this key public sector management function.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry was satisfactory. The IDA, via a number of operations starting with the
Structural Adjustement Credit (SAC) and the first Technical Assistance Credit (TAC), and
followed by the FISBEC and the PSDAC, was committed to supporting financial sector,
privatization, capital market development, and public services and policy issues. Since IDA had
the best knowledge of the sectors to be covered by the project, in comparison with the other
donors, it was a logical step for IDA to take leadership in these areas under a technical assitance
operation rather than a sectoral adjustment operation. Since privatization of public assets was the
main project objective, its design took into consideration the experience had in the first phase of
the privatization program and the lessons learned from similar successful operations. Among
these, the project design included measures needed to protect the interests of all stakeholders,
particularly those of workers in the entities to be privatized and small investors interested in
contributing to the domestic market. Thus, the project incorporated the development of policies
to both protect workers' interests in the transistion of ownership of privatized entities, as well as
financial market regulations which adequately were to protect the interests of small investors (the
employees of the privatized entities or individual consumer investors). Regarding the financial
sector, IDA took advantage of Government commitment to the reform of private and financial
sector policies and focused the project on developing the institutional mechanisms which would
allow future policy reforms and/or those that were underway to be implemented and enforced on
the ground. The latter was to be assisted by the development of regulations applicable to
securities trading and disclosure.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of project objectives was positive with some variability across components, but
overall it can be considered that the project met its goals substantially, as indicated below.

Objective (i): To improve the regulatory framework of the overall financial sector to



                                                  - 5 -

support private sector activity and achieve synergies among the banking, insurance,
non-banking, and securities sectors. This objective was partially achieved. The regulatory
framework of the financial sector was improved. The Insurance Act was put in force, the newly
appointed Insurance Commissioner took office in October 2002, the Securities Act was
implemented, and the entities responsible for oversight and self-regulation of the sector were
established (namely the Securities Council and the Guyana Association of Securities Companies
and Intermediaries, GASCI). In the insurance area, the future adequacy of budget resources will
be essential for the new Insurance Commissioner to effectively monitor the sector (for instance
through regular on-site examinations) and fully implement the Insurance Act. Under banking,
selected amendments and/or added regulations under the Financial Institutions Act (FIA) were not
completed, consequently, appropriate procedures for the efficient resolution of potential problem
institutions are yet to be put in place. In the securities area, regulations will need to be adapted to
the realities of Guyana's business environment given the embryonic state of its capital market
(with trading yet to begin), and a self financing institutional model will need to be developed to
ensure adequate future organizational and staffing capacity of the Securities Council. At a later
stage, once securities trading has been active during a period of time, it would be advisable to
make an evaluation of how the operation of the securities and financial sectors are being
conducted and make any adjustments, if needed.

Objective (ii): To assist in the transfer of state-owned enterprises to the private sector to
promote an enterprise led economy. This, the major objective of the project, can be considered
as fully achieved. The project assisted the Government to promote an enterprise led economy by
privatizing 10 public enterprises included in the original privatization program. Some enterprises
were fully sold and others were divested through long term leases thus sharply reducing the role
of the State in various economic sectors. Moreover, two of the largest public entities not
originally included in the privatization program ­ Guyana Electric Company (GEC) and Guyana
National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) ­ were also sold. Alternative solutions are being explored
for privatizing the remaining 5 public entities already offered for sale at least once, and included in
the second phase of the privatization program: Hope Coconut Industries, National Printers,
Bermine, Linmine, and Wauna Palm Oil.

Objective (iii): To support the modernization of the public sector through improved service
delivery in the areas of procurement, auditing, and public sector management.
This objective was substantially achieved. The public sector services delivery in the areas of
auditing and public sector management has been significantly improved, though less in the area of
procurement. The audit examiners and senior staff at the Auditor General's Office (AGO)
underwent the first phase of an on-site training program covering performance and forensic
auditing, and audit report writing. The training has resulted in a substantially improved quality of
audit reports delivered by the AGO, including those under IDA financed projects. A second
phase of the training program (including topics such as government financial management
information systems audits, internal auditor training, and certification of fraud examiners) was not
executed because the Government did not allocate the necessary funds to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in a timely manner.

The public procurement legal framework was substantially modified. A new Procurement Law



                                                  - 6 -

approved in May 2002, was a significant improvement. Based on additional comments by IDA,
despite some delays, agreement was reached with the government to amend the Procurement Law
and substantially improve the efficiency and transparency of public procurement procedures. This
is expected to be passed by mid 2003. Other key features are the establishment of the independent
National Procurement Tender Board, which would report directly to the Parliament, and the
preparation, approval and enforcement of procurement regulations and procedures.

Regarding public sector management, the project assisted the Government in the preparation and
successful implementation of a modern Government Payroll System that is helping to automate
processing, eliminate duplication of records, and incorporate payroll data for the Government
budget planning exercises. Additionally, the Government funded the preparation of a Project
Financial Management System (FMS). Initial implementation difficulties due to the unavailability
of a consultant systems designer to correct specific software technology related problems, were
overcome, and the system was subsequently re-designed and adapted under alternative software
packages.

Assessment. The project intervention made a significant contribution to the privatization of public
assets and an important contribution in setting up a functional institutional framework for
privatization and the management of State properties. Although the project fell short of
reinforcing some banking sector regulations it achieved the implementation of the Insurance and
Securities Acts, the establishing of the Secutities Council, the Association of Dealers and Brokers,
and the nomination of the Insurance Commissioner. Moreover, the project improved the quality
and procedures in public services such as payroll and auditing, and supported changes to public
procurement legislation which will modernize procurement practices and increase both
transparency and efficiency. In sum, taking into account the major achievement in the
privatization progran done under the difficult conditions prevailing in the small and poor economy
surrounding the project execution, the outcome of the project is considered satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The output of the three major project components supporting privatization and regulatory and
institutional development is presented below.

Financial Sector Development: The technical assistance expertise and technology upgrades
funded by the project delivered some of the expected outputs in the insurance and securities
sectors. However, specified regulations for the banking system were not undertaken. These are
detailed below:

Strengthening of the supervisory function for banks and non-banks. The Central Bank is
currently relying on Grant funding from the IDB and the IMF to strengthen its procedures and to
draft amendments to existing regulations. In this context, the Government has financed the
preparation of a uniform financial accounting reporting standards and a chart of accounts in the
banking sector, and a regulatory framework to cover merchant banks, trust, foreign exchange
traders, and other non-bank financial institutions, outputs which will require subsequent technical
reviews to assess their compliance with international standards. It is recommended that this effort
be undertaken based on a comprehensive diagnosis of the financial system, including a banking


                                                 - 7 -

vulnerability diagnostic. A concrete draft amendment to the FIA and associated implementing
procedures is yet to be completed. In the meantime the banking system lacks a fully modernized
procedural framework for handling banks with structural or short term solvency and/or liquidity
problems.

Restructuring the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) and preparation of privatization
options. This was one of the major activities of the project marks a key turning point in Guyana's
financial sector history, as the sale of GNCB to a suitable investor will create a fully privatized
financial system. The Government overcame previous difficulties given the fragile state of
GNCB's finances and put the bank up for sale, this time successfully. A serious bid submitted by
the largest private bank in Guyana (NBIC, owned by Republic Bank of Trinidad) was negotiated
and a sale contract concluded. This agreement included, inter alia, the transfer of assets and
deposits, as well as an interest bearing Government bond to cover the balance sheet gap. A loan
recovery agreement for part of GNCB's remaining good portfolio is expected to be negotiated
with NBIC under a separate asset management contract. The bulk of the non performing loans
will be transferred to Guyana Cooperative Financial Services (GCFS), the Government collection
agency, and expected to be administered under a private asset management contract. This indeed

Insurance sector supervision. The Insurance Act, which had previously been approved by
Parliament, was put in force. After some delays, a new Insurance Commissioner was appointed in
October 2002, and has taken office. The Commissioner has demonstrated strong technical skills.
There are some remaining concerns, given the scarcity of budget resources in Guyana, regarding
the need to support the new Insurance Commissioner's Office with adequate staffing, in order to
effectively monitor the insurance sector through regular on-site examinations and draft additional
regulations to implement all necessary provisions of the Insurance Act. As a first step towards
relieving the resource constraints, the regulatory fees to be charged to insurance companies
allowed by the new law should be implemented. This would contribute to a sustainable and better
funded budget for the Commissioner's Office.

Securities market. The Securities Act is being implemented and the entities responsible for
oversight and self-regulation of the sector have been established, namely, the Securities Council
and the Guyana Association of Securities Companies and Intermediaries (GASCI). However,
trading of securities is still to be initiated and there is the need to develop, based on analysis of
market potential, a stronger self financing institutional model funded by industry participants, to
ensure the sustainability of a future capital market and its supporting infrastructure. The limited
organizational and staffing capacity of the Securities Council could become a source of concern,
because, unless the Council can count on additional resources, this could result in an emerging
capital market, once activated, being operated without sufficient oversight to mitigate potential
trading risks.

Private Sector Development: In terms of project funding, this was the largest component of the
project and was implemented satisfactorily. The technical assistance expertise funded by the
project led to the privatization of 10 state enterprises included in the second phase of the
privatization program and to the privatization of GNCB and GEC, two of the largest enterprises
which were not originally included in that program. A team of international and local experts
carried out the financial, net worth valuation, and legal/contractual aspects of the privatization


                                                    - 8 -

program, and developed policies under the privatization program to protect laborers' and small
investors' interests to ensure fair and socially equitable treatment of such interests during the
privatization process, as well as environmentally sound safeguards. A notable effort was made by
the project to improve the performance of GNCB by hiring an international firm to restructure
and manage it in order to improve its finances up to the point of making the privatization of
GNCB attractive to private investors. This component also funded work to value the financial
accounts of all the remaining state enterprises and consolidate them into a common holding
company to facilitate the monitoring of their future performance and the evaluation of their
readiness for privatization.

The Privatization program. The Table below shows the enterprises privatized. Some entities were
fully sold or divested through long term leases. In addition to the privatization of the entities
included in the privatization program, the Government sold GNCB and the Guyana Electric
Company (GEC) which constitute key players in the banking and electricity sectors, respectively.
As described above, the sale of GNCB was finalized in early 2003. However, in spite of the
numerous attempts and advertisements for sale having been conducted, five enterprises are still
pending to be privatized: Hope Coconut Industries, National Printers, Bermine, Linmine, and
Wauna Palm Oil. In these cases, alternative solutions are being explored. In the case of Linmine,
one of the largest remaining mining entities, the Government recently entered into an arrangement
with Canadian CAMBIOR Mining Co. which is expected to close a purchase deal shortly.

                        Entities under the Privatization Program


               Enterprises             Sector                  G$ millions
                                                    Assets    Liabilities Equity

         Privatized 1999-2003:
         Guysuco Dairy              Agri-based         46         --         46
         Quality Foods              Commercial        n.a.        --        n.a.
         Ruimveldt Indust. Park     Industrial         23         --         23
         Guyana Pharmaceuticals     Commercial        393        279        113
         Guyana Stores Shares       Retail          1,342        600        742
         Seals & Packaging          Commercial      1,391        736        655
         Surapana Farm              Agriculture       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
         Guyana Airways             Transport       1,554        757        797
         Glassworks Indust. Park    Industrial        431         --        431
         Bauxite Industrial. Dev.   Real Estate        40         --         40
         GNCB                       Banking         16,200      13,600      n.a.
         Guyana Electric Co.        Power           11,634      10,733      901

         Not yet Privatized:
         Bermine                    Mining          2,339       2,226       113
         Linmine                    Mining          5,242       1,983      3,259
         National Printers          Commercial        140        60          80
         Hope Coconut Indust.       Agri-based         11         5           6
         Wauna Palm Oil Estate      Agri-based         86         8          78




                                                  - 9 -

Public Sector Business Services. The technical assistance expertise and technology upgrading
funded by the project delivered most of the expected outputs in the auditing, payroll system and
financial management system. But it failed to implement the public procurement reform in full.

Training of the Auditor General. The audit examiners and senior staff at the Auditor General's
Office (AGO) underwent an on-site training program designed and implemented by USDA
officials and which covered performance and forensic auditing, and audit report writing. As a part
of this training, new auditing procedures and policy manuals were also elaborated. The training
resulted in a substantially improved quality of audit reports delivered by the AGO, including those
under IDA financed projects. Unfortunately, only the first phase of the training program could be
completed because project funds needed to carry-out this second phase of the training were never
allocated by the Ministry of Finance. The second phase of the training program, including
important topics such as government financial management, information systems audits, internal
auditor training, and certification of fraud examiners, is expected to be executed under a follow up
IDA Credit.

Payroll System. The Government payroll system was implemented and is now being used to
administer monthly payments for public sector employees and retirees (for pension payments).
The system was designed to be Y2K compliant. The system has to still incorporate non-regular
contracts such as those requiring daily or bi-weekly payments, and all employees from
decentralized territorial offices of the government (although this represents a very small
percentage of all government employees). The new payroll system has helped to automate
processing and eliminate duplication of records. As a next step, the budget office will incorporate
salary payroll data for its annual budget planning exercises and integrate such data with
government accounting systems, activities which will be supported under a follow up public
sector technical assistance credit.

Procurement Reform. Internal country policy differences, as well as initial lack of agreement with
the multilateral institutions with respect to all the issues to be covered by the proposed public
procurement reform, delayed the enacting of a new Procurement law. Eventually the law was
approved in May 2002 with an additional set of amendments effected in December 2002 following
Government's consultation with IDA. However, in February 2003, IDA pointed out that the law
required additional changes to make it fully compliant with IDA's and IMF's procurement
conditions. IDA and the Government have reached agreement on the substantive changes to be
incorporated and the new law is expected to he passed in mid 2003. With the passage of the law,
the legal framework would be substantially completed, and the preparation and implementation of
the subsequent regulations and procedures, as well as the establishing of the independent National
Procurement Tender Board which would report directly to the Parliament, will take place under a
new IDA project recently approved.

Project Financial Management System (FMS).
Additionally, but not part of the public sector business services, a database and a FMS system was
developed but not fully implemented under the original software package developed, because
some information technology related issues needed to be corrected by a highly specialized
consultant who was not available after a second version was being tested. Instead, towards the



                                                   - 10 -

end of the project, a complete excel-based reporting system was developed by the project PIU. It
met the IDA's LACI reporting requirements and included expenditure by type, special account
balances, procured contracts, disbursement transactions, and sources and uses of funds. The PIU
has also recently implemented a Quick Book Pro package which has been successfully adapted for
use in new multilateral and IDA projects.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not available because this project is a technical assistance operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not available because this project is a Technical Assistance operation. Nevertheless, it is worth to
note that the privatization of public entities yielded close to US$ 11 million in current value terms,
which compares well with the US$ 10.9 million estimated at appraisal and more than covered the
full costs of the project and the credit.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall impact of the project on institutional development was substantial: the project
contribution to privatization of state-owned entities, the development of institutions and capacities
in the financial, private, and public services sectors was as expected, though the supervisory
bodies require further strengthening. On the one hand, the creation of a highly technical
Privatization Unit in the Ministry of Finance made possible the transfer of a significant number of
state assets to the private sector; the implementation of the Securities Act led to the establishing
of the Securities Council and the Guyana Association of Securities Companies and Intermediares
(GASCI); the enforcing of the Insurance Act led to the appointment of the Insurance
Commissioner. On the other hand, the trading of securities is still to be initiated and a self
financing business plan ensuring the sustainability of its supporting infrastructure is yet to be
developed, in order to avoid continued reliance on government resources. Currently, the scarcity
of resources has limited the organizational and staffing capability of the Securities Council and the
performing of oversight functions by the Insurance Commissioner through more frequent on-site
examinations.

The audit examiners and senior staff at the Auditor General's Office (AGO) were trained on
performance and forensic auditing, and audit report writing, and manuals on auditing procedures
and policy manuals were elaborated. The training improved the quality of audit reports delivered
by the AGO, including those under IDA financed projects. Training of AGO's staff on
Government financial management, information systems audits, and certification of fraud
examiners is pending until resources are made available to the AGO.

Regarding public services, the timing and accuracy of monthly payments of salaries of public
sector employees and pensions of retirees was improved thanks to a Y2K compliant payroll
system implemented by the project. The budget office will use said payroll system to incorporate
salaries payroll data in its annual budget planning exercises.

Public procurement is being done under the old institutional set up while the new Public


                                                  - 11 -

Procurement law, approved in 2002, is awaiting final amendments after a first round of
amendments also approved in late 2002 to make it fully compliant with the procurement
conditions of IDA and IMF. The body to enforce it and report directly to the Parliament is yet to
be established and provided with corresponding regulations. However, a major step in this
direction was the political accord reached between the two parties in Spring 2003, which will now
allow Parliament to function, and bodes well for the institutionalization of the new procurement
framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Uncertain trends in international demand for and prices of mining products (such as bauxite) and
agricultural products (such as rice) were an important obstacle that delayed the privatization of
mining and agricultural enterprises and affected the performance of GNCB's portfolio. The
agriculture loans of GNCB which comprised more than 40 percent of GNCB's portfolio were
rescheduled to accommodate the loan re-payment capability of borrowers affected by depressed
demand and low international prices of rice.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Insufficient allocation, non- allocation or delay in the allocation of resources to Project Units have
postponed significantly the implementation or execution of some project components or actions.
For example, the lack of resources postponed the second phase of training of the Auditor General
Office, and the Government's preference to seek and use grants to complement counterpart funds
for the financing of consultants delayed the amendment of financial regulations. Also, the setting
of low thresholds for deciding the award of public contracts at the Secretary levels has introduced
unnecessary bureaucracy and excessive Cabinet control over public procurement of goods and
services. In fact, the Executive Branch ­ mainly the President ­ controlled the priorities and pace
of project execution.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The design of the privatization contracts included measures to protect workers and minority
investors. These measures, included in the contracts by the Privatization Unit, captured the
support of labor unions and public at large and helped the privatization of public enterprises
significantly.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal the total project cost estimate was US$5.6 million. At formal credit closing date
December 31, 2002, the project cost estimate was also US$5.6 million of which US$ 4.6 million
equivalent were disbursed from the IDA credit to finance consultant services, training, office
technology equipment, project administration and the project preparation advance. The credit was
disbursed at a rate faster than expected early in project implementation and asymptotically
towards the original credit closing date. Part of the un-disbursed amount, equivalent to US$0.15
million on December 31, 2002, was used to pay for eligible services and goods delivered before



                                                     - 12 -

December 31, 2002 (the credit closing date) and claimed from the IDA credit no later than April
30, 2003. The balance of US$0.14 million left in the credit will be canceled. The Government
contributed the equivalent of US$0.45 million to project financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project achievements is deemed to be likely. Government, Parliamentary
or political attempts to return the privatized enterprises to state control, retract achievements
reached with the new auditing procedures and payroll systems despite their benefits, or reverse
already approved financial legislation, are considered highly unlikely to occur during the current
Government and in the medium term. As a matter of fact, the current Government has restated its
commitment to maintain its policies towards the financial sector reform and restructuring. Also,
after the new owners and management of GNCB begin operations, and the amendment of the FIA
materializes, it is likely that confidence on the financial market will be instilled on private investors
and active trading of securities will be initiated. Moreover, the infrastructure and staff capacities
of the General Auditor Office, the Securities Council, and Insurance Commissioner are fairly well
prepared to carry out the oversight of the financial sector, unless a significant shortage or
complete lack of resources in their annual budgets impede them to do it. Also, there is no doubt
about the likely permanence of the improvement achieved or soon to be achieved in some critical
public services areas such as the payroll system, the auditing of the public sector, and the public
procurement based on sound procurement structure ­ the latter once the National Procurement
Tender Board is in full operation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The recently approved Technical Assistance Project provides a base for a regular operation of the
public administration institutions and mechanisms created by the FPID, and for completion of
unfinished components/business: Amendment of the Procurement Law; training of the Guyana
Auditor General Office; resolution of some issues in the privatization of GNCB; completion of
FMS systems for public projects, and completion of the budgeting and planning systems.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The performance of IDA at the front end of the project cycle was satisfactory. As a logical next
step from the previous FISBEC Credit and dialogue with the Government, IDA identified
correctly the relevant objectives to be achieved and components to be implemented by the FPID
technical assistance project, namely, to continue the strengthening of the regulatory frameworks
and institutions supporting an integrated policy approach towards private sector development by
linking the financial sector, privatization and public sector service delivery. IDA gave proactive
support to Guyana in project preparation through a series of studies and reports assessing the
standards and capabilities of the banking system supervisory procedures, the GNCB, the second
phase of the privatization program, the country procurement system, and the environmental
procedures associated with privatizations. The supervision of previous Credits and dialogue with


                                                  - 13 -

the Government provided IDA with valuable information for project preparation and appraisal.

Following a participatory approach, IDA interviewed the primary beneficiaries and groups
affected by the privatization and took into consideration their views about the project in project
preparation and appraisal: Private Sector Commission, Guyana Manufacturer's Association,
Labor Unions ­ Guyana Labor Union ­ and Government Agencies (Privatization Unit, Bank of
Guyana, Go-Invest, Ministry of Finance, Auditor General). It also interviewed other donors
intervening in Guyana programs: European Union (private sector skills survey and development
program); CIDA (private sector human resource strengthening); IDB (private sector technical and
management training program); IMF (private sector structural reform measures); and USAID
(investment promotion program). The project benefited of all these programs in progress while
not duplicating other donors' programs.

Project appraisal was sound and very well documented in the Project Appraisal Document. It
included: a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of the technical and institutional capability of
the privatization unit, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the procurement and
auditing functions; the project management by the Project Implementation Unit of the Ministry of
Finance; and the evaluation of social implications of the privatization program and
options/measures to mitigate negative impacts on the workers (severance payments, continuity of
contracts, re-training and/or employee stock ownership). The project was assigned Environmental
Category B, mainly because the privatization program included mining companies and
pharmaceutical industries that represent potential hazards for the environment. It was agreed that
the privatization legal agreement between the Government and the investors would include
environmental clauses for maintaining environmental safeguards in place and clauses whereby the
investor would accept any cost of environmental clean up. Also the Guyana Environmental
Agency would provide or veto environmental permits for newly privatized industries.

Finally, IDA satisfied itself that the Government of Guyana was indeed committed to and had
ownership of the project as demonstrated by the successful execution of the first phase of the
privatization program, its strong policy performance observed in the areas of private sector and
financial sector development ­ areas in which targets were met on or ahead of schedule in most
cases by resorting to international technical experts to ensure quality institution-building results.
Also, in the public sector area, the Government had shown progress in fostering a reform of the
public procurement framework and establishing a stronger Auditor General's Office.

Although economic cost/benefit and financial analyses are not required for a technical assistance
operation, the project appraisal document included a rough estimate of the IRR and NPV of the
privatization program to demonstrate that these indicators of expected project performance were
reasonably acceptable.

7.2 Supervision:

Over a period of four years, IDA fielded six supervision missions comprising sufficient number of
staff and appropriate mix of specialists, and performed close desk follow up of actions agreed. It
also provided the Government agencies with sound advice on how to address issues that emerged
during project implementation and put pressure on the Government, aimed at expediting the


                                                - 14 -

execution of components that were lagging in the implementation plan (developing a weak bank
resolution framework, restructuring of the financial sector, and improving of the Procurement
law) or were not delivering the expected outcome (restructuring and improving the finances of
GNCB and training of the Auditor General Office). Also, IDA was diligent in processing the
requests for no-objection to procurement matters and applications for credit disbursements. In
sum, IDA supervision is judged as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, overall IDA performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Since the FPID project was a follow up project to complement the achievements reached by the
FISBEC, all the results of the latter and identification of follow up actions can be considered as
relevant Government preparation work for the FPID. Consequently, Borrower preparation of the
project can be judged as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government, through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance, was
responsible for overall project implementation and coordination of those components delegated
for execution by other technical units of the Government (implementation units). The MOF, and
the Central Bank, lacking qualified staff for effective and timely project follow up ­ and having a
recognized past history of weakness in project implementation ­ were assisted by international
consultants in key advisory positions that helped to make an effective implementation of some key
project components. This had a noticeable impact on the performance of the Privatization Unit
and its successful work, and on GNCB where the consultants assumed managing positions and
carried out a restructuring of the bank. Notwithstanding, the implementation of some components
were delayed (enforcing the Insurance and Securities Acts and appointing the Insurance
Commissioner) and other components were either partially implemented (training of the Auditor
General Office, improving GNCB finances, amending the procurement law, commissioning of the
public projects financial management system) or not implemented at all (amending the FIA and
preparing and upgrading specific financial sector regulations). As pointed above, the decision
making power, highly concentrated on the Executive Branch ­ mainly the President ­ set the
priorities and pace of project implementation. The Government complied with the credit
covenants. All things considered, Government implementation performance can be considered
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the Implementing Agencies (implementing units) was uneven.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) centralized and handled well and on a timely basis all
project contracting, procurement, auditing of accounts and applications for credit disbursement. It
had a fair performance in implementing the public sector services component (the payroll system
was commissioned and the full enforcement of the Procurement law was delayed beyond the



                                                 - 15 -

credit closing date). The PIU delivered satisfactory technical, procurement and accounting project
progress reports and credit disbursement information in a format equivalent to that of LACI. It
has also recently implemented a Quick Book Pro package which has been successfully adapted for
use in new multilateral and IDA projects. The PIU claimed that it was not cost effective to re-load
all of the FPID project's contract data in the Quick Book Pro package with only a couple of
months left for credit closing. However, the recently approved IDA Technical Assistance project
will make use of this useful project management tool.

The Privatization Unit successfully managed the technical consultancy that privatized most of the
entities included in the second phase of the privatization program. This Unit also succeeded in
initiating the privatization and attracting investors interested in GEC and GNCB, the latter whose
privatization contract was concluded in early 2003.

The Central Bank did not succeed in amending the FIA for improving certain aspects of the
banking regulation related to procedures to handle troubled banks. GNCB, managed with the
assistance of international consultants, improved its structure and maintained its finances afloat up
to the point of privatization.

All things considered, the implementing agencies/units had a satisfactory performance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above, overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following are important lessons learned from this project:

Lesson 1.
Although the Government was committed to fully implement the project, its preference for
carrying out some key components of the project using counterpart grant funds which were not
initially available to supplement IDA funds (for example the upgrading of specified financial sector
regulations and executing actions needed to trigger the operation of the capital market, it delayed
the implementation of those grant financed components while it took its time obtaining grants).
The lesson is that IDA should consider including in its legal covenants, provisions which would
avoid delaying IDA project components if the government chose to substitute certain project
activities with grant funds which had not yet been approved or received. In this way the lack of
grant money will not be a factor delaying the execution of important project components.

Lesson 2.
It is obvious, but not sufficiently emphasized, that appropriate reputable international consultancy
(firms or individuals) ­ not always welcome by borrowers ­ assigned to assist Government
agencies/units in areas where lack of or shortage of implementation capacity needs strengthening,
plays an important role in making a project component succeed. For example, in this project, the
participation of independent apolitical international consultants was of paramount importance in
assisting the Government in the managing and restructuring of GNCB, and the operation of the



                                                 - 16 -

Privatization Unit in the execution of the second phase of the privatization program.

Lesson 3.
In a small developing country striving to emerge from poverty with very limited capacity, it is
very difficult to achieve the transformation of the financial sector along a modern paradigm of
institutional framework enabling private sector investment, in a relatively short timeframe. To
expect this to occur in a period of three years it may be over optimistic. More time is needed to
achieve that objective.

Lesson 4.
The design of a privatization program in a socially sensitive manner is a key factor for its
successful implementation. In this project, the Privatization Unit obtained political, labor unions
and public at large support for privatization by including in enterprise sale contracts, clauses to
protect workers and minority investors.

Lesson 5.
A technical assistance Credit can be effective and quickly disbursed if a previous lending operation
or set of actions had already laid the ground for its prompt implementation. For example, this
occurs if a program needing technical support is already underway (in this project there was an
on-going privatization program) or if critical needs require to be immediately addressed (in this
project it was badly needed to address the restructuring of the GNCB).

Lesson 6.
Client ownership and commitment is critical to project success. In the case of this Guyana FPID
project, the task team worked to ensure a consistent level of involvement of the Government in
project supervision and monitoring. The project enjoyed continued strong support when the main
counterpart, the then Minister of Finance, became President of the Republic. The PIU was
moved to the President's office and the the President himself was directly involved in determining
the pace of implementation for most project components. This level of ownership contributed to
the fact that the implementation of the project went remarkably smoothly, with practically all
funds disbursed without delay, especially when compared to other ongoing IDA projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                 GOVERNMENT ASSESSMENT

                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

 FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Summary and Conclusions

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is an evaluation of the Financial and Private
Sector Institutional Development Project (FPID). The purpose of the credit was to support
second generation institutional reforms aimed at creating a environment for private sector led



                                                 - 17 -

growth.
Since the decade of the 1990s, the Government has been implementing fundamental reforms with
the objective of improving the (i) financial sector; (ii) good governance; and (iii) public
infrastructure.

Project Objectives

Consistent with the medium-term growth strategy of the government, the FPID project sets out to
achieve the following objectives: (i) improving the regulatory framework of the overall financial
sector; (ii) assisting in the transfer of state-owned enterprises to the private sector; and (iii)
supporting the modernization of the public sector through improved service delivery in the areas
of procurement, auditing and public sector management. To achieve these objectives, the
following components were identified: (i) financial sector development; (ii) private sector
development; and (iii) public sector business services.

Overview of Project Achievements

Based on the performance indicators as set out in the project, the FPID was a tremendous success
as it (i) supported the implementation of a modernized broad financial sector regulatory
framework resulting in the operationalisation of new regulatory bodies and evidence of
improvement in the performance and strength of financial institutions in line with international
bank accounting and Basle prudential standards; (ii) facilitated the transfer to the private sector a
critical mass of state-owned enterprises within an enabling business environment for both
industrial and financial investors; and assisted in the modernization of public sector auditing and
procurement framework and implementation of Y2K compliant systems for public sector
management.

Assessment of Financial Sector Development

The FPID project through technical assistance provided support in the privatization of GNCB. In
particular, expatriate management consultants and legal experts were recruited to first restructure
the Bank and thereafter offer it for sale. Restructuring led to cost containment through
rationalization of staffing and streamlining of the bank's activities. The bank was brought to the
point of sale in September 2002 and privatized in March 2003.

The project also provided consultancy services through the privatization unit to privatize the
GNCB Trust. That institution was brought to the point of sale and eventually sold. The
privatization of these two entities has eliminated public sector involvement in the banking system
although the Financial Institutions Act provides for about 25 percent of public sector participation
in the commercial banking system.

Further, the project provided for the establishment of the Secretariat of an insurance commission.
A commissioner was appointed to regulate and supervise the insurance sector. By establishing a
regulatory framework for the functioning of the insurance industry, the FPID has contributed
immensely in streamlining the operations of the insurance industry in Guyana by beginning to



                                                  - 18 -

implement international best practices.

Also slated for implementation under the FPID is the establishment of a securities market. With
the Government securing grant assistance for the same purpose, FPID resources were deployed in
other areas. Even so, the key objectives planned under the project for the securities market were
met. Regulatory and operational frameworks for the functioning of the securities market was set
up with the establishment of Guyana Securities Council and the Guyana Association of Securities
Companies and Intermediaries. The U.K.'s DFID support for the securities market will come to
an end in December 2003.

Also planned under the project was the strengthening of prudential supervision at the Bank of
Guyana to allow for more efficient supervision of the commercial banking sector. Like the
securities market, Government received support in technical assistance from the IMF under this
component. Nevertheless, prudential supervision continues to be weak as evidenced by the central
bank's inability to identify problems within Globe Trust, a trust company before it went bankrupt
causing significant losses to its customers, particularly the poor. While the government succeeded
in meeting many of the performance indicators in the financial sector, it is clear that additional
support will be needed to strengthen the supervisory role of the Bank of Guyana. This may be
addressed in the IDB Financial Services operation that is currently under preparation.

Assessment of Privatization Component

Under the privatization component, the government agreed to privatize the following entities:
Bermine, Linmine, Guyana Pharmaceutical Company, Seals and Packaging, Glasswork Industrial
Works, Ruimveldt Industrial Park, Guyana Store, Guyana Power Company, Guyana Airways as
well as the restructuring of GNCB. In effect, the Government committed to divest itself from
private sector activities except Guyana Sugar Company, Guyana Oil Company, Guyana National
Shipping Corporation and GNCB.

By end 2000, the Government had succeeded in privatizing all the above non-financial public
enterprises. The Government also went beyond its commitment of restructuring GNCB by putting
the financial entity on the market for sale. The sale has since been completed. Further, the
Government in 2001 began the difficult task of restructuring the remaining public enterprises that
it was committed to keep. A case in point is Guysuco where the Government has begun
implementing far-reaching reforms to modernize the industry, reduce cost and return the industry
to sustained profitability. The other two remaining non-financial public enterprises are also
undergoing restructuring, albeit, at a much slower pace. All in all, the Government exceeded the
performance indicators of the privatization programme as agreed to in the FPID project.

Assessment of Public Sector Business Services Component

This component was designed to support reforms in public procurement, strengthening of public
sector auditing and modernization and implementation of new public resource management and
payroll budget systems. Although, procurement reforms took long to be implemented, on account
of new constitutional reforms that required special transparency and oversight functions for a



                                                 - 19 -

procurement commission, the Government has since made strong efforts to reform the tendering
and procurement system. A procurement law was passed in June 2002 and amended later in June
2003 to take into account feedback from public consultations and comments from the
international donor community. Guyana now has one of the most far reaching procurement laws
in the Caribbean. The follow-up to the procurement law as captured in the Country Procurement
Assessment Review is being implemented with technical assistance from the World Bank through
the new public sector t.a. credit.

The FPID project also assisted the government in implementing reforms in strengthening the
Office of the Auditor General through capacity building initiatives including extensive training to
staff of that agency. These efforts have assisted the A-G's office to carry out a variety of audits
throughout the public sector and have also reduced the number of audits carried out by private
companies for foreign funded projects. Technical assistance from the FPID project in the Auditor
General Department has been complemented by support from the Inter-American Development
through funding for the preparation of a new Audit Law which would grant greater autonomy to
the Department.

Perhaps, the greatest success of the FPID project is the transformation of Guyana's payroll
system. The Bank acted in a timely way and provided full support to the Government to deal with
Y2K related issues with the payroll. Apart from this, the project allowed the government to
update its payroll system and prepared the ground for the integration of its human resource
component to the payroll. Through the new public sector t.a. credit, the government has procured
human resource software and a consultant and is in the process of integrating the payroll system
to personnel within the public service.

Lessons Learned Recommendations for Future Assistance

The importance of programme coordination both at agency and donor level was one of the key
lessons learned in the implementation of FPID project. At the agency level, where there was
closer collaboration between the project executing agency and the beneficiary agency,
implementation proceeded on time. Indeed, this was the case with the MIS Unit in the
implementation of the payroll system, Privatization Unit in the sale of public enterprises and
implementation of securities legislation, and the Ministry of Finance in the provision of advisory
services to the Government. In the Central Bank, where coordination was poor, it was difficult to
push through the implementation of project objectives. Similarly, where coordination with donors
was properly organized, implementation proceeded efficiently. This was particularly the case with
DFID in the implementation of securities legislation while in the case of banking supervision for
the central bank, poor coordination with the IMF technical assistance support did not produce
desired results envisaged in the FPID.

Timely response and flexibility of Bank staff to the needs of the client helps in project
implementation. In particular, Bank staff on the FPID provided timely support to the project in
terms of requests on procurement, reports, accessibility, supervision and problem solving. This to
a considerable extent facilitated project implementation and built trust between the client and the
Bank.



                                                - 20 -

Government's View of the Project

This IDA intervention provided critical assistance necessary to implement many of the structural
reforms agreed between the Government and the multilateral financial institutions. Results
deriving out of this project are already apparent:


·       Proactive role of Government in private sector activities is substantially reduced;
·       Financial sector reforms have somewhat strengthened the banking system and completely
eliminated the role of government in the sector;
·       Modern payroll system with a platform for integration with human resources of the public
sector is already in place;
·       Framework for the development of s stock market is in place;
·       A new procurement law has been enacted.


(b) Cofinanciers:

        Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                               - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
      Indicator/Matrix                Projected in Last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Financial Sector
Development
a. Banking Sector Regulatory        2002                     Reduction in the level of non
Development Enforcement                                      performing loans and assets in
                                                             the financial system has been
                                                             partially achieved. In 2003 or
                                                             later, an amendment of FIA is
                                                             expected to incorporate new bank
                                                             resolution procedures for the
                                                             closure, merger or exit of
                                                             troubled institutions.
b. Bank Restructuring               2002                     In 2002, GNCB was restructured
                                                             and brought to the point of sale.
                                                             Its non performing loan portfolio
                                                             was reduced, and collection on
                                                             defaulting loans increased. In
                                                             early 2003 a private investor
                                                             group purchased the bank from
                                                             the government.
c. Insurance Sector Regulatory     2002                      In 2002 the insurance
Reform.                                                      supervisory and monitoring
                                                             system was established. In 2003
                                                             or later, an insurance industry
                                                             financial data and reporting
                                                             system will be established.
d. Securities Sector regulatory    2003                      The regulatory and institutional
reform.                                                      framework is in place but trading
                                                             of securities has not yet started.
2. Private Sector Development
Privatization of Public Enterprises 2003                     From 1999 to 2002, twelve
under a Conducive & Transparent                              Government's enterprises were
Business Environment                                         privatized including GNCB. Five
                                                             other enterprises were brought to
                                                             the point of sale.
                                                             The Government has the
                                                             capability to make market
                                                             valuations of state owned assets
                                                             and competitive bidding to sell
                                                             them to potential investors.
3. Public Sector Business
Services
a. Modernize the Public             2002                     A new Procurement Law was
Procurement Framework                                        enacted but it still needs
                                                             amendments to assure
                                                             transparency in the allocation of
                                                             public resources. This may be



                                                  - 22 -

                                                            achieved by 2003/2004.
b. Strengthen the Public Audit     2002                     General Auditor Office now has
Function                                                    the staff and capability to conduct
                                                            audits, though its staff needs
                                                            more training in 2003/2004
c. Upgrade the Public Sector's     2002                     A modern Government payroll
Human Resource Payroll Budget                               system is in place. Accurate and
System.                                                     timely processing and payment of
                                                            salaries has been achieved.

Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in PAD         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Financial Sector
Development
a. Banking Sector Regulatory
Development Enforcement
Approve and enforce a regulatory   2000                     Merchant banks, trusts and
framework to deal with insolvent                            foreign exchange operators have
and illiquid banks, incorporate                             been incorporated into the
international banking accounting                            financial institutions regulatory
and reporting standards, and                                framework. In 2003 or later
regulate merchant banks, trusts,                            amendment of the FIA is
and foreign exchange operators.                             expected with regard to failed
                                                            bank resolution measures.
b. Bank Restructuring
Restructure GNCB, assess its       2000                     During 1999-2002 an
financial condition and asset net                           internationally experienced team
worth valuation, and submit to the                          managed and restructured
Government and IDA a plan                                   GNCB, valued its assets, and
conducive to privatization options.                         took GNCB to point-of-sale in
                                                            2002.
Complete privatization and/or      2001                     Privatization of GNCB was
other actions agreed for                                    achieved in early 2003.
management and ownership of
GNCB.
c. Insurance Sector Regulatory
Reform.
Appoint Commissioner and staff,    2000                     The Insurance Commissioner
and allocate budget to Office of                            was appointed in 2002. Staff is
Insurance Commissioner.                                     sufficient but budget is uncertain.
Develop and implement insurance 2003                        Development of implementing
regulations.                                                insurance regulations governing
                                                            minimum capitalization,
                                                            solvency requirements,
                                                            underwriting standards, tax
                                                            regime, allowances for
                                                            investment of assets, reinsurance
                                                            security, and conditions for
                                                            revoking licenses is expected in
                                                            2003 or later.
Implement inspection cycle for     2001                     2003 or later
insurance industry.




                                                  - 23 -

Implement quarterly industry        2002               2003 or later
reporting system by the Insurance
Commissioner.
d. Securities Sector Regulatory
Reform.
Establish budget and staffing for   2000               Staff was sufficient in 2002, but
the new Securities Council, and                        budget is uncertain. Development
develop and implement securities                       of implementing securities
regulations.                                           regulations covering public
                                                       issuance disclosure requirements,
                                                       capital requirements and
                                                       operating criteria for licensed
                                                       dealers and brokers is expected in
                                                       2003 or later.
Amend regulations of the Capital    2001               Amendments done. In 2003 or
Issues Act, the Financial                              later, securities supervision to
Institutions Act, and the                              begin once the market is
Companies Act, and begin                               launched.
implementation of supervisory and
securities market off-site tracking
systems.
Set up operational system for       2002               By mid to late 2003. Trading of
securities monitoring and                              securities has not yet begun.
information system for tracking
trades and market prices of
publicly traded securities in the
primary and secondary markets.
2. Private Sector Development
Privatization of Public Enterprises
under a Conducive & Transparent
Business Environment
Bring to point-of-sale 15           2000               Up to 2002 the following entities
Government entities included in                        were brought to point-of-sale and
the second phase of the                                privatized:
privatization program:                                (a) Guyana Pharmaceuticals, (b)
                                                      Seals & Packaging; (c) Glassworks
                                                      Industrial Park; (d) Ruimveldt
                                                      Industrial park; (e) Quality Foods,
                                                      (f) Guyana Airways, (g) Guyana
                                                      Stores, (h) Guysuco Versailles
                                                      Dairy Complex, (i) GNCB, (j)
                                                      Guyana Electric Company, (k)
                                                      Surapana Farm, (l) Bauxite
                                                      Industrial Development Co.

                                                      By mid-2003 the following 5
                                                      enterprises which had been brought
                                                      to point-of-sale previously, are
                                                      being readvertised: (a) Hope
                                                      Coconut Industries; (b) National
                                                      Printer, (c) Wauna Palm Oil Estate,
                                                      (d) Bermine, and (e) Linmine.
                                                      Currently negotiations are



                                            - 24 -

                                                      underway for the sale of Linmine to
                                                      a Canadian mining company.
Consolidate the register of public  2001               2002
enterprises' financial accounts into
a government holding company
and corporatize financial
management of these enterprises
by systematizing reporting of
financial and performance data.
Sale of minority share interests to 2002               2002
employees, transfer of employee
contracts with appropriate terms
and conditions, and maintain
severance payment terms as prior
per union agreements.
Protect small investor by: (a)      2002               2002
ensuring share offers to all
shareholders during takeovers; (b)
requiring a priori announcements
of takeover intention to ensure
price transparency; (c) setting out
rules for clearing and settlement of
securities; (d) setting out ethics
rules for dealers and brokers; (e)
setting out disclosure rules for
dealers and brokers.
3. Public Sector Business
Services
a. Modernize the Public
Procurement Framework
Complete development and            2000               New Procurement Law was
drafting of the new procurement                        enacted in February 2002,
law, and endorsement by Cabinet,                       amended in December 2002.
including provisions for                               However, it still needs an
transparency in advertising for                        amendment to comply with
bids, controls on third party                          procurement conditions of IDA
interests evaluating bids, and clear                   and IMF. This is expected to
evaluation and selection                               occur in late 2003.
procedures & criteria.
Develop and implement               2001               The Central Tender Procurement
administrative tools, procedures,                      Board is not yet in operation. It is
and information systems for                            expected to be so in late 2003.
implementation of the
procurement regulations.
Restructuring of the central tender
Board.
Establish administrative system     2002               2003
for public procurement and
contractor registry procedures.
Develop and implement a national
Worker's/Contractor's registry.
b. Strengthen the Public Audit
Function



                                            - 25 -

Implement procedures for meeting 2000                2000
standards of multilateral
development agency project audits.
Produce auditing procedures and    2001              2002
manuals, and implement revised
auditing standards and guidelines
for commercial, institutional, and
multilateral project audits.
Develop and implement              2002              2002
operational and performance-
based audit techniques to
supplement financial reviews of
major public work projects.
Sustain auditing capacity in public
sector and certify international
auditing standards.
c. Upgrade the Public Sector's
Human Resource Payroll Budget
System
Develop, implement and operate a 2000                2002
payroll budget system complying
with Y2K standards.
Implement integrated payroll,      2001              2003 or later
accounting, and budget system.




                                           - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



2a. Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
               Component                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage
                                         Estimate        Estimate       of
                                        US$ million     US$ million  Appraisal

Financial sector                            1.52           1.15        76%

Private Sector Development                  2.10           2.48        118%

Public Sector and Business Services         1.46           1.47        101%

Total Baseline Cost                         5.08           5.10        100%

Physical Contingencies                      0.20           0.14         n.a.
                                                       (undisbursed)

Price Contingencies                         0.32           0.0

Total Project Costs                         5.60           5.10        91%

Total Financing Required                    4.80           4.66        97%




                                         - 27 -

2b. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
                                 (US$ million equivalent)
    Expenditure                          Procurement Method
      Category                                                             Total Cost
                             ICB          NCB          Other       N.B.F.
1. Consultant services       2.265         0.00         2.215                4.480
                            (1.925)       (0.00)       (1.895)     (0.00)   (3.820)

2. Goods & equipment         0.230        0.350         0.210       0.00     0.790
                            (0.200)      (0.300)       (0.180)              (0.680)

4. Operating expenses         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.330    0.330
                             (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.300)  (0.300)

Total                        2.495        0.350         2.425       0.330    5.600
                            (2.125)      (0.300)       (2.075)     (0.300)  (4.800)
Figures in parenthesis were the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit


2c. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                 (US$ million equivalent)
    Expenditure                          Procurement Method
      Category                                                             Total Cost
                             ICB          NCB          Other       N.B.F.
1. Consultant services       1.650        0.831         1.665       0.450    4.596
                            (1.650)      (0.831)       (1.665)     (0.00)   (4.146)

2. Goods & equipment          0.00        0.331         0.00        0.00     0.331
                             (0.00)      (0.331)        (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.331)

4. Operating expenses         0.00        0.179         0.00        0.00     0.179
                             (0.00)      (0.179)        (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.179)

Total                        1.650        1.341         1.665       0.450    5.106
                            (1.650)      (1.341)       (1.665)     (0.00)   (4.656)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit




                                             - 28 -

Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent)

  Component           Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                         Estimate            Appraisal
                   IDA        Govt. Total           IDA    Govt.  Total IDA    Govt. Total

Financial sector   1.30       0.22      1.52        1.05   0.10   1.15  81%    45%     76%

Private Sector     1.80       0.30      2.10        2.26   0.22   2.48  126%   73%     118%
Development

Public Sector      1.25       0.21      1.46        1.34   0.13   1.48  107%   62%     101%
Business
Services

Contingencies      0.45       0.07      0.52        0.14*  0.0    0.14* n.a.   n.a.    n.a.

Total              4.80       0.80      5.60        4.65   0.45   5.10  0.97   56%     91%

*Unused/undisbursed, therefore not added into total.




                                                   - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

        Not applicable since this is a technical assistance project. Nevertheless, it is pointed out that the
privatization program which this credit directly supported (via technical and consulting support to the
Privatization Unit) yielded total net proceeds of US$ 11 million equivalent to the Government. This
amount more than covers both the present value as well as the nominal value of the IDA credit and its
financing costs.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               October 1998              3     TM/Finance (1), Finance (1),
                                               Private Sector (1)
               January 1999              3     TM/Finance (1), Finance (1),
                                               Private Sector (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               July 1999                 4     TM/Finance (1), Finance (1),         S               S
                                               FMS (1), Private Sector (1)
               September 1999            3     TM/Finance (1), PSD (1), Legal       S               S
                                               (1)

 Supervision
               March 2000                 4    TM/Finance (1), Co-TM/               S               S
                                               Econ. (1), Procurement (1),
                                               FMS (1)
               November 2000              2    TM/Finance (1), Co-TM/               S               S
                                               Econ. (1)
               July 2001                  2    TM/Finance (1), Co-TM/               S               S
                                               Econ. (1)
               February 2002              2    TM/Finance (1), Co-TM/               S               S
                                               Econ. (1)
               February 2003              2    TM/Finance (1), Co-TM/               S               S
                                               Econ. (1)

 ICR
               May 2003                  2     Financial Analyst (1),               S               S
                                               TM/Finance (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               16.2                            43.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    34.4                           103.1
  Supervision                              60.4                           181.1
  ICR                                        6.0                           15.0
  Total                                   117.0                           342.8




                                               - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document dated October 28, 1999.

Development Credit Agreement dated November 17, 1999.

Annex A of Implementation Letter dated November 17, 1999.

Project Status Reports (PSRs) Sequence #1 through Sequence #12

Aide Memoirs of IDA Supervision Missions.

Implementation Completion Report on Guyana Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
(C2716-GUA) dated June 11, 1998.

Implementation Completion Report on Guyana Financial Sector Business Environment Credit
(C2669-GUS) dated December 25, 1999.

Guyana, Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project- Project Monitoring Report
dated February 26, 2002.

Summary Report on Guyana National Co-operative Bank for Minister of Finance. ICC
Consulting, Ireland.

Initial Report and Assessment on Guyana National Co-operative Bank. Three months Report by
New Management Team.

Initiatives to Improve the Access & Affordability to Housing ­ A Conceptual and Overview Paper
prepared by Winston A.M. Brassington (Executive Secretary & Head of Privatization Unit) and
Hon. Bharrat Jagdeo (Senior Minister of Finance). (This document has an excellent overview of
the Guyana financial sector before privatization).




                                               - 34 -

- 35 -

