                                 Documentof
                               The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 29334




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                  GUYANA

       FINANCIAL SECTORAND BUSINESSENVIRONMENT CREDIT
                             (CREDIT 2669-0-GUA)
         PRIVATE SECTORDEVELOPMENTADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                              (CREDIT 2746-GUA)
  FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECTORINSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                 PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 3290-GUA)


                                June 15,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation
Operations Evaluation Department

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit G$

1998                       US$l.oo            G$145.5
1999                       US$1.oo
                           U S $ l.oo         G$180.5
2003                                          G$179.00

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

AGO           Auditor-General's Office           GUYMIDA GuyanaManufacturing Industrial
AS1           Adam Smith Institute                         Development Agency
BOG           Bank o f Guyana, Central Bank      HIPC      Debt Initiative for Highly
BSD           Banking Supervision Department               IndebtedPoor Countries
              o fthe Bank o f Guyana             ICR       ImplementationCompletion
CIDA          Canadian International                       Report
              Development Agency                 IDA       International Development
DFID          Department for International                 Association
              Development (U.K.)                 IDB       Inter-AmericanDevelopment
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment               Bank
              Facility                           IMF        International Monetary Fund
EU            European Union                     MOF       MinistryofFinance
FIA           Financial Institutions Act         NBIC      NationalBank o f Industry and
FISBEC        Financial Sector and Business                Commerce
              Environment Credit                 ODA        Official Development Assistance
FMS           Financial Management System        OED        Operations EvaluationDepartment
FPID          Financial and Private Sector       PIU       Project Implementation Unit
              InstitutionalDevelopment Credit    PPAR      Project Performance Assessment
GAIBANK Guyana Cooperative Agricultural                    Report
              & IndustrialDevelopment Bank       PRGF      Poverty Reduction Growth
GEC           Guyana Electricity Co.                       Facility
GBTI          Guyana Bank for Trade and          PRSC      Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
              Industry                           PSDAC     Private Sector Development
GCFS          Guyana Cooperative Financial                 Adjustment Credit
              Service (Collection agency)        P U       PrivatizationUnit
GEC           Guyana Electricity Company         SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
GHMBC         Guyana Home Mortgage Banking       S A R      Staff Appraisal Report
              Company                            SDR        Special Drawing Rights
GNCB          Guyana National Cooperative       TA         technical assistance
              Bank                               T A C     Technical Assistance Credit
GOG           Government o f Guyana              USDA      United States Department o f
GO-Invest     Guyana Office o f Investment                 Agriculture
GPL           Guyana Power & LightCo.            Y 2 K      Year 2000 (computer date
                                                           conversion issue)


FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31



Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment            : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                         : Ms.Kris Hallberg

                                                             i


I   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.                  I
 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof theWorld Bank for two
  purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
  producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
  innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
  ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
  important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
       A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR)is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
  Report(a self-evaluationbythe responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in mostcases visit
 the borrowing countryfor onsitediscussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARtherebyseeks to
 validateand augmentthe informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 OED studies.
       EachPPAR is subjectto a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewedbythe responsibleBank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the OED RatingSystem
       The time-testedevaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank'swork.
 The methods offer both rigorand a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument,projectdesign,or
 sectoralapproach.OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (more informationis availableon the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-main page.html).
       Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to whichthe project'sobjectivesare consistentwith the country's
 current development prioritiesand with current Bank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
 goals (expressedin Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers,Country AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
 OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest,Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved,taking into
 account their relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest,Negligible.
       Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a returnhigherthan the
 opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat leastcost comparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High,Substantial,
 Modest,Negligible.This rating is not generallyappliedto adjustment operations.
       Sustainabilify:The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: HighlyLikely,Likely,
 Unlikely,Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a countryor region
 to make more efficient,equitable and sustainableuse of its human,financial, and naturalresources through: (a)
 betterdefinition,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
 betteralignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
 institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
 project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to whichthe project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
 achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to whichservices providedbythe Bank ensured qualityat entry and
 supported implementation throughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangements
 for regular operationof the project).Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
 qualityof preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenantsand agreements, towards the
 achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111




Contents

PrincipalRatings         ................................................................................................................     v

Key StaffResponsible             ........................................................................................................     v

Preface  ...............................................................................................................................     vi

Summary     ..........................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                             vi1

1 Introduction
 .                     ..................................................................................................................     1

2 The Credits: Context. Objectives.and Design
 .                                                                                 .......................................................... 3
        IDA 's Assistance Strategy........................................................................................                    3
        Project Objectives....................................................................................................                4
        Relevance of the Objectives and Fit with the County Strategy ..............................                                           5
3 ImplementationExperience
 .                                                ........................................................................................    8

4 OutcomesandAssessments
 .                                               .......................................................................................     13
        Outcomes.,.............................................................................................................. 13
        Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 16
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                           17
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                   18
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      19
5 Lessonsand Recommendations
 .                                                      ................................................................................     20

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                             ..............................................................................................      23

Annex B   .IndividualsInterviewed..................................................................................                          27

Annex C Guyanaat a Glance
           .                                  .........................................................................................      29

Annex D GovernanceIndicators
           .                                         ...................................................................................     30

Annex E   .Chronology.......................................................................................................                 33




This reportwas preparedby Mr RobertArmstrong(Consultant) under the supervision ofM s Kris
                                     .                                                                                        .
Hallberg Mr
Ms HelenPhillipprovidedadministrative support
  .     .    .Gene     Tidrick was the peerreviewer The reportwas editedby Mr William Hurlbut.and
                                                               ..                                              .

                                                     iv



Boxes
Box 1: Elements of Good Practice/"Good Fit" inTA Projects ..........................................                         8
Box 2: Commentson FISBEC by Guyana's Auditor-General's Office ...........................                                   11
Box 3: The Unhappy Story of GEC Privatization ............................................................                  14

Tables
Table 1:Economic Lndicators.............................................................................................
Table 2: PlannedVersus Actual FISBEC Outlays, ByMainComponent.......................                                         2
                                                                                                                            10
Table 3: PlannedVersus Actual FPID, Outlays. ByMain Component Group.................12

Figures
Figure 1: Project Timeline ................................................................................................. 4

                                                      V



PrincipalRatings
FinancialSector andBusiness Environment(Credit2669-0 GUA)
                                              ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                                    Satisfactory           Moderately             Unsatisfactory
                                                                  Satisfactory
Sustainability                               Likely                  Likely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact               Partial                Modest                 Negligible
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory           Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory

PrivateSector DevelopmentAdjustment Credit(Credit 2746-GUA)
                                              ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                                    Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                          Satisfactory
Sustainability                               Likely                  Likely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact               Partial                Modest                  Modest
Bank Performance                       Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory

FinancialAnd PrivateSector InstitutionalDevelopmentProject (Credit 3290-GUA)
                                              ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                                    Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                          Satisfactory
Sustainability                               Likely                  Likely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment Impact            Substantial            Substantial              Negligible
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Satisfactory
* The ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivisionof
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediateOperationsEvaluation Department (OED) productthat seeks
to independentlyverify the findingsof the ICR.

Key StaffResponsible
Project                    Task Manager/Leader           DivisionChief/            CountryDirector
                                                        SectorDirector
FinancialSector and Business Environment(Credit 2669-GUA)
 Appraisal                     Mark Dorfman              Krishna Challa             Paul lsenman
 Completion                     John Pollner            Danny Leipziger          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
PrivateSector DevelopmentAdjustmentCredit (Credit2746-GUA)
 Appraisal                 Sanjevi Rajasingham           Krishna Challa             Paul lsenman
 Completion                     John Pollner            Danny Leipziger          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Financialand PrivateSector InstitutionalDevelopmentProject(Credit3290-GUA)
 Appraisal                      John Pollner            Danny Leipziger          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
 Completion                     John Pollner            Danny Leipziger            CarolineAnstey

                                           vi


Preface
       This is aProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) onthree projects
carriedout inGuyana duringthe period 1994-2002. These projects were:

       FinancialSector andBusinessEnvironmentCredit(FISBEC, C2669), a
       $3.5 million technical assistanceproject approved inDecember 1994 and
       closed inJune 1999, a year later thanthe original closing date.

       PrivateSector DevelopmentAdjustmentCredit(PSDAC, C2746),a $15.5
       million, three tranche policy-based operation approved inJune 1995 and
       closed inDecember 1997.

       FinancialandPrivateSectorInstitutionalDevelopmentProject(FPID,
       C3290),a $4.8 milliontechnical assistanceproject approved inNovember
        1999and closed inDecember 2002.

       This PPARis baseduponthe ImplementationCompletionReports (ICRs)
preparedbythe LatinAmerica andCaribbean Region, credit documents, project files,
discussions with staff o f the Bank, IMF, and Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
(IDB),and amissionto Guyana from September21to October 1,2003. OED
gratefully acknowledges the cooperation and assistanceprovidedby the many
government officials and others visited duringthat mission.

       These projects were chosen for assessment for two reasons: to contribute to
OED'songoing thematic evaluation ofthe Bank'sinvestment climate activities, and
becausefew private sector development-focused projects inlow-income countries
have been assessedby OED.

       Following standard OED procedure, copies o fthe draft PPAR were sent to the
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments. No
comments were receivedby OED.

                                                       vii



 Summary
          T h i s i s an assessmento f the Financial Sector and BusinessEnvironment Credit (FISBEC), the
 Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC), andthe Financial and Private Sector
 InstitutionalDevelopmentProject (FPID), approved in 1994, 1995 and 1999, respectively.

          All three projects hadthe same over-arching objective ofimprovingGuyana's environment for
 private sector development (PSD) through privatization, financial sector reform and other measures.
 FISBEC and FPID, as technical assistance operations, also hadinstitutional strengthening objectives.

         At the time the PSDAUFISBEC "package" was approved, between late 1994andmid-1995,
 Guyana was experiencing relatively good times. The transition from a socialistic to a market economy,
 begunin 1989, hadmade good progress. With Guyana beingdividedbetweentwo dominant ethnic
 communities, longstanding ethnichacia1 tensions and distrust were always present, albeit with different
 dynamics after the Indo-Guyanese-backed PPPK party came into power in 1992. Butwith substantial
 income growth andpoverty reduction happening for the first time inmany years, there was relative
 quiet on the racial front and growing optimismacross the racial divide that better times were in
prospect. An important indicator o fthis new optimism was the reversal o fthe brain drain o fprevious
 decades.

         PSDAC, a $15.5 million adjustment credit, was conceived as an instrumentto maintain the
momentumo fpolicyreform andto provide much-needed balance-of- payments support to a country
with severe fiscal and debt-servicing difficulties. Likemost aid-supported activities inGuyana, it was
highlydonor-drivenwith tentative borrower ownership. Its objectives were relevant, its designwas
appropriate, and its implementation andnear-term outcomes were mixed. Progress was relatively
satisfactory on macroeconomic stabilization, privatizationo f small-to-medium size enterprises,
financial sector regulation, and trade liberalization. It was relatively unsatisfactory ineliminating
discretionary investment incentives, rendering the Central Bank autonomous, reforming corporate
taxes, restructuringthe Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB), and developing the "one-stop
shop" for promoting investment.

         PSDAC's closing inDecember 1997 coincided with elections inthat month whose outcome
gave rise to renewed racial/ethnic tensions. From then untilmid-2003 there was a steady deterioration
inkeygovernance indicators, including for political stability, rule o flaw, quality o fregulation, and
control ofcorruption. This was compounded by other adverse developments (increased crime,
decreasedpersonal security, increased drug trafficking and money laundering, and exogenous shocks
including ElNino andworsened terms o ftrade). Taken together, these caused a massive deterioration
inGuyana's environment for PSD, the improvementofwhich was the ultimate objective ofall three
projects. This deterioration diminished some PSDAC benefits and, incombination with the mixed
results noted above, warrant PSDAC's outcome rating o f moderately satisfactory. And becausethere
are no clear indicationsthat the governance problems will soon be resolved, PSDAC's sustainability
rating i s ratedas unlikely.

         FISBEC's objectives were relevant but FISBEC was lacking in: client ownership and
participation inproject preparation; good "fit" with local governance; a "process" approach to
implementation; and adequateproject management preparation -all these being elements o f"good
practice" inTA projects. Wrong assumptions were made about the Borrower's willingness to use IDA-
funded consultants inseveral components, some o fwhich were implemented by other donors using
grant funds.

                                                      ...
                                                    Vlll

         FISBEC disbursements were very slow untilthe last year (closing having been extended by a
year) when outlays for consultants to manage GNCB, a large commercialbank, andto privatize the
power company claimed the lion's share o ftotal project outlays. Butprogress on GNCB rationalization
was unsatisfactorily slow through the FISBEC period. Andwithin a few years o f its privatization the
power company had been re-nationalized, also a highlyunsatisfactory outcome. FISBEC also failed to
achieve its capacity buildingand institutional strengtheningobjectives, partly owingto project design
shortcomings andpartly becauseo fGuyana's highly"disenabling environment'' for institutional
development. FISBEC's outcome rating i s thus ratedunsatisfactory, its ID1rating to negligible, and its
sustainability rating unlikely.

         FPID was a relatively unambitious TA project that directed most o fits resources to
improvement o f GNCB's performance, modernizationo f Guyana's payroll/personnel management
system, and privatization. Under pressure from HIPC and Ih4F structural conditions, GNCB was finally
privatized in2003, a favorable outcome. However, this was after years o f delayed reform (with
mountinglosses assumedbythe State) and with a lower sales price than couldhavebeen realized
earlier. The outcomes on payroll management and privatization (excepting power) were relatively
favorable, as was the impact o fa FPID-financed adviser on several aspects o fpolicy reform. But FPID
had a minimal impact on sustainable institutional development and capacity building. Its outcome
rating is therefore ratedas moderately satisfactory, its ID1rating as negligible, and (for the same
reasons as inPSDAC andFISBEC), its sustainability rating as unlikely.

         Duringthe time FISBEC andFPIDwere being disbursed, there were gray areas in the
Bank's guidelines concerning fundinglong-term localconsultancies andstipends for government
officials. While it is not evident that the guidelines were violated, the project documents should
have identified the projects' intent to provide such fimding andjustified the practice, and the ICRs
should have assessedthe outcome.

         Some o fthe main lessons fiom these projects are:

    The ethnic divide, distrust, and governance problems are the key constraints to improving the
    environment for PSD and fostering sustainable growth inGuyana.

    At the project level, all fbture Bank operations, including their components andprocesses(e.g.
    consultations on project design, the hiringo fconsultants, procurement o f goods, selection o f
    trainees, choice o fregulatory options, etc.), should address how they can at least avoid deepening
    distrust, andifpossible serveto buildtrust acrossthe racial divide.Transparency shouldbe the key
    watchword for both GOGand the donors.

    More diagnostic work on incentives, institutions and social capital i s needed, with a view to
    identifylngstrategies andtactics for rationalizingincentives, buildingsustainable institutions and
    fostering social capital. Understanding the political economy is essential to project choice and
    design.




                                                                                        Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                                          Director-General
                                                                                    Operations Evaluation

                                                          1


 1.      Introduction

 1.1     Guyanai s a multiracial society, with people o f Indian, African, Portuguese, Chinese, and
 indigenous (Amerindian) descent. Over 80 percent o f its population o f some 770,000 persons is
 o f African (33 percent) and Indian(48 percent) origin. The two dominant ethnic communities
 have beenjostling for economic, social, andpolitical power and status for over halfa century.
 The Indo-Guyanese population i s largely rural and traditionally engaged insugar and rice
 productionandprocessing. The Afro-Guyanese populationi s more urbanandhas traditionally
 engaged inthe miningsector and inthe civil service, police, and defense forces.

 1.2     These structures, combinedwith political party identifications along ethnidracial lines,
 create complex dynamics in, and constraints to, Guyana's economic growth and institutional
 development. One theme o fthis PPAR is that the designandmanagement o f IDAprojects didnot
 adequately take into account these dynamics and constraints.

 1.3     Shortly after Independence in 1966, Guyana embarked upon"cooperative socialism'' and
 remained a socialist country untilthe late 1980s, by which time output had plummeted (-3.5
percent per annumduringthe 1980s), living standardshad collapsed, the quality of social services
had eroded, andinfrastructurehad seriously deteriorated. The socialist period also gave rise to
 extensive emigration. By 1988, Guyana could no longer service its external debts and its financial
 crisis provoked adoption in 1989 o f an Economic RecoveryProgram (ERP).This markedthe
beginningo f Guyana's transition from a socialist to a democratic, market economy.

 1.4     Duringthe yearsbetween 1989and 1994, manypublic sector andfinancial sector reforms
were made. Backedby substantial external technical and financial support, the government
eliminatedvirtually all price controls, abolished import prohibitions, unified and floated the
exchange rate, simplified and reducedtariffs, and established market-based interest rates. Macro
imbalances were greatly reduced and inflation fell from 18 percent inthe 1980s to 7 percent by
the mid-1990s. Inaddition, some privatizationswere undertaken, andin 1995 Guyanajoined the
World Trade Organization.

 1.5      The early 1990s also witnessed significant political changes. After many years during
which elections were perceivedas rigged, in 1992 Guyana had what internationalobservers
judged to be a free and fair election. Since party identificationi s overwhelming along ethnic lines
andsince the Indo-Guyanesepopulationis so muchlarger thanthe Afro-Guyanese population,
this electionbrought to power the PPP/C' and the PNC became the opposition. The new PPP/C
government continuedwith the reforms initiatedby the PNC government. Hence, by 1994-95 it
couldbe said that the first phase o freform hadbeen fairly successful andthat reforms and their
benefits appeared sustainable. Racialtensions and distrust were always present, albeit with
differentdynamics after the PPP/C came into power in 1992. Butwith income growthand
poverty reduction happening for the first time inmany years, there was relativepeace and quiet
on the racial front and growing optimism across the racial divide that better times were in
prospect.




1. PPPIC stands for People's ProgressivePartyICivic and is identified with the Indo-Guyanese, while PNC stands
for People's National Congress and is identified with the Afro-Guyanese.

                                                  2

 1.6       One significant indicator o fthe new optimism was that the "brain drain" o fthe previous
decades was reversed inthe early 1990s. The returno fexperienced professionals, entrepreneurs,
and skilledworkers both signaled and caused an improvement inthe investmentclimate.

 1.7       Table 1shows how Guyana's economic performance improvedmarkedly duringthe first
phase o f its reform program launched in 1989, creating a favorable momentum o freforms that
Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit (FISBEC), the first World Bank financial
sector loan, andPrivate Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC), which were approved
between end-1994 andmid-1995, were intendedto sustain. It also shows that there was amarked
deterioration inperformance after 1997, the year inwhich Cheddi Jagan, the longtime political
leader o fthe PPP/C andPresident since 1992, died andwas succeededfirst byhis wife andthen
inAugust 1999byBharrat Jagdeo, the current President.

Table 1:EconomicIndicators

   lndicator (99)                                                Annual Average for:
                                                    7980s         7991-7997         7998-2002
    Compoundgrowth rateof real GDP (%)               -3.5            7.1               0.5
    Poverty Incidence(%)                             n.a.        43.2 (1992)        35.0 (1999)
    inflation (periodaverage,%)                      17.7        7.1 (`92-'97)         5.2
    FiscaldeficitlGDP(includinggrants, %)            n.a.            5.1               5.5
    Public debtlGDP (end of period, %)               429             223               200
    Exchange rate (G$ per US$,end of period)         27.2           142.4             190.6

Source: DevelopmentPolicy Review, WorldBank, June 2003

1.8        Since 1997, Guyana's growth performance has beenpoor owing to a combination o f
domestic and external factors. Onthe domestic front, these includedpolitical disturbances
following the December 1997 elections, a prolongedstrike by civil servants in 1999 over wages,
social unrest following the 2001 elections, abreakdowninnegotiations over constitutional
reforms, disputes over parliamentary management (leading to a boycott ofParliamentby the
opposition in2002-03)' a sharp increase inorganized crime and drug trafficking, andpolicy
slippages. External factors included adverse climatic conditions associatedwith ElNiiio (starting
in1997) andacyclicaldecline inkeycommodityprices (sugar, rice, andgold).

1.9        The adverse domestic factors reflecteda deepening o fthe ethnic divide. A 2002 FIAS
report identifiedthe "poisonous, racially divided, anti-cooperative political climate as Guyana's
numberone problem." Andthe Bank's 2003 DevelopmentPolicyReview identifiedthe
"governance crisis" as the number one issue. Annex E shows the steady and substantial
deterioration between 1996 and 2002 o f several key governance indicators, including political
stability, rule o f law, regulatory quality and control o f corruption.

1.10      Thus, while FISBEC andPSDAC were designed and approved duringaperiodo fgrowth,
relativepolitical stability, andoptimism about future economic development, the third finance
sector project, FinancialandPrivate Sector InstitutionalDevelopmentProject (FPID), approved
inNovember 1999, was launched at atime ofdeteriorating growth andgovernance. Whether or
not this had, or should have had, implicationsfor the design(and even the existence) o f FPID i s
considered inChapter 2. The implicationso f the deterioration ingovernance for the outcomes
andsustainabilityo fall three projects are discussed inChapters 3 and4.

                                                      3

2.       The Credits: Context, Objectives, and Design

IDA's AssistanceStrategy

2.1      Although the three IDAprojects evaluated inthis PPAR spannedthe years 1994-2002,
only one country strategy was ineffect for almost this entire period. IssuedinNovember 1993,
this set out the strategy for FY1994-96,* the years inwhich PSDAC andFISBEC were prepared
andapproved. The next (andcurrent) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was not issueduntil
May 2002, long after the closing o fPSDAC andFISBEC andonly months before the closing o f
FPID.

2.2      The 1993 country strategy notedthe enormous challenge facing the (thennew)
Government o f Guyana (GOG) including the need for major measuresto promote private sector
development (PSD), define GOG's role inthe economy, reform the public sector, rehabilitate the
infrastructure, strengthenthe social sectors, andprotect the environment. Citing Guyana's
exceptional macroeconomic performance and its prevailing good governance it proposedtwo
alternative lendingprograms: a highone and a low one, with the highprogramthe de facto base
case. This program consisted o ftwo projects per year for the years FY94-96 totaling about $55
million-a largeprogramfor a small country, implyingcommitments o f $25 per capita per year.
The lendingprogramwas intendedto focus on PSD and the social sectors.

2.3      The maindiagnostic instruments underlyingthe PSDenvironment improvement
objectives o fboth the country strategy and the projects assessed inthis PPAR were a 1993
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), a 1993 Private Sector Assessment (PSA), and a 1993
Public Sector Review. These comprehensive, timely, andtechnically competent documents
clearly identifiedthe needs for policy reform andthe constraints confrontingPSD.But while they
addressedthe policy, infrastmctural, and other constraints to transforming Guyana from a
socialist to a market economy, they didnot much address Guyana's institutional structures and
dynamics, the governance context (including implicationso fthe racialdivide), or ownership
issues (such as the different interest groups havinghighly divergent views about the reform
program). Consequently, these issueswere not much addressedinthe country strategy and
seemingly not taken into account indesign o fthe three finance sector projects.

2.4      Similarly, while the country strategy described a comprehensive set o fneededreforms, it
didnot muchaddressrelativepriorities (such as tax reform versus privatization); sequencing and
pacing issues (such as the needto synchronize improvement o f the regulatory regime with the
pace ofprivatizingpublic utilities); or the Bank's comparativeadvantages relative to other
donors, some operating inthe same sectors and sub-sectors. The 1993 country strategy's risk
assessmentwas limitedto the insufficient observation that the risks o f slippage were [seen as]
substantial becausethe adjustment process was likely to involve an intensivedialogue. But little
ifanyhintwas givenabout the significantrisksrelatedto weaknessesinownership, bothwithin
the rulingparty andacrosspoliticaVethnic lines, and to other governance-related factors to be
discussed below.




2. The 1993 strategy was not a separate CountryAssistance Strategy document but rather a statement o fIDA's
FY94-96strategy that appeared as a section inthe Memorandumofthe President for a Water Supply and
RehabilitationProject.

                                                 4

2.5     It is surprisingand regrettable that the next country strategy was not produced until2002,
 as country conditions -political, social, and economic -changed considerably after 1997 and
warranted a new stocktaking andre-thinkingo f what assistancestrategy would be appropriate
underthe changed conditions. The 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) gave considerable
 attention to Guyana's governance problems. As noted earlier, FISBEC and PSDAC were
 designedand implemented inthe mid-l990s, when governance was not such abindingconstraint.
Hence, the "fit" o fthose projects with local governance was a closer one than inthe case o f
FPID, approvedin 1999. FPIDwas however consistent with the de facto country strategy o f its
timethat calledfor a substantially scaled-back IDAprogram.

Project0bjectives

2.6     All three projects hadthe same over-arching objective ofimproving Guyana's
environment for private sector development; FPID also had a few components aimed at
strengthening selected areas o fpublic sector management. PSDAC was a policy-based
adjustment operation, while FISBEC and FPID were technical assistance (TA) projects. There
was considerable overlap intheir objectives and components. Figure 1shows the timeline o f the
three projects (plus that o f a related IDB financial sector adjustment operations).

Figure1: ProjectTimeline




                       1994     1995     1996  1997     1998    1999   2000    2001    2002

2.7     PSDAC's over-archingobjectivewas to spur progress inimproving the environmentfor
the private sector andthereby stimulate economic growth. Itsproximate/intermediate objectives
included: (i) maintenance o f the macro-framework agreedwith the IMF;(ii)       financial sector
reform through improving bank supervision andregulationmakingthe centralbank more
independent; (iii) merging andrestructuringkeypublic sector banks; (iv) undertaking a
comprehensive privatizationprogram; (iv) streamliningtrade procedures andharmonizingtariffs
with other nations inthe Caribbean; (v) updatinglaws andregulations governing corporations
(vi) establishing anagency to foster foreign investment; (vii) reformingcorporate and
consumption taxes; and (viii) eliminating discretionary investment incentives. As apolicy-based
adjustment operation, its main instruments were policy dialogue, balance o fpayments support,
anda set oftranche disbursement conditionalities.

2.8     PSDAC's conditionalitiesrequiredGOGto: achieve progress inits PrivatizationPlan
(bybringinggivennumbers ofstate-owned enterprises to point o f sale andto completiono f
privatization); to put into effect the FinancialInstitutions Act andthe Prudential Regulations; to
approve a billto increase the independence o fthe Bank o f Guyana (BOG); to define the mandate
andfuture strategy o fGO-Invest;draft regulations for the Companies Act of 1991; putinto effect
the Trade Refom Act; and maintain measuresincludedinthe Tax ReformPlan.

2.9     FISBEC's over-archingobjectivewas to implement sustainable institution-building
mechanisms supporting the financial andprivate sector, andto facilitate the effective
implementationo fpolicy measures supported by PSDAC. It was conceived from the outset to be

                                                  5
 complementary to, andsupportive of, the PSDAC agenda. Its components and instruments were:
 (i)
   consultants to carry out studies, provide advice, draft new laws and regulations, etc. (85
percent o f total allocated costs); (ii)training (11percent); and (ii)
                                                                     equipment and tangible goods
 such as computer hardware and software (4 percent). Another FISBEC instrument was the
 funding o fconsultancies andstipends of government oflcials (not all inthe agencies involvedin
project components) inline positions at salary levels far above those of the civil service.

 2.10   FWBEC's componentscomprised (i)           advisers andtraining inbankingsupervision; (ii) an
 advisory team to the PrivatizationUnit,plus the fimding of local senior staff o f the Unit; (iii)
 advisers to assist inthe mergerhestructuring o f GAlBANWGNCB; (iv) advisers andtraining to
 develop GO-Invest, the investment authority; (v) consultants to conduct environmental audits and
 assessments; (vi) an unallocated fund for contingencies; (vi) consultants for improving the
 Companies Act; (vii) consultants to provide advice andtraining inmonetary management inthe
BOG; (viii) a ProjectUnitinthe Ministryof Finance; and (ix) office equipment andcomputers
for the organizations listed above.

2.11    FPID's mainobjectivewas to consolidate measurestaken under previous structural
adjustment and TA programs andthereby foster private sector development. Inbroadterms this
meant advancing financial sector reforms and supporting privatization. A new objective was to
support the modernization o f the public sector through improved service delivery inprocurement,
auditing andpublic sector management.

2.12    FPID's main componentswere: (i)        supporting core functions o f the PrivatizationUnit;
(ii)implementinga new public sectorhumanresourcesmanagement andpayrollbudget tracking
system; (iii) re-structuring GNCB; (iv)modernizing procurementhidding for public sector
contracts; and (v) developing the securities market and insurance industry.Fundswere also
allocated to improvebanking sector regulation and public sector auditing capabilities. Eighty
percent o f total FPID expenditures was allocated to the provisionof consultants and advisers.
Although not explicitly identifiedinits appraisal report, FPID (like FISBEC) was intended to
fundsalarieskonsultancies of selectedgovernment officials plus ahighlypaidexpatriate
consultant to serve both a head o fthe Project Unit(inthe Office o fthe President) and as a senior
economic adviser to the President.

Relevanceof the ObjectivesandFitwith the CountryStrategy

2.13    The three projects were consistent with the country strategy of 1993. Butbecausethe
strategy itselfwas not as "strategic" a document as it might have been, almost any project might
have passedthis "consistency test." The missingelements at the strategic level-assessment o f
risks andrisk-rewardtradeoffs, identificationofwhich constraints were more andwhich less
binding, clear rationales for packaging, sequencing, andpacingo freforms-were reflectedin
the three projects at a tactical level. PSDAC inparticular was "relevant" as an intended catalyst to
policy reforms and as a source o fneeded balance o fpayments support to avoid debt defaults
(Guyana was then indefault to some creditors), to buildup foreign exchange reserves, to support
the exchange rate, andto finance importsneeded to rehabilitatethe infrastructure. PSDAC was
also relevant as an imprimatur o freform progress ina country trying to rehabilitate its investment
climate and attract direct private foreign investment.

2.14    FISBEC andFPIDhad similarlyrelevant objectives but less appropriate designs. All the
projects wouldhave been more relevant (and cost-effective) had there been less overlap with

                                                  6
 activitieshterests o fother donors and earlier concentration on strengthening the regulatory
 framework (not only inthe financial sector), the investment code/law, and thejudicial system-
 all areas o f importance to the investment climate.

 2.15    The mainstrengths of PSDAC's designwere that that the projectwas timely, provided
 much-needed foreign exchange, focused on reform areas that neededto be addressed, entailed
 generally good aid coordinationwith the IMFandDB, served as aninstrument for strengthening
 the policy dialogue betweenIDAandGOG, andat leastwith regardto the privatizationprogram,
 gave due attention notjust to accelerating privatizationbut also to important process issues andto
 the institutionalframework for privatization.

 2.16    The considerable overlap ofproject objectives and conditionalitieswith those of DB's
 $38 millionFinancial Sector Program(approved inAugust 1995) was both a strength and a
 ~eakness.~FSP's conditionalities included Guyana's maintaininga macro framework
 compatible with the reform program, merginghestructuringGNCB/GAIBANK, creating an
 independent central bank, implementingthe FinancialInstitutionsAct, and strengthening bank
 supervision, all o f which were also PSDAPconditionalities. The additional leverage was
 conducive to getting action. But the downside was a duplication o f effort, with some problems
 arisingalso from a lack o fharmonizedconditionalities.

2.17     Some shortcomingsin PSDAC's designwere (i)             the lack o fborrower participationin
project identificationandpreparation; (ii) "donor-driven" character o f the project, (iii)risk
                                             the                                                      a
assessment that, while identifying Guyana's extremely weak administrativecapacity, put too
muchreliance onFISBEC as an instrument for strengthening capacity; and (iv) the neglect o f
institutionalissues (thisbeingmore o f a country strategy issue than a project design issue), as
neitherthe country strategy nor the PSDAC directly addressedthe knotty issue ofhow policy
reforms andprivatizationshouldbephased with the more difficult task o fbuildingwell-
fbnctioning legal and economic institutions needed by a market economy -especially those
relatingto property rights, contract enforcement, commercialdispute resolution, andregulatipn o f
natural monopoly elements o fprivate andjoint-venture utilities.

2.18     The development o fthese institutions, especially thejudiciary andthe regulatory
authorities, was not given sufficient priority inthe 1990sby either GOGor the donors. All three
projects would have been more "relevant" had greater priority been given to addressing these key
institutionalissues.

2.19     The mainstrength of FISBEC designwas the complementarityo f its objectives and
plannedcomponents with PSDAC. This made it, inprinciple, highlyrelevant. The project's
designers correctly recognized the need for complementary TA, mainly inthe form o f external
consultants, who would beneededto help implement the PSDAC agenda. The project design also
gave appropriate recognitionto the need for capacity building, andhence included substantial
training bus-components within most o f the components identifiedabove.

2.20     FISBEC's maindesignweaknesswas that there was little prospect that its "blueprint"
would be implemented as designed. Virtually all the project resources were allocated for each


3. That IDB creditwas closedinNovember 2001, almost three years after itsoriginalclosingdate. The delay was
largelyowingto poorperformanceinstrengtheningthe mergedGAIBAWGNCB, whichwas also an area of
particularlyweakperformanceunderPSDAC, as will be describedinChapter3.

                                                  7

 year o fthe project period to specifically identifiedconsultants, studies, and training programs in
 each o f the project components. But this was simply not realistic inGuyana inthe mid-1990s. It
 would have been more realistic and appropriate to have adopted a "process" design that built in
 flexibility to components andtheir budgetsand timetables over the course o f the project. A
 related basic problemwas that, like PSDAC, FISBEC was highly donor-driven. Its designers
 notedthe risk o fweak ownership inthe project documents but didnot adopt a project design
 geared'to managingthat risk.

 2.21    The project documents didnot, however, indicate that FISBEC was intendedto bea
 vehicle for fundingmany long-term local consultancies and stipends for government officials,
 including for those inline positions. Bothas to eligibility for IDA financing and as a
procurement issue (for example, as to whether active civil servants can behired as consultants,
with de facto "topping up" of salaries), there were considerable gray areas inBank guidelines
 operative during the time FISBEC (and FPID) was being disbursed. And some o fthese gray
 areas remainto the present time. Inany event, while a strong case couldbe made for donor
 fundingo f Guyanese officials (who might otherwise have emigrated infar greater numbers)
 andwhile it isnot evident that guidelines were violated, the project documents andICRs for
these projects certainly should have at least identified the projects' intent to provide such
funding, andjustified the practice inrecognitiono fits "second-best" character (the first best
beingmeaningfulcivil service reform, includingo fthe salary and incentive structures). IDA
and other donors should also havebeen less tolerant o f GOG's lack ofprogress incivil service
reform. (These issues are discussedfurther below).

2.22     FPIDwas essentially acontinuationo fFISBEC, with several ofthe same objectives,
components, modalities, anddesign features but with some notable differences inits design
strengths andweaknesses. LikeFISBEC, FPID was a highly-specified "blueprint" design, but
this was muchmore appropriate because two largest components, GNCB andpayroll system
modernization, were well "secured," that is, had a highprobability o fbeing implemented.
FPID's designwas also improvedby givingmore attention to projectmanagement (which
provedto be weak inFISBEC). A notable strengtho fFPID's design was the establishment o f
its Project ImplementationUnit (PlU) inthe Office o fthe President, with the head o f the Unit
beinganeconomic adviser to the President. Except inthe payroll component, FPID(unlike
FISBEC) contained minimalprovisions for training andcapacity building.This was at the
same time realistic (given the disenabling environment for institutional development in
Guyana, to be discussed inChapter 4) yet regrettable inview o f the country's great needs for
capacity building.

2.23     Incontrastto FISBEC, whichwas ambitious butunrealistic, FPIDcanbesaidto have
beenrealistic but relatively unambitious, with its relevance diminishedby the deterioration in
governance which had occurred since early 1998. FPIDmight have beenmore "relevant" had
it sought to address some o fthe deeper governance issuesthat constituted the binding
constraints to PSD inGuyana, the improvement o fwhich was the "bottom line" objective o f
all projects. Yet given the complexity o fthose governance issues, and donors' limited
capacities to address them, attempting to do so would have beenvery ambitious, less
"realistic," and at highrisk o f failure. There are difficult tradeoffs involved here, but it i s a
lesson o frecent years that unless realprogress is made inimproving governance, TA projects
such as FPID will have little relevance to improving the environment for PSD inGuyana.

                                                    8


Box 1: Elements of GoodPractice/"GoodFit" inTA Projects
Elements of good practice in the development, appraisal, and managementhpervision of Bank
TA operations are identified intwo recentBank reports. This evaluationfinds that bothFISBEC
andFPID were lackinginseveral ofthese key elements.

    a   complementaritywith the Bank's CountryAssistance Strategy
    a   upstreamanalysisthat yields arealistic understandingof the client's demand
    a      for reform, governance context, incentives,andmanagement capacity
    a   client ownershipandparticipation inprojectpreparation
    a   clear objectives
    a   goodfit withlocal governance
    a   adequateproject managementpreparation
    a   medium-to long-termprocess-orientedapproachto implementation
    a   attentive supervisionby experiencedstaff
    a   adequate Bank staff skills and incentives

Sources: David Steedman, "Technical Assistance inthe PREMPortfolio: Stocktakingand
Lessons Learned" (World Bank, PovertyReductionand EconomicManagement, December
2001) and "Lessons andPracticesinTA" (World Bank, OperationsEvaluationDepartment,
1996).



 3.       ImplementationExperience
 3.1      PSDACImplementation: PSDAC was filly disbursedandits implementationwas
 reasonably satisfactory. Minor waivers o f conditionalitywere made concerningfinal sale o f a
 dairy complex and the sale o f shares inGuyana Stores. Some privatization delays resulted ina
 reductioninsecond tranche conditionality regarding the number o f enterprises to bebrought to
 point o f sale, butthis shortfall was made upby the time o fthirdtranche release.

 3.2     PSDAC implementationwas on target with regard to macroeconomic stabilization, the
 numberofprivatizations, strengthening bank supervision, promulgationof a new Companies
 Law, andtrade liberalization. Steps were also taken to eliminate discretionaryincentives andto
 makethe central bankindependent, althoughthese objectives were not infact achieved. PSDAC
 implementation fell short o f its aims with regard to GAIBANWGNCB restructuring, corporate
 tax reform, andinstrengthening the capacity andeffectiveness o fGO-Invest.

 3.3     Withrespect to macroeconomicstabilization, between end-1994 and end-1997, the
 inflationrate fell from 16percent to 4 percent, the fiscal deficit fell from 6 percent to 4 percent o f
 GDP, and economic growth averaged over 6 percent. With regard tofinancial sector reforms,
 implementation of the new FinancialInstitutions Act and its regulations (inconformity with
 Basle standards) was an important achievement, and anew CentralBank Act intendedto make
 the central bankmore independent was presented to Parliament. A new Companies Law and
 regulations were promulgated. Tradeliberalization measures entailed reducing maximum tariff
 rates fiom 45 percent to 20 percent inaccordance with the CARICOM Extemal TariffAgreement
 while import and export licensing requirements were significantly reduced. PSDAC's
privatization targets were also achieved (and slightly exceeded) as 19 SOEs andminority shares

                                                9

 in2 entities werebroughtto point ofsalewhile completedsaleswere registered for 12SOEsplus
 minority shares.

 3.4     GAZBANKand GNCBwere merged as planned (although apreferred objectivewould
 have been that GAIBANKbe liquidatedand GNCB privatized), but the new GNCB's corporate
 govemance and management were poor and the bank's performance deteriorated rather than
 improved. An important factor explainingthis unsatisfactory development was GOG's rehsal,
 until 1999,to accept anexpatriate managementteam to dealwiththe corruptionplaguingthat
 enterprise. The plannedreform incorporatetaxation didnot materialize, nor did the disbanding
 o f GUYMIDA, an agency responsible for issuing discretionary incentives, result inthe intended
 elimination o f discretionary incentives.. PSDAC's objective to foster GO-Investas a one-stop
 agency to promote private investmentwas also not achieved duringimplementation owing to low
 GOGcommitment, weak leadership and staffing, andthe lack ofprogress instreamliningthe
 investment process.

 3.5     FISBECImplementation:FISBEC's closingwas delayedbyone year owingto major
 delays indisbursements. As o fthe initial closing date, only 27 percent hadbeen disbursed. Inthe
 last, extended year, the remainder ($2.2 million) was disbursed, mainly to finance an expatriate
 management team inGNCB (an existingcomponent) and legal work relatingto privatization o f
 the power company (an ad hoc allocation representingIDA'Sfirst and only involvement in
 Guyana's power privatization. As notedabove, FISBEC started with a highly specified design
 that could not be implemented from the outset. Hence, it became, by default, a more flexible
project but one lacking inpre-defined processes and safeguards that characterize projects
intentionally designed that way. The extent to which FISBEC's actual allocations differedfrom
planned allocations i s shown inTable 2. This represented a significant defacto althoughnot a de
jure restructuring.

3.6      The components for monetarymanagement, environmental audits, GO-Invest, and
companies regulationvirtually disappeared from the project, while the bankingsupervision
component was scaled back to about a quarter o fwhat hadbeenplanned. Meanwhile, much
larger-than-planned outlays were made for the PrivatizationandProjectUnit,with only the
GAIBANWGNCBcomponent beingrelativelyunchanged. The projectbecame, ineffect, just
these last three components.
                      I

                                                 10

Table2: PlannedVersus ActualFISBEC Outlays,
By Main Component

Item                                             Planned*                     Actual
                                                    %                           %
 Banking Supervision                                27                          7
 Monetary Management                                3                           0
 Restructuring GAIBANWGNCB                          17                          20
 PrivatizationUnit                                  21                          59
 Environmental Audits                               13                          3
 GO-Invest                                          14                          1
 Companies Regulation                               4                           0
 Proiect UnitIPIU)                                  2                           10
* Figuresdo nottotal 100%owing to rounding

3.7      Oftenincountries withweak govemance andinstitutions, when components from
"blueprint" projects like FISBEC are dropped or scaled-back, the projects become preyto rent-
seekers. It i s therefore to the credit o f FISBEC that its freed-up funds remainedundisbursed
rather thanbeingre-allocated to low-priority uses.

3.8      A principalreasonwhy FISBEC disbursements inthe first three years were far below
what had beenplannedis that both the PrivatizationUnit and GNCB were resistant to using
foreign consultants or management teams. This resulted indelays inthe rate o fprivatizations, and
inthe caseofGNCB, this delay was costly asbadloans (to be assumedbythe State) mounted.
Performance on this important component o fFISBEC was unsatisfactory untilthe last, extended
year, when conditionalitieson outstanding adjustment operations (IDB, IMF, andHPC) finally
got GOGto accept an expatriate management team inGNCB. The reason why FISBEC didnot
finance environmental audits as plannedwas that this function was performedby consultants
financed on grant terms by DFID, which also financed many consultants to the PUfor other
privatizationtasks.
3.9      One significant FISBEC role (not explicitly identifiedinthe appraisalreport or ICR) was
the financing of salaries/consultancies for line officials not only inFISBEC-related agencies
(including GNCB, GO-Invest, Bank o f Guyana, and the MOFPU), but also departments not
directly concerned with project components, as inthe Office o fthe President, Guyana Revenue
Authority, andthe budget department o fMOF.

3.10     The fivefold increase over plannedallocations for the ProjectUnit(PIU) were largely to
finance a consultant, later to become the project manager for FPID, who served as an economic
adviser to the Minister o fFinance. This was a "positive externality" o fthe project during
implementation. As for the PIUitself, while the legal documents called for its creation within
MOF, this was not done andthe projectwas under-managed onthe government side, albeit with
some improvement in 1998-99. Indeed, as described inBox 2, FISBEC was repeatedly criticized
by Guyana's Auditor-General's Office for lax management andfor its non-response to these
criticisms.

                                                     11

Box2: Commentson FISBECby Guyana's Auditor-General's Office
From the 1998 Report on FISBEC: "Periodic progress reports on the works performed by

be determinedto what extent progress was made on.. .reforms inthe various sectors.. .."
consultants.. .were not produced for audit inspection despite requests for same. Consequently it could not


From the 1999 Report on FISBEC: ``An adequate management structure was not in place to ensure
timely monitoring, evaluation and reporting o f the progress o f the project.. ..It could not be ascertained
whether there was competitive bidding in the awarding o f the contracts to the consultants since relevant
records and documents were not produced for audit inspection,, ..Additionally it could not be ascertained
whether all the services to be provided in accordance with the contracts were actually rendered, since
relevant legal documents were not provided for audit inspection, A satisfactory explanation was also not
obtained for this state o f affairs. The project did not operate with an annual budget. This matter was also
the subject o f adverse comment in my report on the previous year's accounts. ..The requirement was not
met [that] the Borrower shall provide.. .the amounts required as counterpart funds for the execution o f the
project."


3.11    A majorproblemfor OED as well as the Auditor-General inassessingthe performance of
FISBEC i s that monitoring andreporting on the project, whether inthe PIU, insupervision
reports or inthe ICR, was almost always interms o fprogress toward component/development
objectives (for example, to strengthenthe banking supervision department o f GOG) without a
clear indication o fwhat role the particular consultants or studies or training or equipment funded
byFISBECactuallyplayed. Hardlyany referencewas made inthese reports, for example, to the
terms o freference or efficacy or cost-effectiveness o fparticular consultants, or to studies and
their quality, impact, andcost-effectiveness. Moreover, thereportingonprojectprogress (both in
supervision reports andinthe ICR) tended to give credit to FISBEC for the achievement o f
project objectives that were moreproperly attributable to other donors.

3.12    As notedabove, FISBEC was a significant source of adhoc hndingo f salaries and
consultancies, some inagencies unrelated to FISBEC objectives and components. The benefit o f
this practice was that it enabled GOGto usemanyskilledpeople who otherwise mightnot have
been available at civil service salaries. Mucho fthe business o f government simply would not
have beenpossible otherwise. Butneither inthe design nor the evaluations o f either FISBEC or
FPIDwas thispractice identified orjustified, or its serious downsides andnegative externalities
at all considered.

3.13    FISBEC implementationo f its traininghapacity buildingsubcomponents (planned at 10
percent o ftotal project costs) fell well short o fwhat was planned. This was partly a cause and
partlya consequenceofthe change inallocations andreflectkdalso the inherent difficulties of
capacity buildingandinstitutional development inGuyana

3.14    FPID: Implementation:FPIDclosed as plannedinDecember 2002, havingbeen over 90
percent disbursed. Its implementationwas moderately satisfactory. FPID's design survived much
more intact thanhadFISBEC's, as its largest components, for GNCB restructuring andpayroll
system modemization, were disbursedmore or less as planned.

3.15    Unlike most FISBEC andFPID components, the modernization ofthe payroll system was
an essentially technical task that didnot involve removingor reducingrents (as insome
privatizations, GNCB, andprocurement). This component, unlike most others, had strong GOG
ownership while MOF's payroll division had staffwho were motivated (including by substantial

                                                    12

salary supplements paid from FPID) and qualified to manage their own component with little
interference from other parts o f GOG.

Table3: PlannedVersusActualFPID, Outlays,By MainComponentGroup

Item                                          Planned+                 Actual
                                                  %                      %
FinancialSector (mainly GNCB)                     27                     20
PrivateSector Development                         38                     49
(mainly PU)
Public Sector Business Services                   26                     29
(mainly payrollsystem modernization)
Contingencies                                     9                      2*
Total                                            100                     100
*Unused/undisbursed,therefore not added into total
Source:ICRAnnex Table 2d

3.16    Thus, althoughthe payroll component was an adhoc, last-minute additionto FPID, its
implementationproceeded satisfactorily inthe first phase (to enable the system to meet Y2K
standards).Progress was slower inthe secondphase o fgetting an integrated humanresources
management system. About $1 millionwas disbursed on this component, o fwhich about
$100,000 was spent on training. This was one o f the few components o f either FISBEC or FPID
where capacity buildinggot significant attention andresources.

3.17    The Auditor-General component also had good client ownership andmanagement and
involved some capacity building.But this component was very small, entailing only about
$40,000 to finance 75 staffweeks o ftraining for 24 staffinperformance as well as forensic
auditing. The training was provided inGuyana by the U.S.Department o fAgriculture, and was
reportedly (by the Auditor-General's Office) cost-effective and o f good quality. The actual and
prospective departure o f trained staffhas so far beenmoderate, partly because a new law (not yet
passed) would establish a much-improved salary scale for the Auditor-General's Office. This
component was well implemented, but it has to be questioned how cost-effective it i s for IDAto
fundthis type andsize ofcomponent whenIDBis providing similar assistanceandwould seem
to have a comparative and competitive advantage there at a time when no IDAproject for public
sector management was inplace.

3.18    Some components o fFPID, namelyprocurement, securities andinsurance, while never
formally dropped, didnot materialize as plannedas other donors and another IDA operation
essentially displaced FPID. DFID, rather thanFPID, provided TA inthe securities area and the
work on procurement reform appears to have beendone not under FPIDbut rather inconnection
with preparation o fthe IDAPovertyReduction Strategy Credit (PRSC). As inthe case o f
FISBEC, supervision reports and the ICRtended to blurthe matter o fwhether it was FPID or
other donors' assistance that was enabling progress to be made on those components.

3.19    FPID's financing o fthe PIUinthe Office ofthe President hadimportant andpositive
externalities as the PIUwas essentially the counterpart for IMFnegotiations, the IDBprogram,
HIPC, implementationo finternationalfinancial institution conditionality, coordinationof the
PRSP process, andpreparation o fthe PRSC. So, while FPIDhad a "less-than-planned" impact in
some o f its focus areas, it had a "more-than-planned" impact inother important areas.

                                                       13

 4.       Outcomes andAssessments

 Outcomes

 4.1      OED defines outcome as "the extentto which aproject's major relevant objectives were
 achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently." Outcome therefore includes both what was
 achieved duringimplementationand since project closing, up to the present time. Inassessing
 the extent to which the outcomes o fFISBEC, PSDAC, andFPIDwere satisfactory or not,
 emphasis is given here to performance on the intermediate objectives (such as privatization,
 GNCBrationalization, etc.) vis avis the ultimate objective ofimprovingthe country's
 environment for PSD, recognizingthat the deterioration o f governance inrecent years has very
 adversely affected Guyana's business environment, and inso doing has diminishedthe projects'
 relevance andbenefits.

 4.2      Previous chapters have dealt insome detail with the projects' designs, relevance, and
 efficacy duringthe implementationperiod, so this chapter does not repeat those findings but
 rather provides supplemental and updated findings about outcomes inseveral component areas
 where PSDAC policy conditionalitiesor TA outlays were particularly significant, namely,
privatization (with special reference to the power company, the largest privatization andone
 where considerable IDA TA funds were expended), discretionary incentives, independence o f the
 centralbank, and GNCB. It then provides assessmentsandratings o fthe projects' outcomes,
 sustainability, institutionaldevelopment impact, Bankperformance andBorrower performance.

4.3       Privatization: As described inthe implementationsection, many state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) havebeenbrought to point of sale andprivatized since FISBEC was approved in
December 1994. However, most o fthese privatizations were of small companies o f limited
consequence to the economy or to the investmentclimate. The largest privatizations were GEC,
the power company, GNCB andtwo other banks, and Guyana Airways. To the credit o f GOG,
since the mid-1990s the overall quality o fthe privatizationprocess, specifically its openness and
probity, appears to have beenreasonably good. Evidently, insider dealing and other forms o f
major corruptionwere avoided, and good marks inparticular are given to the leadership o fthe
PU, the senior staffo fwhich was paidbyFISBEC andFPID.Provisionwas also made to reduce
the social costs o fprivatization.

4.4       The most important issue inassessingthe outcome o fprivatization is whether constructive
restructuring(as opposed to asset-stripping) took place after privatization, andwhat happened to
the productivity, profitability, andviability o fthe former SOEs. Unfortunately, data needed to
answer these questions are not yet available. The PUplansto do a post-privatization study, but
this i s not yet underway. The limitedavailable information4indicates that inthe bankingsector
(leaving aside GNCB, which was substantially restructured before its privatization in2003) not
muchmodernizationhas takenplace, with services continuingmuch as before privatization.
Guyana Airways was liquidated shortly after its privatization andthe largest privatization, o f
GEC, has failed, with serious adverse impact on the investment climate (Box 2). OED finds that




4. Sources for thisjudgment include mission interviews, the Bank's DPR, publications o fthe Economist
Intelligence Unitand OxfordAnalytica.

                                                     14

the outcome ofprivatization(only a smallpart ofwhich is directly attributable to the three IDA
projects) has been mixed.5

                                   ~~              ~




Box 3: The Unhappy Story of GEC Privatization
After years o f preparation and false starts, the Guyana Electric Company was privatized in 1999. FISBEC
paid about $1million inlegal fees to an American law firm consuItingto the Privatization Unit concerning
this privatization. The ICR for FPID cited this privatization, the largest to date, as a major
accomplishment,
What the ICR neglected to mention, however, was the well-known fact that in April 2003 the power
company (now called GPL) was re-nationalized. After having invested about $20 millioninthe company,
the foreign partner sold its 50 percent share back to the Government for $1 and left Guyana.            Between
 1999 and 2003, tariffs o f the privatized power company (which were set outside the domain o f the Public
Utility Commission) were raised considerably by GPL. This rendered the company more financially
viable than before, but both technical and commercial losses increased after privatization, partly because
of constraints upon GPL's ability to make collections and suspend services by non-payers. This was
simultaneously a failure o f privatization and o f utilityregulation, not a positive achievement as the FPID
ICR implied. This outcome was unsatisfactory in that it reflected and perpetuatedboth the unreliability
and high cost o f electricity needed by companies operating in the private sector and the Government's
failure to establish appropriate "rules o f the game" for utilityprivatization. OED was unable to ascertain
what role the large FISBEC outlays for privatization consultancies played inthe outcome. This was partly
owing to the generally inadequate monitoring and vetting o f the quality o f project consultancies and
studies by either IDA or GOG.


4.5      Social Impact ofAdjustment: PSDAC didnot contain specific objectives or components
relating to poverty alleviation or the social impact of adjustment. But the privatizationprogram
didprovide for worker participationandcompensation anda Social Impact Amelioration
Programwas undertaken. Reflectingmainly the highGDP growth of the mid-l990s, the
proportion o fthe populationclassified as below the poverty line fell from 43 percent inthe early
1990sto 35 percent by 1999, with a decline also o fthe incidence o fhouseholds classified as very
poor. Income distributionremained moderate, with a Gini coefficient estimated at 0.4 for 1999.
The social impact o f adjustment therefore seems to have beenrelatively favorable inthe 1990s.
Butthis improvementwillbehardto sustain inlightofthe slowdown ingrowth andthe country's
governance and fiscal problems o frecent years.

4.6     Elimination of Discretionary Incentives: Whereas the PSDAC ICR citedthe achievement
o f elimination o f Guyana's discretionary incentives by 1997, the Bank's 2002 Country Financial
Accountability Assessment found that high-level officials exercise unusuallyhighdegrees o f
discretioninmakingdecisions o f considerable financial impact. Areas involving the dubious use
of discretionincluderemissions o f taxes for investment, corporate taxes, disputes inrelationto
tax penalties, remissions o fcustoms duties, andpurchaseso fpublic land. A 2002 FIASreport
also stated that excessive case-by-case discretionary decision-makinginGuyana was a recipe for
unclear governance, redtape, differential treatment o fcompanies or business people who should
betreated equally, andan invitationto corruption. Newtax andprocurement laws are gearedto
greatly reduce discretionary incentives but these remainto be implemented.


5. The outcome ofthe privatizationo ftelecommunications, undertakenbefore the three D A projects, has also
reportedlybeenunsatisfactory.

                                                  15

4.7      Independence of the Central Bank: The PSDAC ICR cited as an achievement under
PSDAC the tabling inParliament o f a central bank act to promote central bank autonomy.
However, reflectingweak GOGownership o fthis intent, as o f 2003 there was still inoffice only
an acting governor o f the central bank, serving at the pleasure o fthe President -a clear violation
of the spirit ifnot the letter o f the law. The CentralBankremains to achieve significant
autonomy.

4.8      Trade, Tax,and Other Policy Reforms: Ingeneral, with regardto those other policy
reform objectives where PSDAC was successful duringimplementation, the outcomes since
project closing have been generally positivenotwithstandingsome notable lapses, as for example
the inadequate supervisiodregulation o f Globe Bank (a failedprivatebank). Progress has
continuedintrade reforms, including the hrther lowering andharmonization o f tariffs with other
CARICOM countries. GO-Invest,the agency to foster foreign investment, has been resuscitated
with the aid ofother donors butremains weak. But the intendedreform o fcorporate and
consumption taxes has continued to be postponed untilvery recently.

4.9      The GNCB Story: Success or Failure? Or Both? The PSDACEISBEC objective o f
getting substantial restructuring o fthe merged G A I B A W G N C B was not realized, as mentioned
above, becausemismanagement, poor corporate governance, and corruption led to mounting
rather than reduced losses. Only in 1999was the positive step taken, under HIPC conditionality
pressure, to bringinan expatriate management team. The stated FPID objective for GNCBwas
not its privatizationbut rather its returnto a profitablenet earnings position, with a reduced share
o f its non-performing loanportfolio andincreased collections on defaulting loans. Evenwith the
leverage o fHIPC conditionality, however, progress toward these objectives was slow. But
finally, with the prodding o f PRGF leverage, GNCB was brought to point o f sale in2002 and
sold in2003 to the existinglargestprivate bank inGuyana, NBIC, ownedbythe Republic Bank
o f Trinidad. The bulk o fnon-performing loans (including those inherited from GAIBANK) were
not taken over bythe privatizedbankbut was rather transferred to the Government collection
agency.

4.10     This privatizationwas no doubt animportant achievement and a positive outcome,
marking(as the ICRobserved) the creation ofa fully privatizedfinancial system inGuyana. Yet
this "success" is qualifiedbythe fact that theprocess took far longerthan it shouldhave, withthe
state takingover a far larger portfolio o f bad debts thanit should have. Moreover, by the time that
GOGwas finally ready to proceed withthe sale, the investment climate hadworsened
considerably, causing a prospective Canadian investorto withdraw andthe final sale price to be
less than it would have beenhadthe privatization come sooner.

4.11 Consideringthe Counterfactual, RelatedAttributionIssues,andthe Projects'
UltimateObjective: Project evaluation shouldbebasednot upon"before/after" comparisons but
rather upon "witWwithout" assessment, i.e. the assessment o fhow outcomes would have been
different hadthe projects not existed. This i s inevitably speculative inTA and adjustment projects
where formal models are not applicable, and i s all the more difficult where, as inthe case o fthe
three IDAprojects, multipledonors are pursuingmore or less identical project objectives through
overlappingprojects.

4.12     Inthis context, it is importantto distinguishbetween"the achievement ofIDAproject
objectives'' (such as FISBEC's objective to perform environmentalaudits) and "IDA project
achievements", i.e. outcomes clearly attributable to the impact o fthe IDAprojects. Since the

                                                16

environmental audits were actually financed andmanaged by DFIDrather thanIDA, they were
clearly not an "IDA project achievement". Unfortunately, supervision missions andproject ICRs
tended to give undue credit to IDA for progress also on bankingsupervision, monetary
management, procurement, and insurance and securities regulationthat was more attributable to
other donors. The counterfactual for these components i s that the outcomes would have beenthe
same inthe absence o f the IDA projects. Conversely, the completion report for IDB's Financial
Sector Program didnot adequately credit PSDAC for its role inadvancing some reforms targeted
bythat project. IDA'Sdiagnostic andpreparatory work for PSDACwas clearlyimportant to both
projects andto GOG's ownpolicy agenda, so the counterfactual assessment for PSDAC i s that i s
that the pace o fprivatization andpolicy reform would have slower inPSDAC's absence. Iti s
considerably harder to attribute significant and lastingimpacts to the two TA projects.

4.13    While emphasis inthis PPARhas been givento evaluating the projects inregardto their
intermediate objectives, their ultimate or "bottom line" objective to improve Guyana's business
environment has not been achieved. Duringthe mid-l990s, PSDAC certainly had a significant
positive effect onthe business environment whereas the two TA projectshad a'much smaller
effect. But all the benefits were largely swampedinrecent years by the adverse impact o fthe
deterioration inpolitical stability, personal security, and the quality o f governance. As Annex E
shows, there were sharp declines inrule o f law, control o f corruption, andthe quality o f
regulation. Reflecting these developments, the rate of private investment has fallen steadily from
13 percent o fGDP in 1998 to 7 percent in2002, loans and advances to the private sector are
down, and emigrationabroad, including o fbusinessmen, has risen-all indicators that the
"bottom line" objectives are not beingmet.

4.14    Outcome Ratings: FISBEC's relevance was reducedby its unrealistic objectives weak
ownership, and faulty design while its efficacy was low owing to the dropping o fmany
components, slow progress inGNCB, and its failure to foster sustainable institutionbuilding.The
efficacy o fthe large outlays for GEC privatizationcouldnot be ascertained. OED rates the
overall outcomeof FISBECas unsatisfactory.

4.15    PSDACwas highlyrelevant while its efficacywas mixed. Progress was satisfactory on
macroeconomic stabilization, privatizationo f small to medium-size enterprises, financial sector
regulation, and trade liberalizationand unsatisfactory ineliminating discretionary investment
incentives, renderingthe CentralBankautonomous, reforming corporate taxes, restructuring
GNCB, anddeveloping a one-stop shop for promoting investment. On balance OED rates the
overall outcomeof PSDAC moderatelysatisfactory.

4.16    FPIDwas only moderatelyrelevant while the efficacy o fits two maincomponents was
mixed. Progress was good inthe payroll component but was slow inthe GNCB component, albeit
with anultimatelypositive outcome o fGNCB privatization. Itdidlittle to directly achieve its
broadobjective to provide an enabling transactional environment for private sector business, but
the externalities cited above were important andpositive. On balance OED rates the overall
outcome of FPID as moderately satisfactory.

Sustainability

4.17    OED defines sustainability as "resilience to risk o fnet benefits flows over time." In
contrast to all three ICRs, which didnot identifyserious risks (andtherefore rated the

                                                         17
sustainabilityo fthe projects likely): this PPAR finds Guyana to behighly vulnerable to several
kindsofserious risks. This findingisnot OED's own, as it isbasedlargely onBank's documents.
The 2002 CAS declared its assistance strategy to be "a high risk one for the Bank, with a significant
probability that the low case scenario would be triggered during the CASperiod." (Italics added). The
CAS found inparticular that "the risk o f escalating political instabilityremains high," and it cited
the related risk o f loss o fmomentum and focus on the refom agenda. Other risks found to be
 substantial were fiduciary risks related to weaknesses inthe fiduciary and accountability
framework, implementationcapacity (weakened by continued highemigrationo f skilled
Guyanese), fiscal management risks, and external shock risks

4.18      The 2002 CFAA assigned Guyana a highcountry risk rating, while the 2003 DPR
discusses at length Guyana's multiple serious vulnerabilities and its need for radical improvement
inthebusinessclimatethroughmacroeconomic stability, bettergovernance, andimprovedsocial
capital andphysicalinfrastructure; diversification o fthe economic base into high-value,
competitive activities; andthe restructuring o f the traditional sectors-miningand sugar. These
were found to be necessary conditions for a better economic outlook. Another major donor
classifies Guyana as highrisk and as apre-conflict situation.

4.19      There are some positive signs o fthe government's new intent to decrease some o fthese
risks, as for example, its recent passage o f a procurement refom law and a communiquk inMay
2003 that provided some limited opportunities for sharedgovernance with the opposition party.
Yet the trends o frecent years, mostparticularlyinthe governance indicatorsshown inAnnex E,
have beeninthe wrong direction andthe recent improvements (as compared to 2002) are yet not
sufficient to promise significant improvement inthe (now depressed) net benefits o f the projects.
OEDtherefore rates the sustainability of all threeprojects as unlikely.

InstitutionalDevelopment Impact

4.20      All three projects hadimportant institutionaldevelopment (ID)objectives andproject
components. But Guyana's environment for IDandcapacity buildinghas been"disenabling" in
important respects that severely constrained the ability o f IDA (or any donor's) projects to have
their intended ID impact, viz:

      0   Guyana's political and state institutions lack cross-ethnic legitimacy. Especially in
         recent years, the ethnic divide and its associatedtensions, distrust, anddysfunctional
          consequences has permeated all institutions, makingthem less effective. This is ahuge
          impedimentto sustainable ID
      0   The lack of civil service reform (including a much-needed decompression o f salary
          scales and a redefinition o f institutional and individual responsibilities) i s inimical to
         retaining able andmotivated staff inthe civil service, especially since emigrationi s a
         viable option for most skilled staff. Donors speak o f a "hollowed out" government with a
         "missing middle" levelo fpublic servants.
     0   Training can be a "black hole" (as one senior donor official put it) inthat, largely for the
         reasons above, as staffturnover i s very high, selection o fthose to be trained is sometimes

6. Remarkably, eventhough the ICRs were issuedinJune 1998, December 1999, and June 2003, respectively,
that is well after the politicalviolence eruptedin 1998 and up through the most serious "governance crisis" period
of2002 to mid-2003, no mention was madeinthe ICRs of ethnic, political or social problems that mightposeany
relevant risks to the benefits ofthe IDAprojects.

                                                 18
        politicized, and staffmay not behighlymotivated to acquire technical and managerial
        skills when their advancement may seem to depend more upon senior or personal
        affiliations than on merit. IDA and other donors' T A projects have longbeen
        characterized by a shortage of counterparts to receive on-the-job training.
    0   IDhasbeenapproachedina piecemeal,adhocway rather thanina systematic and
        coordinated way. There i s no nationalIDvision or strategy with clear criteria for setting
        priorities and sequencing activities
    0   Overlycentralizeddecision-makingand micro-managementfrom the top hasreduced
        efficiency and de-motivated institutional staff at all levels, constraining ID
    0   Donorpracticesof salary supplementation(includingpayingconsultants to do linejobs
        inthepublic service) andofhiringat highsalaries the best qualifiedstaff for their Plus
        can underminethe development o f existing institutions, create parallel structures, distort
        incentives, breedresentments and foster a powerful constituency opposed to civil service
        reform.

4.21    PSDACdidnot have capacity buildingcomponents but it didhave anIDimpact inthe
broader sense o fchanging some important "rules o f the game" through its positive effects on
privatization, trade liberalization, and financial sector legislation. It didnot howeverhave the
intended IDimpacts on either GNCB/GAIBANK or on GO-Invest, nor didit address the
systemic problems mentionedabove. OEDrates PSDAC'sIDIas modest (this beingequivalent
to the ICRrating o f "partial.").

4.22    FISBECandFPIDplayedapositiverole inchangingthe ruleso fthe game inGNCB and
fostered some capacity buildinginthe PU(mainly through "substitution TA") but bothprojects
were weak on ID. InFISBEC, this was mainlybecausethe training andcapacity buildingsub-
components were never implementedwhile inFPID's case it was mainly becauseonly inthe
payroll modernizationcomponent was any significant amount o f capacity buildingattempted.
BothFISBEC and FPID, through their payments o fthe salaries o f local stafUconsultants, did
thereby prevent an erosion o f institutionalcapacities that might otherwise have taken place,
especially via emigration. Butwhile this practice had a short-term positive IDI,it also has
adverse effects on institutional development that may be difficult to overcome inthe longer term.
Neitherproject addressedthe systemic problemsmentioned above which render sustainable
capacity buildinginGuyana a near impossible task. OED rates theIDI ofboth FISBEC and
FPID negligible.

BankPerformance

4.23    PSDAC:Bankperformance was onthe whole goodduringidentification, preparation,
andappraisal. Theproject documents revealconsiderable thoroughness andtechnical competence
inpreparation. Therewas considerableparticipationwithstakeholders duringpreparation,
althoughsome stakeholders reported that this took the form o fBank staff explainingwhat had
already been decided upon. Cooperation with the IMFwas good andwith IDBwas fair. More
division o f labor andresponsibility with IDBwould have beendesirable. Supervision entailed
five missions averaging 2.6 missionmembers providing 73 supervisiondays -well below what
hadbeenplanned. Inevitably, becausethe project components spanned several sectors andthe
supervision missions could not provide specialists inall these sectors, much o f the supervision
was inthe nature o fmonitoringrather thanproviding expert advice andproblem-solving
assistance. OED rates Bankperformance overall as satisfactory.

                                                   19

4.24        FISBEC:The identificationanddesignofthis project seriously misjudgedthe extent of
borrower ownership and commitment to carry out the project as designed. Consultation and
borrower participation inidentification andpreparation was insufficient, andwrong assumptions
were made about the borrower's willingness to use expatriate consultants at internationalprices
inseveralcomponents. This seriously affectedproject implementation. FISBEC was deficient
regarding its (i)    upstreamanalysis o fthe client's demands, governance context, incentives, and
management capacity; (ii) "fit" with localgovernance; (iii) management preparation;
                               the                                 project
and(iv) medium- to long-termprocess-oriented approach to implementation. Designo fthe
G A I B W G N C B component was flawed. There were nine supervision missions between
November 1994 and July 1999, with most missions focusing on monitoring. Bank supervision
was too permissiveof lax project management bythe borrower andtoo little attention was paid to
the quality o fconsultants andtheir advice andstudies andto cost-effectiveness. OED rates Bank
performance overall as unsatisfactory.

4.25        FPID: The identificationandpreparation ofthis project gave more attentionthanFISBEC
to matters o fproject management andborrower ownership and willingness to use expatriate
consultants, and so it was more realistic albeit less ambitious inits objectives. At the sametime,
because governance issueshadbecome quite problematic by 1999, when FPIDwas being
prepared, appraised, andnegotiated, the neglect o f governance issues and the consequent "loose
fit" with local governance was a more serious omission. Inthese circumstances it mustbe
questioned whether a "low risk, moderate relevance, low gain" project i s really worth
undertakingvis a vis a higher relevance, higher risk project addressing systemic IDand
governance problems.

4.26        FPIDsupervision entailed five supervision missions over three years averaging 2.4
supervision personnel per mission. The supervision reports again concentrated on monitoring
( v i s - h i s technicalproblem solving) and largely reported on progress against objectives. Too
little attention was given to efficacy, the quality o f the consultants' work and advice, and cost-
effectiveness. On balance, OED rates Bankperformance overall as satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

4.27        PSDAC:GOGwas too muchapassivepartner inmany donor-drivenprojects, including
all three IDAprojects under review. But there seems to have been a fair amount o fborrower
acquiescenceat the time inthe PSDAC objectives, so borrower "ownership" was adequate. As
the ICRnoted, the process was slowedbythe need for Cabinet approval o f even the technical
details o f every proposal while Government efforts to buildbroad-based support were initially
limiteddue to reluctance to shareinformationwith the opposition. There was considerable GOG
ambivalence about doing what was necessary to achieve the privatization and GNBC
rationalization targets, andthis causeddelays andinefficiencies inimplementation. Over the
project period, borrower performance improvedand conditionalities were fulfilled.. Therefore,
OED rates overall borrower performance on thisproject as satisfactory.

4.28        FISBEC:Fromproject identificationthrough appraisal, the borrowerwas ambivalent
about its intentions regarding the various FISBEC components, especially concerning its intent to
use expatriate consultants funded by FISBEC. So the borrower was partlyresponsible for IDA'S
unrealistic expectations as to the extent to which the FISBEC design would be implemented. It
was also a borrower shortcomingthat it delayed certainprivatizations andprovedreluctant to use
FISBEC resources for needed consultants inprivatizationand inthe GNBC component until

                                                  20

 1999. These delays were costly to the country. It i s also not clear whether the last year's large
commitment o fresources related to GEC privatizationwas cost-effective. As the Auditor-
 General's reports make clear, moreover, there were serious deficiencies inborrower management
o fthe project. OED rates borrower performance for thisproject as unsatisfactory.

4.29    FPID:The same questions raised about Bankperformance inFPID, i.e. withrespect to
whether this project could have and should have more seriously addressed system IDand
governance issues, would apply also to borrower performance. Borrowerperformance on the
privatization and GNBC andpayroll components was satisfactory but too little attention was paid
to instrument efficacy andcost-effectiveness. The fbnding o f salary supplements remained
problematic inthe continuing absence o f civil service reform and the systemic problems o f IDin
Guyana remainunaddressed. Forensic audits revealed no violations o f legalrequirements, but
project data and documentation didnot permit adequate performance evaluation o f efficacy and
cost-effectiveness. OED rates borrowerpevformancefor thisproject as satisfactory.


5.      Lessons and Recommendations

5.1     Governanceproblems and distrust are the binding constraints to improving the
investment climate and getting PSD going in Guyana.Unless realprogress is made on those
fronts -and donors needto recognize their very limitedcapacities to help inthose areas -
donor-drivenprojects can expect to continue to have low rates o freturn, andmay evenbe
harmful.

5.2     Every component of every donor project and everyproject process (such as consultations
on project design, the hiringo fconsultants, procurement o f goods, selection o ftrainees, and
choice o fregulatory options) should be assessed to seeing how theprojects andprocesses can
avoid deepeningdistrust, and ifpossible, serve to build trust across the racial divide.
Participatory approaches, as appliedinpreparation o f the PRSP, shouldbe applied inmonitoring
andevaluation o f allprojects, bothbydonors andclients.

5.3     More diagnostic work is needed to identifi strategies and tacticsfor rationalizing
incentives, building sustainable institutions, andfostering social capital. IfGuyana could build
its social capital, it would have no lack o f financial capital or humancapital. New studies are not
needed to undertake seriouspublic sector reforms, including civil service reforms, that have been
postponedfor a decade or more. These reforms are a necessary preconditionto effective capacity
buildingandthe sustainabilityof institutionsthat are currently overwhelmingly donor-dependent.

5.4     Closer donor coordination is needed to increase the eficiency and cost-effectiveness of
technical assistanceprojects aimed at institutional development. Having multiple cooks (donors)
inthe samekitchen(project component) preparingthe samemealsbutwithdifferent ingredients
andtastes is neither efficient nor cost-effective. While inpolicy-basedoperations there maybe a
case for some overlap, ininstitutional development TA projects there should be clearer division
of responsibility among donors to avoid duplicationandoverlap. Agreements should be sought on
"lead donor" andpooling arrangements reflecting donors' experiencein Guyanaand
comparative/competitive advantages.

5.5    Donors and GOGalike need to strengthen ongoing and ex-post monitoring and
evaluation of IDprojects to get prompt andtrue accounts not only o fprogress toward objectives

                                                21

but also o fthe quality, impact, andcost-effectiveness ofthe particularinstruments employed (in
TA projects these include consultant advice, consultant-prepared studies, andvarious types o f
training and equipment).

5.6    Donors need toface up to the labor market distortions and other downsidesfor the longer
run being caused by their hiring and salary supplementationpractices. Donor policies on salary
supplementation o fpublic servants (including consultants performing line positions in
government) needto be rationalizedand harmonized with a view to promotingrather than
postponingcivil service reform.


                                              23                                         Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
FINANCIAL SECTORAND BUSINESSENVIRONMENT (CREDIT 2669-0-
GUA)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                           Appraisal         Actual or             Actual as % of
                                            estimate      current estimate       appraisal estimate
 Total projectcost                         4,000,000         3,700,000                  97%


Project Dates
Signing                                        December 1994                   January 1995
Effectiveness                                   January 1995                     March 1995
Closingdate                                      June 1998                       June 1999

Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
                                    No. Staff weeks                       us$us$('ooo)
Preappraisal                             10.2                                  25.5
Appraisal                                 9.5                                  24.8
Negotiations                              I.8                                   5.5
Supervision                              61.O                                  120.4
Completion                                5.0                                   15.0
Total                                    87.5                                  191.2

MissionData
                Date   No.    Staff  Specializations    Perfor-   Rating            Typesof problems
               (month   of   days in   represented      mance      trend
               /year) persons field                     rating
Identification  3/94     3      5   Task                                  n.a.
                                    Mgmt/PSD/Finan
                                    cialnrade
Pre-appraisal   6/94     4      9   Task                                  Obtaining commitment from
                                    MgmffPSDIFinan                        government to a targeted, time-bound
                                    cialnrade                             privatizationprogram.
Appraisal       9/94     4      5   Task                                  Governmentinitialreluctance to
                                    Mgmt/PSD/Fin.an                       borsow technical assistancefunds
                                    cialRradelLegal                       alongsideadjustmentcredit.
Appraisal       11/94                                                     n.a.
through
Board
Approval
Board           3/95                                                      n.a.
Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision1    11/95   2           Task Mgmt./PSD/       1               (i) Governmentresistanceto hiring
                                                                          extemalconsultants; (ii)GOINVEST
                                                                          progress is slow.
Supervision 2   3/96    4           Task                  1               (ii)restructuringof GNCBhasbeen
                                    MgmtJFinance,                         too slow; (5)only modestprogress
                                    PSD, Tradenax                         achieved onprivatization: (iii)
                                                                                                       GO-
                                                                          Invest needsmore structure andbetter
                                                                          documentedprocedures.
Supervision 3   10/96   2           Task                  2               (i) managementatGNCBstill
                                                                             New
                                    MgmtlFinancial                        fails to makesignhcant progress; (ii)
                                                                          While entities havebeenbrought to
                                                                          pointof sale, very few havebeensold;
                                                                          (iii) ofGO-Investstillnotup
                                                                              activities
                                                                          to expectations


Supervision 4   4/97    2      7    Task                  S               (i)Restructuringof the New GNCB

                                                      24                                          Annex A


                Date      No.         Staff   Specializations   Perfor-  Rating              Typesof problems
               (month      of       days in    represented      mance     trend
               /year)  persons        field                      rating
                                             MgmtIFinancial                       still suffers from inadequate
                                             /PSD/Banking                         procedures andindependentloan
                                                                                  recoveryagency still not operations;
                                                                                   (ii)thirdyear privatization targetsstill
                                                                                  not complete; (iii)GO-Invest manuals
                                                                                  havenot yet beenproducedagency
                                                                                  needsto become more independent.
Supervision5    9/97       2            9    Task                  U        S      (i)Restructuring of the New GNCB
                                             MgmVFinancial/E                      requiresmuchmore strengthening in
                                             conomist                              the areaof credit policy andloan
                                                                                  recovery unitneeds substantiallymore
                                                                                  resources; (ii)whileprogress achieved
                                                                                   inprivatization, thereisstilla
                                                                                   substantialpipeline of enterprises.
Supervision6    4/98                         Task                  S        S
                                             MgmtJFinancial
Supervision7    10/95      4           12    Task                  S        S      (i)Restructuring of the New GNCB
                                             MgmtlFinancial                        continues to beproblematic.Financial
                                             FinancialAnalyst                      position not improving.
                                             Banking
                                             Specialists(2)
Supervision8    1/99       2            5   Task                   S        S      (i)Agreement reachedwith
                                             MgmtJFinancial,                       Government onhiringof experienced
                                             FinancialAnalyst                     internationalrestructuringand
                                                                                  management team for
Supervision9    7/99       4            6   Task                   S        S
                                            Mgmt./Finance/
                                            Banking/ Account
                                            ing

Other ProjectData
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                                               Credit no.       Amount               Board date
                                                                       (US$ million)
Financial& PrivateSector InstitutionalDevelopment       3290-GUA                                  1999
Cr.

                                                 25                                         Annex A


PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                      ADJUSTMENTCREDIT (CREDIT 2746-
GUA)

Key Project Data(amounts in US$million)
                                                 Appraisal            Actual or        Actual as % of
                                                 Estimate          current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total projectcost                                  56.3                  58.8                102


ProjectDates
                                                      Original                        Actual
Signing                                            January 1995                     June 1995
Effectiveness                                        March1995                       July 1995
Closingdate                                        December 1997                   December 1997


StaffhDUtS(staffweeks)
                                                                     Actual
                                               No. Staff weeks                    us$us$(ooo)
Preparationto Appraisal                              99                               397
Appraisalto Board                                    41                               165
Negotiationsthrough Board Approval                   29                               118
Supervision                                          42                               139
ComDletion                                           4                                11


Mission Data
                    Date      No.     Staff    Specializations        Performance Rating            Types of
                   (month
                   /year)  persons
                              of     days in
                                      field     represented      Implementation Development        problems
                                                                     Status        Objectives
Through Appraisal 4/93        4        10     TM, F, P, Econ                                   Delaysinpriori'
Through           5/93         1       10      F                                               actions: passage
Appraisal                                                                                      of trade and
Through Appraisal 7/93
Through Appraisal 10193       6         8     TM, F, P-3, T-2                                  financial
Through Appraisal 11/93       3I       10
                                        7     TM, T-2
                                              Environment                                      legislation
Appraisalthrough 1/94         6        21     TM, F, P-3, T, L                                 Delaysin
BoardApproval                                                                                  meeting
Appraisalthrough 9/94
Board Approval                3        11     TMIPMF-2                                         prenegotiation
                                                                                               privatization
                                                                                               targets
Supervision       11/95       3         6     TM/P,F,T                 S              S        Delaysinthird
Supervision       3/96        4         4     TM/P,F-2,T               S              S        tranche
Supervision       11/96       2         3     TMIP,F,T                 S              S        privatization
Supervision       4/97        2         3     TM/F,F                   S              S        Completion of
Supervision       9/97        2         9     TM/F,Econ                S              S        bank
                                                                                               restructuring
Completion        2/98        1        5      TM/F


Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                                 Credit no.       Amount          Board date
                                                                         (US$million)
SecondaryTowns InfrastructureDevelopment
PrivateSector Developmentand PublicSectorAdjustment

                                                26                                       Annex A


FINANCIALAND PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL                              DEVELOPMENT
 (CREDIT 3290-GUA)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                             Appraisal           Actual or         Actual as % of
                                              estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
 Total projectcost                              4.80                4.66                 97


ProjectDates
                                                    Original                        Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                     0611811999
Board approval                                                                    11/I611999
Effectiveness                                      I1130/1999                     12/09/1999
Closingdate                                        12/31/2002                     12/3112002


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                             Actual
                                       W Staff weeks                         ussuss(ooo)
IdentificationlPreDaration                 16.2                                  43.6
AppraisaWNegotiation                       34.4                                 103.1
Supervision                               60.4                                  181.1
Total                                     117.0                                 342.8

Mission Data
                           Date   No. of            Specializations               Performance Rating
                         (monthl  persons            represented             Implementation   Development
                          year)                                                Progress         Objectives
Identification1           I0198      3     TMlFinance (I), Finance(I),
Preparation                                PrivateSector (1)
Identification/            1/99      3     TMlFinance (I), Finance(I),
Preparation                                PrivateSector (I)
AppraisallNegotiations     7/99      4     TMlFinance (I), Finance(I), FMS         S                S
                                           (l)TM/F, Private Sector (1)
AppraisaVNegotiations      9/99      3     TMlFinance (l), PSD (I), Legal(1)       S                S
Supervision               312000     4     TM/Finance(*I),  Co-TM/Econ. (I),       S                S
                                           Procurement(I), FMS (I)
Supervision              11/2000     2     TMlFinance (I), Co-TMIEcon. (1)         S                S
Supervision               7/2001     2    TM/Finance(I), Co-TM/Econ. (I)           S                S
Supervision               2/2002    2     TMlFinance (I), Co-TMIEcon.(I)           S                S
Supervision               2/2003    2     TMlFinance (I), Co-TM/Econ.(1)           S                S
ICR                       2/2003     2     FinancialAnalyst (l),TM/Finance         S                S

                                        27                          Annex B


Annex B. IndividualsInterviewed

Governmentof Guyana andRelatedAgencies
Mr.CobyFrimpong, Office ofthePresident, Head, ExecutiveImplementationUnit
Mr.NeermalRekha, Secretaryto theTreasury, MinistryofFinance
Mr.WinstonJordan, Budget Advisor, MinistryofFinance                           \
Mr.LawrenceWilliams, BankingSupervision Manager, BankofGuyana
Mr.RamnarineLaal, Director, BankingSupervision Dept., BankofGuyana
Dr.GobindGanga, Director ofResearch, BankofGuyana
Mr.MauriceWilson, DeputyAuditor General
Mr.Deodat Sharma, DeputyAuditor General
Mr.WinstonBrassington, Head, PrivatizationUnit
Ms.RachelAndrade-Sankar, Snr SystemsAnalyst, MinistryofFinance        *

Mr.GeoffreyDaSilva, Head, GO-Invest
Mr.JohnFlanagan, former management team, GuyanaNationalCooperative Bank
Mr.Ashni Singh, Budget Director, MinistryofFinance
Ms.SonyaRoopnauth, Permanent Secretary, Ministryo fHealth(formerly MOF)
Mr.JonathanMiller, DFIDConsultant to MinistryofFinanceon
StockExchange/Securities Regulation
Mr.BrianJenkins, DFID Consultant to PrivatizationUnit

WorldBank
Dr.LuciaHanmer, Country Representative, World Bank
Mr.Daniel Wallace, Economist, World BankOffice
Mr.JamesDroop, former WorldBankRes. Rep.inGuyana
Ms.OrsaliaKalantzopoulos, CountryDirector
Mr.RajNallari, LeadEconomist
Mr.SanjiviRajasingham, Task Manager, PSDAC
Mr.John Pollner, Task Manager, PSDAC/FISBEC/FPID
Mr.NormanHicks, EconomicAdviser
Mr.MustaphaRouis, LeadEconomist
Ms. Jyoti Shukla, Sector Manager
Mr.MarkDorfinan, Task Manager, FISBEC
Mr.ChrisParel, Task Manager, PSTAC
Mr.Xavier Forneris, IFC/FIAS
Mr.FrankSader, IFC/FIAS
Mr.Amit Mukherjee, Senior Public Management Specialist, EASPR

Other Donors
Mr.EbrimaFaal, former IMFRes.Rep. inGuyana
Mr.GeorgeBindley-Taylor, IMF ResidentRepresentative
Mr.Mike Sarhan, MissionDirector, USAID
Mr.Winston Harlequin, ProgramManagement Specialist, USAID
Mr.JanSandSorensen, Representative, UNDP
Mr.RejeanHamel, Director, CIDA
Mr.VishalK a p ~ r , 3Secretary-Development, Canadian HighCommission
                      ~ ~
Ms.HelenaLaakso, OfficerinCharge, European Commission

                                        28                           Annex B


Mr.William Armstrong, Task Manager, IDBFinancialSectorProgram
Mr.Sergio Varas Olea, Representative, Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
Mr.Stuart Hughes, Power Sector Specialist, Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
Ms. Adrienne Pratt, IDB Country Division 6
Ms. DeniseDe Souza, Asst Resident Representative, UNDP (formerly MOF/GNCB)

Private Sector and Civil Society
Mr.DavidYankana, businessmanandformer Director, Private Sector Commission
Ms. Sheila Holder, Member ofParliament
Mr.Stanley Ming,ManagingDirector, MingProducts andServices
Mr.BalPersaud, ExecutiveDirector, Private Sector Commission
Mr.BryanJames, Chairman, Securities Commissionandformer Chairman, PSC
Dr.Clive Thomas, Director, InstituteofDevelopment Studies, Univ.ofGuyana

                                                                29                                                 Annex C


Annex C. Guyana at a Glance

                                      Guvana at a dance                                                              8/20/03

                                                                  Lath    L O W -
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                              hmbrlca  middle-
                                                      Guyana    L Carib. Income     Dowlopmentdiamond'
 2002
 mulabn. midyear CnwHianN                                0.17       527    2,411                 Life expectancy
 GNI percapta (Afk method, US$J                           840     3.280     1,390                       T
 GNI (AtlasmtM, USSMiom)                                 065      1,727    3,352
 A w a w annualgrowth,1996.02
 Populabn(%)                                              06        1.5       1 0
 Laborformf%)                                              1.5      2.2       1.2
 Most recentOrtinwte(iatert roarrvallablo, 1996.02)
 PwOrty(96dlrywlabbefcWn8bonalpOverlykVS)
 Urbanpopulation p45 d loYpqm&Uort)                        31        76       49
 Ufo~xpoctancyatbirth(parsl                                62        71       69                        I
 Wantmortality(per 1,000 livebHhifhs)                      52        27       30
Chlldmalnutrition (56 ofcf#dren under51                     12        9                  Access to impmb%dwater 80um
Parsas b a n improvej water                                94        86       a11i
 illtenleyph ofpopllaibnoge I&+)
                             SOUTW (% ofpqpublion)
                                                             1       11       13
Grossprharyenrollment @6clsohoaC8gepopu~~on)              120       130      111
    Male                                                            131      111
    Female                                                i122a
                                                           i        128      110
KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1882    1992      2001      2002
GDP (US$bYlions)                                 0.48    0.37      0.70     0.71
Gmssdomestic inveslmen#GDP                       25.0    42.3      21.9
Expcfbof goods wdservirsdGDP                     528    1286       94.9                               Trade
Gmso domesbc aavingsGOP                           7.1    16.9       5.6
GmssnalionalsavingsBDP                                   0.6        3.6
Currentacmunt telandGDp                         -29.3   37.6
Merest paymentsGDP                                4.5    11.a       2.5     15.2
Tot# deWGDP                                     207.2  521.1      200.4    205.6
Total debt soMmlexprb                            20.7    21.3       6.6     23.0
Presentvalue of debtloDP                                          126.3                                 I
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                      131.2
                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                     198892 199242      ZMn       2002   2 0 0 2 ~
(8vSragO WlJlUdorowlhl
GDP                                     -22       3.5     0.a
                                                          I.5       0.3
GDP per capita                          -1.7      3.0              -0.4
Expwtsof goods and setvim8               3.4      1.1     0 2


STRUCTUREoftho ECONOMY
                                                1962    1992      2001      1002
pS ofGDP)                                                                           Growthof innrsIrnentmdGDP(g             c
Agdwlture                                       23.4    40.8      31.3
Industry                                         29.0   29.0      28.3
   Manufacturing                                 14.3    14.3       8.2
Sewkm                                           47.1    30.2      40.4
Privatemmumption                                 66.6   60.2      69.0
Generalg o w n " t conwmptiin                   25.8    22.9      25.4
Importsof g a d s and sa~ims                     70.1  153.9      111.3

                                             iga2-92 i e w a      2001     2002
favarags -u&blrwnh)                                                                 Growth of exporis6nd mpOrlr (90         c
pgnwlture                                         0.8     3.1       3.4
Industry                                         -3.8    5.1        0.2
  Manufacturing                                  -8.1    5.2        2.5
S W V b                                          -0.4    3.7        1.o
Privatemnsmption                                 -5.4    4.9        4.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      7.1    7.9        4.4
Gmssdomestic investment                          3.1     -2.8      -1.9
hportsofgads and sewices                         2.9     0.8        2.0

NoC 2W2 dataarepreliminaryostimatss
Thistablewas pralucedfromtho DevelopmentEconornirs oental dabbase
'Thediarnondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecounty(inbold)"pared     with iblnmmegmupaverage lfdsta are misslnq he diamondMI
   be h p l e t e

                                                               30                                         Annex D


 Annex D. Governance Indicators

                                           Governance Indicators

 The figure below shows the significant deterioration inrecent years o f almost all the
 keygovernance indicators. (The bottombar for eachindicator refers to 1996 andthe
 top bar refers to 2002. The thinblack line on eachbar corresponds to the range at the
 90 percent confidence inter~al).~
                                                                 I                 I                4
           Voice and Accountability                                                                          I
                                             I                                                 I        111        I
                                             ____                I
                      Political Stability                           1           I



         Government Effectiveness


                  RegulatoryQuality                                                                       I
                       -
                                                                  I                          I
                                                                                             I            I
                                                                                                          I      I

                            Rule of Law                                                                   I
                                             I                   I                       II               I11


               Control of Corruption
                                             I 1                                                              I

                                                                 I                 I                      I
                                             I                                                                         1
                                            0                  25                 50                    75           100

                                                                     Comparison between2002,1996 (top-bottom order)
                                                         Country'sPercentileRank (0-100) in rankingsof 199 countries

     Source: D.Kaufmann, A. Kraay and M.Mastruzzi, 2003: Govemance Matters 111: Governance Indicators for 1996-2002
     (http://www.worldbank.org/wbi/governance/pubs/govmatters3.html)




7. The report, by Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzziprovides a more detailed accounting on these
indicators, including data for the intermediate years of 1998 and 2000 and charts showing Guyana's
ratings comparedto those of other countries inthe Caribbean and LatinAmerica.

                                                  31                    Annex D


                       RegulatoryQuality, CaribbeanRegion,2002

              Cayman Islands
                    Bermuda
                    Bahamas
                  PuartoRico
                    Barbados
                    MaWiue
               French Guiana
        AntiguaandDominica
                     Barbuda
         Trinidad andGrenada
                     Tobago

                     Jmaica
SI Vincentand lhe Grenadines
                    St Lucia
           St. KittsandBelize
                       Nevis

      REGIONALAVERAGE
                     Guyana
                    Sunname
                        Haiti
                       Cuba
                             b




                            Ruleof Law, CaribbeanRegion, 2002

            Cayman Islands
                   Barbados
                   Bahamas
                   Bermuda
                  Mattinque
                PuenoRico
       Antigua and Bararde
             FrenchGurens
                   Dominica
        SI Vincent andthe
       Tnnidad and Tob%go
         St Kitts end Nevis
                   st Lucla
                   G r e w
                     Belize
                REGIONAL
                  Sunname
                   Janaica
                    Gvvm
                      Cllba
                       Haiti

                            0        10   20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100


             Sourcc Ksufinannet al (2003)


                                            33                               Annex E


Annex E.Chronology
1953      Self government
1964      PNC andUF coalition take power, Forbes Bumhambecomes Prime Minister
1966      Fullindependence
1966-89   Period o f "cooperative socialism"; large enterprises, banks and media
          nationalized, price and exchange controls; almost all land retainedby the
          state by1988 government accounted for over 85% o f investment
1970      Guyana becomes a republic, pursues socialist path
1980      New constitution, Burnhamas president
1985      Bumham dies, Desmond Hoyte becomes President
1989      Economic Recovery Program, beginning o f transition from a socialist to a
          market economy
1990      IMFESAF ofSDR81.5 millionapproved
1990      TAC (C-2 169) approved
1992      Elections with international supervision, PPP comes into power, Cheddi
          Jaganbecomes President
1994      IMFPRGFESAFofSDR54millionapproved
1994      FISBEC(C2669) approved
1995      Financial Institutions Act PIA)passed
1995      Merger o f GAIBANK and GNCB)
1995      Implementation o f 2nd stage CARICOM CET rate, max tariff reducedfrom
          30 to 25%
1995      PSDAC (C2746) approved
1995      Guyanajoins WTO
1996      TAC (~2169)closed
1997      PSDAC (C2746) closed
1997      General election won byJanet Jagan, PNC disputes election results, violent
          street demonstrations follow
1997      HIPC decision point
1997      Cheddi Jagan dies, SamuelHindsbecomes President and Janet Jagan
          becomes P M
1997      Janet Jagan becomes President (Dec)
1998      Government declares state o f emergency inthe capital
1999      Appointment o f expatriate team GNCB
1999      Implementation o f final step inCETreduction from 25% to 20%
1999      GECprivatized
1999      Janet Jagan resigns, Bharrat Jagdeo (then Finance Minister) becomes
          President
1999      Completion point for HIPC o f $440 m(nominal) equivalent to $256 inNPV
1999      FPID(C3290) approved (Nov)
2000      Decision point for enhanced HIPC with floating completion point $329
          millioninNPV
2002      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Issued
2002      IMFPoverty Reductionand GrowthFacility (PRGF) for SDR 55 million
          (US$73million) approved.
2002      FPID(C3290 closed)
2003      GNCB privatized
2003      GPLreturnedto GOG controVownership
2003      Communique on new arrangements for limited shared govemance;
          Parliament reconvenes






