Report No. PID7603
PID7603.TXT
Project Name                     Guyana-Financial and Private Sector...
Institutional Development Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Financial / PSD
Project ID                       GYPE57272
Borrower                         Government of Guyana (GOG)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Contact: Hon. Bharrat Jagdeo,
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Main and Urquhart Streets
Georgetown, Guyana
Tel.: 592 2 56088
Fax: 592 2 61284
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 5, 1999
Date This PID Prepared           April 23, 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 31, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 17, 1999
1.      Background
Country and Policy Context
Guyana is a low-income country with 1997 per capita income estimated at
about US$720. It is thinly populated with about 0.78 million people, or 4
persons per square kilometer. Due to emigration, population growth in the
past two decades has been marginal. Most of the population and economic
activities are concentrated on the narrow coastal strip, which lies below sea
level at high tides and is protected by a series of sea walls. The interior
is largely forested and uninhabited, except for scattered communities of
Amerindians. It is well endowed with natural resources, with good
agricultural land and abundant rainfalls, diversified mineral deposits, and
large tropical forests. The economy is basically natural resource-based,
with agriculture (mainly sugar and rice) bauxite, gold, and timber accounting
for most of the output in the productive sectors. With the possible
exception of potential for hydroelectricity, which remains unexplored, the
country does not have energy resources and is dependent on oil imports to
meet most of its energy requirements.
Since 1988, Guyana has established a strong track record in
implementing macroeconomic stabilization and restructuring programs,
supported by IDA, the IMF and other external agencies. Before Guyana
embarked on this reform program, it faced declining investment, high
unemployment and negative growth. During that period, poverty became
widespread, the economic infrastructure dilapidated and the external debt



mounted. The economic reform programs that were initiated in late-1980s were
designed with the broad strategy to reorient economic management away from
the centralized administrative controls that impeded economic development in
the past decades and move towards achieving sustainable economic growth with
low inflation and external viability, including a lasting solution to
Guyana's external debt burden. Guyana has successfully implemented these
far-reaching economic reforms and has made significant progress towards the
achievement of the macroeconomic objectives and the economic restructuring.
Guyana's annual economic programs during 1995-97 were implemented with
determination and remained broadly on track (except for a weakening in public
finances in the last quarter of 1997, associated in large part with
political disturbances surrounding the December 1997 elections, and the
effects of the El Nito weather phenomenon). During this period, real GDP
growth averaged 6§ percent a year, and 12-month inflation declined from
16 percent in December 1994 to around 4 percent in December 1997.
In the area of structural reform, efforts in 1995-97 concentrated on
institutional building, increasing the role of the private sector, and
streamlining the public sector. Institutional reforms included the
establishment of a strengthened central bank supervision unit, a new
privatization unit, computerization of the Inland Revenue and Customs
Departments, strengthening of anti-smuggling measures, and the improvement of
the operational arrangements for the execution of the public sector
investment program (PSIP). In the financial sector, the Financial
Institutions Act (FIA) and other conforming legislation and regulations were
passed; the Exchange Control Act was repealed to complete the liberalization
of the exchange system; and a revised Act to strengthen the independence of
the central bank was presented to Parliament. In June 1997, a plan was
developed (in collaboration with IDB) to streamline the size of the public
sector including the civil service. During the latter half of 1997, steps
were taken to privatize the largest commercial bank (NBIC), begin the
privatization of the state-owned mining companies, and to establish a
regulatory framework for the state-owned sugar company (GUYSUCO).
The Bank's dialogue with the Government on IDA assistance strategy has
been through adjustment operations, annual PFPs, jointly prepared with the
IMF, and Policy notes. The focus of the IDA assistance strategy for Guyana
has evolved over the years. Initially, the main objective was managing the
post-devaluation adjustment simultaneously with macroeconomic stabilization
and liberalization of the economy. With half of the population estimated to
have incomes below the poverty line, and with the large devaluation adversely
impacting on the poorest, protection of the vulnerable groups through social
programs, such as the Social Impact Amelioration Program, were assigned the
highest priority. Later, the strategy aimed at sustainable economic growth
and diversification as one of the main pillars to reduce poverty with
particular emphasis on allowing the private sector to promote economic
activity under an organized regulatory framework.
The main objective of the current IDA assistance strategy is to support
the Government's efforts to achieve the above mentioned objectives, which
will crucially depend on the establishment and deepening of institutional
capacities and strengthening in key areas. This will involve: (a) continuing
to improve economic efficiency and encourage economic diversification,
including strengthening the role of private sector through privatization of
state entities (measured by the reduction of state owned assets in the
- 2-



economy) and development of the securities and insurance sectors; (b)
ensuring a sound financial system which will allow the government to develop
strategies for efficiently dealing with weak banks (measured by the reduction
in non- performing loans in the banking sector), (c) modernization and
improved service delivery in the public sector through the institutional
strengthening of key financial and operation related services such as
auditing, procurement, as well as support of year 2000 readiness for key
computerized functions and streamlining procedures to encourage foreign
investment.
2.      Description
The project has three major components to support regulatory and
institutional development. The three main areas are: (a) Financial Sector
Development; (b) Private Sector Development; and (c) Public Sector Business
Services.
(a) Financial Sector Development: This component will involve funding of
technical assistance expertise and informatics equipment to put in place a
procedural framework for handling banks with structural or short term
solvency and/or liquidity problems; implementing uniform financial accounting
reporting standards in the banking sector; updating the regulatory framework
to cover merchant banks, trust, foreign exchange traders, and other non-bank
institutions; restructuring and improving the financial condition of the
remaining state-owned bank including an assessment of privatization options;
and developing industry-specific regulations and directives to operationalize
the new legal framework and supervisory bodies in the insurance, mortgage and
securities sectors.
(b) Private Sector Development: This component will fund technical
assistance, training and equipment to support the second phase of the
privatization program to transfer approximately 13-14 additional state
enterprises to the private sector. Besides technical assistance to carry out
the financial, net worth valuation, and legal/contractual aspects of the
program, the component will also develop a framework for facilitating the
public offering of shares of such enterprises on the market. It will also
fund work to value the financial accounts of, and consolidate all the
remaining state enterprises into a common holding company to facilitate
future performance monitoring and readiness for privatization. The component
will also support the development of policies under the privatization program
to protect laborer's and small investor interests to ensure fair and socially
equitable treatment of such interests during the privatization process.
(c) Public Sector Business Services: This component will fund the development
of revised public procurement procedures and regulations to facilitate the
public bidding and contracting processes. It will also strengthen and update
the public sector's external auditing capacity to improve standards and
timeliness of audits undertaken for both multilateral investment project
credits and public institutions, and to implement procedures for delegating
and sub-contracting audit work to the private sector under the aegis of the
Auditor General's office. The component will also fund the modernization of
the public sector's payroll budget system to ensure full Y2K compliance and
allow continuity and efficacy in this key public sector management function.
In addition, the component will fund the development of a foreign investment
promotion framework to increase the entry of private capital into key
- 3-



economic sectors, and to develop appropriate procedural and economic
incentives for private investment.
3.      Objectives
The development objectives of the project are to support second
generation institutional development reforms aimed at consolidating the
measures taken under the previous structural adjustment and technical
assistance programs (SAC, PSDAC, FISBEC, & IMF ESAF). These objectives
include: (i) assistance in the transfer of major state-owned enterprises to
the private sector to promote an enterprise led economy; (ii) improving the
financial strength, risk management and capital adequacy of the banking
system through the restructuring and private management of state-owned
financial institutions, (iii) improving the regulatory framework for the
financial sector to support private sector activity and achieve synergies
among the banking, insurance, mortgage and securities sectors, and (iv)
supporting the modernization of the public sector through improved service
delivery in the areas of procurement, auditing, and public sector management,
in providing an enabling transactional environment for private sector
business.
The key performance indicators will include (a) the implementation of a
modernized financial sector regulatory framework resulting in the
operationalization of new regulatory bodies and evidence of improvement in
the financial performance of financial institutions in line with
international bank accounting and Basle prudential standards; (b) the
transfer to the private sector of a critical mass of state-owned enterprises
within the context of an enabling business environment for both industrial
and financial investors; and (c) the modernization of the public sector
auditing and procurement framework and implementation of Y2K compliant
systems for public sector management.
4. Financing
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 5.60 million. IDA would
finance $US 4.80 million of total costs, and the remainder would be financed
with Government counterpart funding.
Component                Category        Cost Incl.      of  IDA-      % of
Contingenc   Total financing Bank-
ies (US$M)          (US$M)    financing
Financial Sector         Development     1.50          27     1.30      87
Policy &
Institution
Building
Private Sector           Policy &        2.30         41       2.00       87
Development              Institution
Building
Public Sector            Policy &        1.80         32       1.50       83
Business                 Institution
Services                 Building
-4-



Total            5.60         100     4.80        86
5.      Implementation
The project will be managed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) where the
project unit will be housed. The individual sub-programs will be managed
from a technical perspective by the applicable executing units. For the
privatization and private sector development program, the Privatization Unit
(part of the MOF) will conduct the program and manage the specific technical
consultancies as required. For the financial sector component, in
particular, the improvement in banking regulation and supervision, the
central bank (Bank of Guyana - BOG) will undertake execution of such
component though the MOF project unit will handle procurement matters.. For
the public sector component, the Ministry will manage the execution via its
relevant units such as the Tender Board, as well as involvement of the
Auditor General office in the audit strengthening component.
The Ministry of Finance, however, will centralize project contract
processing, procurement, auditing, and disbursement arrangements, which will
be effected at the request of the technical implementation units. In the
case of the Privatization Unit and the Bank of Guyana, these arrangements
have already been tested under the FISBEC and determined to be adequate.
Some improvement in the organization of the project unit in the MOF, and its
processing and accounting capacity will be needed, however, to ensure that
reports on project progress, processing of contracts, and financial execution
are timely.
Auditing arrangements are currently being discussed with the MOF.
While the Auditor General traditionally, and by law, conducts the audits of
public sector programs including IDA projects, it also has the flexibility to
deploy private audit firms for this purpose. In order to improve the
financial management and accountability of the project unit, the project will
include a budget for the contracting or sub-contracting of a private auditing
firm, once agreed with the MOF and Auditor General's office. The Auditor
General would still approve said audit report, but this arrangement should
also result in more timely submission of project audits.
During project supervision, the IDA team would include the requisite
specialists to monitor the project implementation arrangements covering the
following areas: (a) progress in policy & institutional reforms under the
project's technical components, (b) coordination among the MOF with the
executing units, (c) project financial management, accounting, and auditing,
and (d) assessment of informatics adequacy (including Y2K provisions) for
project administration purposes.
6.      Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
Benefits: The key benefits of the program are directed to private
sector participants and industry entrepreneurs, to continue the process of
private sector expansion and the reduction of control by the state in key
economic activities (which in the past have also been a significant drain on
fiscal resources). The program is multi-faceted in that it continues the
privatization effort while reinforcing the safeguards of private ownership
- 5 -



through reform in the securities and insurance areas. To supplement the
private sector effort, reforms of specific public services are to be
undertaken have a responsive public sector delivery capacity to support the
requirements of the emerging business sector, including an enabling
environment relating to procurement, auditing, foreign investment, and
computerization of basic public sector management functions.
Sustainability: The project aims to provide consulting capacity which
will be structured into the business processes of the beneficiary entities,
so as to ensure eventual training and honing of staff in the implementation
of the subject reforms (i.e.: on-the-job technical assistance instead of
report writing). This will be particularly so in the case of the
improvements and implementation of the financial sector (banks and non-banks)
regulatory frameworks, as well as in the operations of asset/enterprise
valuation for the privatization unit. Nevertheless, the privatization unit
by definition will be a temporary administrative structure, thus once all
major public enterprises are privatized, it should cease to exist. In the
areas of the new Insurance and Securities Commissions, direct technical
assistance will be provided in setting up these new entities and working with
their staff and management to instill the requisite controls and procedures
(similar to the earlier T.A. provided to the Central Bank's Banking
Supervision Unit using on-site technical/management experts).
Risks: The risks identified involve (a) the continuation (or lack of)
of sound Government sectoral policies (political change risk), (b) the
absorptive capacity of private sector for public entities offered for sale,
(c) political and labor opposition to further privatization, and/or (d) lack
of incentives to improve public sector services. To mitigate these risks,
the project design has taken the following elements into consideration: (i)
ensuring a Government policy of public disclosure & stakeholder
participation, (ii) advertisement of entities at the domestic, regional, and
international level; and the preparation of draft sale agreements for prior
examination by investors, (iii) explicit incorporation of protection measures
and severance/ESOP/contract continuity options for workers, as part of
privatization deals, and (iv) early on implementation of a human resource
budget/payroll tracking system to allow costing and rationalizing of inputs
for key public services.
7.      Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations
For the successful privatization of public enterprises, all
stakeholders need to be taken into account, particularly workers in the
entities and small investors interested in contributing to the domestic
market. Thus, this project explicitly incorporates the development of
policies to both protect workers' interests in the transistion of ownership
of privatized entities, as well as financial market regulations which
adequately take into account and protect the interests of small investors
(including when these are the worker/employees of the privatized entities, as
in employee stock ownership participation - the latter will also be assisted
by the development of securities trading and disclosure regulations);
Successful private sector development also requires a responsive public
sector service, particularly in business transactions involving procurement,
auditing and other areas which have a direct bearing on the smooth
functioning of the business environment. This, along with establishment of a
- 6 -



more organized regulatory framework in the insurance and securities sectors,
will provide better synergies to assure a smoother transition to a private
sector led economy.
8.      Poverty Category
The project does not have a direct poverty reduction component.
However, it would mitigate the effect of labor displacements and unemployment
by building in contractual measures into the privatization process, to
diminish any social impacts from the transfer of ownership of public
enterprises to the private sector.
9.      Environmental and Social Aspects
As listed above, as part of the project design, the inclusion of
policies to protect workers affected by the privatization process (which
temporarily became a political issue during the offer for sale of the state
mining companies), will be a deliberate intervention supported by this
project, to assure that social impact considerations are taken into account.
In this regard, policies will be developed providing for options of (a)
severance packages, (b) contract continuity as part of privatization deal,
(c) employee stock ownership plans, and/or (d) retraining programs.
For environmental impact purposes, the project is rated as "C". The
project is strictly for technical assistance and no environmental impact of
significance is anticipated. As part of the privatization technical
assistance, the UK ODA/DFID Office in the Caribbean will be providing grant
funds to assure environmental auditing of public enterprises (e.g.: removal
of scrap metal, site clean-up prior to sale) as part of the pre-sale
valuation process
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 30, 1999.
The new regulations of the Financial Institutions Act have tightened the requirements for
the provisioning for bad and doubtful debts, raised capital adequacy standards,
established borrower limits, and improved reporting and disclosure to meet regional and
international standards.
-7-



