Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3290-GUA
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial & Private Sector Institutional Development Project)
between
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3290-GUA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 17, 1999, between CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“AG” means the Auditor General’s Office of the Borrower; 
Page  2
(b)
“BOG” means the Bank of Guyana, the Borrower’s Central Bank; 
(c)
“Bring to the Point of Sale” means the Borrower’s actions referred to in 
Part B.2 of the Project;  
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;  
(f)
“Eligible SOE” means each SOE (as hereinafter defined) selected by the 
Borrower for purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project; 
(g)
“Financial Institutions Act” means the Borrower’s Financial Institutions 
Act of 1995 dated March 20, 1995, as such Act has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(h)
“GNCB” means the Guyana National Cooperative Bank, a banking institution 
established under Chapter 75:01 of the Borrower’s Cooperative Financial Institutions 
Act No. 8 of 1976; 
(i)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association setting forth, inter alia, the Project indicators and the 
list of Eligible SOEs; 
(j)
“Insurance Act” means the Borrower’s Insurance Act No. 20 of 1998 dated 
December 31, 1998, as such Act has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(k)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(l)
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit established within MOF; 
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association and on behalf of the Borrower on April 27, 1999;  
(o)
“PU” means the Borrower’s privatization unit established within MOF;
(p)
“Securities Industry Act” means Borrower’s Securities Industry Act No. 21 
of 1998 dated December 31, 1998, as such Act has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(q)
“SOE” means a legal entity which is partially or wholly owned by the 
Borrower either directly or indirectly; and 
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,500,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 2010 and ending September 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08.  The currency of Dollars is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (a) Parts A.1 through A.3 of the Project, through MOF with the participation of  
BOG; (b) Parts A.4 through A.8 and C of the Project through MOF; and (c) Part B of the 
Project through MOF with the assistance of the PU, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, banking, insurance, 
securities, commercial, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the 
implementation of the Project the PIU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Association, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor 
and supervise the implementation of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05.  (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the 
implementation of the Project the PU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Association, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist the Borrower 
in the carrying out of Part B of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PU is at all times headed by a 
coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 3.06.  In the event that the environmental and/or social assessment of a 
particular Eligible SOE referred to in Part B.2 (a)(iii) of the Project recommends 
environmental and/or social mitigatory actions, the Borrower shall take, or cause to 
be taken, all such actions as required in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Page  5
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than forty five calendar days after the 
conclusion of each calendar year, starting in the year 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, not later than March 31 of each calendar 
year, starting in the year 2001, or such later date as the Association shall request, 
the corresponding report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  6
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to 
in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Financial Institutions Act, 
the Securities Industry Act and the Insurance Act or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner 
so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Association, the 
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.   
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been established by the Borrower as provided in 
Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement.  
Section 6.02.  The date February 15, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Main and Urquart Streets
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
3038
Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America , as of the day and year first 
above written.
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
By /s/ Odeen Ishmael 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equvalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   1,880,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods
     500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Operating
    220,000
85%
Costs
(4)
Refunding of
    590,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Prepara-
to Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    310,000
TOTAL
  3,500,000
2.
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental recurrent expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the Project, 
including: (i) office supplies, rental of office facilities, office utilities and 
communication expenses associated with the PIU and PU; and (ii) transportation and 
per-diem costs as approved by the Association. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contract for goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) Operating Costs as set forth in Category (3) of the table in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account for the Project, in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
Page  9
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Page  10
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Page  11
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $400,000.  
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the regulatory framework of 
the Borrower’s financial sector to promote private sector participation in such 
sector; (b) to promote private sector participation in the ownership, operation and 
management of Eligible SOEs; and (c) to modernize the public sector through the 
improvement of service delivery in the areas of procurement, auditing and management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financial Sector Development 
1.
Design of directives establishing the procedures to be followed by BOG in cases 
in which banks are not in compliance with the Financial Institutions Act.  
2. 
Design and issuance of regulations establishing standards for financial 
reporting to be followed by financial institutions under the supervision of BOG. 
3.
Design and issuance of regulations to the Financial Institutions Act with 
respect to the operation of investment banks, trust companies and financial 
intermediaries under the supervision of BOG.
4.
Design and issuance of regulations to the Securities Industry Act and Insurance 
Act with respect to: (a) the issuance of securities and the operation of securities 
brokers and dealers; and (b) the operation of insurance companies. 
5.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to establish regulatory 
agencies in the securities and insurance sectors. 
6.
Carrying out of the restructuring of GNCB to improve its organizational, 
operational and financial capacity. 
7.
Carrying out of a study to assess the possibility of promoting private sector 
participation in GNCB’s capital stock. 
8.
Acquisition and utilization of goods to assist the Borrower in the carrying out 
of Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project.
Part B:
Private Sector Development 
1.
Strengthening of the PU’s capacity to enable MOF to Bring to the Point of Sale 
the Eligible SOEs.
2.
Bring to the point of sale the Eligible SOEs by: (a) carrying out of: (i) an 
analysis of the legal, economic, financial and operational condition of each Eligible 
SOE; (ii) an audit and evaluation of the accounts of such Eligible SOE; (iii) if 
appropriate, an environmental and/or social assessment of such Eligible SOE; (b) 
deciding the structure of private sector participation in such Eligible SOE; (c) 
publishing the notice for either the sale of at least a controlling share of the 
capital stock of such Eligible SOE, for a long-term lease, for the contracting of 
services or for the concessioning of services of such Eligible SOE, as the case may 
be; and (d) issuing the prospectus or the tender documents related to the sale, the 
long-term lease, the contracting or the concessioning referred to in (c) herein. 
3.
Design of labor, environmental and small investor safeguards to be introduced by 
the Borrower in the contracts for the transfer of ownership or management, or for the 
contracting or concessioning of services of  Eligible SOEs, as the case may be.
Page  12
4.
Design and implementation of a legal and financial structure with respect to the 
ownership and financial management of SOEs. 
5.
Provision of technical assistance to MOF to restructure those SOEs which have 
not been selected as Eligible SOEs.
Part C:
Public Sector Business Services 
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the AG to carry out financial and operational 
audits. 
2.
Design and implementation of a computerized public sector payroll budget system 
that will not be susceptible to software or hardware problems potentially arising from 
the arrival of the year 2000. 
3.
Preparation of a bill of law on procurement of public sector contracts. 
4.
Establishment of a registry of national contractors. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $210,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the option 
of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Page  13
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ services under Parts B.2 and C.2 of the Project may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,110,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  14
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of  less than $100,000, the terms of reference of the 
consulting firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(e)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000, the terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
