Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11498
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEK REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEB          Communaute Electrique du Benin
ECG          Electricity Corporation of Ghana
ESB          Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
GOG          Government of Ghana
KV           kilovolt
kWh          kilowatt hour
LRMC         Long run marginal costs
MOE          Ministry of Energy
ODA          Overseas Development Authority
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPF          Project Preparation Facility of the World Bank Group
VALCO        Volta Aluminum Company
VRA          Volta River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ghana
Power System Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1628-GH)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Ghana - Power System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1628-GH) prepared by the
Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project achieved its physical objectives faster than anticipated
and reached some of its institutional goals through a twinning arrangement
between ECG and the Electricity Board of Ireland.   ECG's  staff and its
receivables were reduced by two thirds. While, at completion, ECG's autonomy,
institutional capability, and tariffs were still unsatisfactory, two follow-on
projects  address  these  issues.    Consequently,  the  project  is  rated  as
satisfactory and its sustainability as likely.
The Project Completion Report is informative. The project will be
audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............................................................     ii
Evaluation Summary  ...................................................   iii
Part  L  Project Review From the Bank's Perspective ............................  1
1. Project Identity.                                                                      1
2. Background.                                                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                   4
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                       5
5. Project Implementation.                                                                6
6. Project Results .7
7. Project Sustainability .12
8. IDA Performance .13
9. Borrower Performance .13
10. Project Relationships .13
11. Consulting Services .13
12. Project Documentation and Data .13
Part II. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective ........................  15
Part IIL  Statistical Information . ............................................  19
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits in the Power Subsector .....              .........  19
2. Project Timetable ............................................... 20
3. Credit Disbursements . ............................................  21
4. Project Implementation  ................             .........................  22
5. Project Cost and Financing .............            ..........................  23
6. Project Results ................................................  24
7. Status of Covenants ............................................. 26
8. Use of IDA Resources . .......................................... 28
Annex 1         ECG - Audited Income Statement and Balance
Sheet, 1984-1990 .......... 30
Annex 2         VRA - Audited Income Statement and Balance
Sheet, 1984-1990 .32
Annex 3    Cost and Benefit Stream - Rate of Return.                                                       34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power System Rehabilitation
Project in Ghana for which Credit 1628-GH in the amount of SDR 27.0 million equivalent was
approved on September 19, 1985. The Credit became effective on February 14, 1986 and closed
on June 30, 1991 as originally scheduled. SDR 26.9 million equivalent was disbursed and SDR
745.53 was cancelled. The last disbursement was made on October 30, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division, Country
Department IV of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's
Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.        The Project was designed to restore reliable electric service by overcoming the most
serious operating problems owing to inadequate system maintenance to Ghana's electric power
network since the late 1970s. These operating problems include system overloads with
concomitant energy losses and voltage reduction and curtailment of service because of frequent
outages of old thermal generating equipment. As IDA had not succeeded in introducing
institutional and organizational reforms in its past lending to ECG, this Project (the seventh
operation in the sector) was seen also as a means to strengthen ECG's institutional capacity to
reliably deliver electricity services at reduced costs. The Project was consistent with the Bank's
efforts to prepare the sector for future development and enhance its ability to fulfill its strategic
role in the economic growth of Ghana and its neighbors.
2.        The Project consisted mainly of rehabilitation works to ECG's distnbution network
and limited work on VRA's principal substations; provision for improvements to general plant;
technical assistance for operational support, training, work planning, and the preparation and
implementation of the rehabilitation plan of ECG; and studies on the organization of the power
sector, tariffs, the efficiency of the Akosombo hydro plant, expansion of the distribution system,
and extension of facilities to the north.
Project Implementation
3.        The Project became effective on February 14, 1986 and closed on June 30, 1991, as
originally scheduled. SDR26.9 million was disbursed and a nominal SDR746 was canceled.
4.        The staff of ECG and VRA, local contractors and consultants satisfactorily carried
out the system rehabilitation work for ECG and VRA. ECG benefited from the twinning
arrangement with the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB) (a decision taken during project
implementation) and the assistance provided under this arrangement for its system rehabilitation
work and organization, management, personnel, training, and operations requirements. Despite
ESB's efforts to assist ECG with its revenue management function, IDA felt the need to provide
intensive supervision efforts to try to put ECG's financial performance on track. ECG is still
experiencing problems in this area. In addition, studies funded out of the Project were conducted
effectively and provided a vehicle for dialogue with the Government on issues including the sector
organizational set-up, tariffs, and future expansion of the distribution and generation systems.
5.        Compliance with loan covenants was satisfactory with the exception of conditions
relating to the reduction in the level of ECG's receivables and its outstanding account with VRA.



- iii -
Targets had to be revised under the ECG Fifth Power Project (Cr. 2061-GH). Following the
completion of the tariff study, satisfactory agreement was reached between IDA and the
Government (under the ECG Fifth Power Project) on financial objectives for the power sector
and on the minimum rate of return on annually revalued net fixed assets in operation.
6.         The Bank's guidelines for the procurement of equipment and hiring of consultants
were followed by the Borrower. Following the clearance of initial problems relating to the
delivery of materials and effecting payment to suppliers, the rehabilitation work on existing
systems was generally accomplished ahead of schedule. The rehabilitation of the Tema diesel
plant, a major part of VRA's component, was cancelled from the Project following the provision
of grant funds from the Overseas Development Authority for this purpose. The construction of
housing units for ECG's senior staff was delayed because of procurement problems and carried
over for implementation under the ECG Power V Project. Funds originally allocated for the
rehabilitation of the Tema diesel plant and the construction of houses for senior staff were
reallocated to other Project components including additional rehabilitation work. Following these
changes, ECG became the main beneficiary of the Project.
Project Results
7.         The principal objectives of the Project were met with more success for the
rehabilitation component for ECG's distribution network system than for the technical assistance
component for operational support to ECG.
8.         ECG benefited widely as a result of the Project. With the provision of foreign
exchange and technical expertise brought about by the twinning arrangement with ESB, the
rehabilitation on its system resulted in improvements in the quality of electric service. In addition,
ECG's organizational structure was revised providing a basis for its medium-term development
and performance improvement objectives. ECG recruited key personnel to upgrade the skills mix
of its staff and, using its own resources, implemented a staff redundancy program. In 1990, its
total work force was reduced to 3,106 from 4,648 in 1986. Training facilities were completed in
Tema and ECG is now in a better position to develop comprehensive staff development and
training programs. Also, 189 vehicles were added to its transport fleet; provisions were also made
for spare parts. On its financial performance, its customer receivables were brought down from
15.5 months in 1986 to 6.7 months in 1990. Its debt service coverage ratio was satisfactory
following the December 1988 capital structuring. Compared to 1986 its arrears position has
improved although it is still experiencing problems in meeting its debt obligations. ECG's
accounting and budgeting system has improved and ECG can now better comply with its audit
requirements. However, ECG has not been able to sustain some of these improvements and is
now experiencing major problems with its revenue management function. It has not been able
to achieve the agreed 8% rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation nor meet its
receivables target. As a result, under the ECG Fifth Power Project, new targets on returns and
receivables were set and ECG's financial recovery was included as part of the institutional
development program.
9.         Also, a Cross Debt Clearing House System was established and provides a useful
means to settle inter-public enterprise indebtedness in the power sector.
10.       As for VRA, the anti-corrosive painting of steel structures and equipment at the
Akosombo Power House proceeded smoothly.



- iv -
11.       Findings from the studies on the organization of the power sector, tariffs and the
distribution and generation expansion plans served as a vehicle for dialogue with the Government
on policy issues and the investment program of the sector. After completion of the tariff study,
satisfactory agreement was reached with the Government on financial objectives for the power
sector and on a minimum rate of return on annual revalued net fixed assets of ECG and VRA.
However, electricity prices still have not made it possible for ECG to meet its financial covenants
nor do they reflect its long run marginal cost (LRMC) of the supply. Support for institutional
arrangements for tariff setting and ongoing expansion plans in the country were provided under
the ECG Fifth and VRA Sixth Power Projects.
12.       The return on investment estimated at appraisal was 30% using the existing tariffs
as a measure of benefits. It was discovered, however, that the cost of purchased power was
omitted in the calculations resulting in an underestimation of the costs and a high rate of return.
Adjustments were made to the assumptions made at appraisal and benefits were measured based
on revenues from the incremental sales of electricity after the project using the average tariff in
effect. This gave a negative return on the project because the average tariff ($0.03 per kWh) was
insufficient to cover the LRMC of the bulk supply of power ($0.044 per kWh). Assuming the
consumers' willingness to pay at $0.06 per kWh (as compared to $0.14 per kWh estimated and
used to justify a subsequent project, the Northern Grid Extension Project, Cr. 1759-GH) in lieu
of the average tariff, the project yielded an internal rate of return of 33.5% (Annex 3). This
compares favorably with the opportunity cost of capital for Ghana estimated at 10% and
illustrates the need for a tariff policy that reflects the LRMC of power.
Sustainabilitv
13.       The sustainability of the project depends greatly on the power utilities' capacity to
manage those factors that determine their financial and operational equilibrium, in particular,
carrying out an appropriate tariff policy, a better handling of their financial position, and
developing its human resources. Much work remains to be done and efforts to sustain progress
for ECG and VRA are currently being made within the framework of the ECG Fifth and the
VRA Sixth Power Projects.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.       The physical work under this Project (the overhaul of the 33kV and 11kV systems
of ECG and anti-corrosive treatment of the VRA Akosombo Powerhouse) was completed
satisfactorily. On the technical assistance side, although the twinning arrangement between ECG
and ESB was relatively successful, much still needs to be done in institutional strengthening of
ECG.
15.       One of the basic reasons for ECG's continuing institutional weakness, particularly
its financial condition, is the delayed response of the Government in increasing tariffs. There
were some improvements in ECG's commercial operations but not enough. Also, collections
continue to remain a serious problem. Lessons learned from the project under review are similar
to those experienced in power utility projects implemented in other developing countries. Unless
the Government allows adequate autonomy to ECG and a reasonable tariff regime is put in place,
it is not possible for an electric power utility to become self sustaining. Without autonomy the
utility is not able to offer competitive salaries and, therefore, becomes a training ground for young
technical professionals who later leave for better paying jobs. Without a core of competent and



- v -
motivated staff no organization can build systems that are essential to institutional building. An
interesting comparison is seen in this Project where VRA operates as a fairly well run
independent utility because it has been provided the required autonomy while ECG, because it
lacks this autonomy, has not been able to put in place satisfactory management, operational and
financial systems.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
Part I - Project Review From the Bank's Perspective
1.   Project Identity
Project Name:   Power System Rehabilitation Project
Credit No. :    1628-GH
RVP Unit :    Africa Region
Country   :    Republic of Ghana
Sector    :    Energy
Subsector:    Power
2.   Background
Energy Sector
2.1       At appraisal in 1985, Ghana had substantial energy resources. Wood was plentiful
in the high forest zone covering 34% of the total land area (8.2 million hectares). Hydropower
resources were ample, particularly in the Central and Western regions of the country; the
economically useable potential was estimated at 2,000 MW, then about twice the installed
capacity. Estimates of proven reserves of oil varied from 1 to 5 million barrels though the
potential was considered to be larger. Drilling in the Tano basin seemed to confirm the existence
of large quantities of oil and natural gas. There were no known coal, lignite or peat deposits.
2.2       Energy demand of 4.2 million toe per year, or 360 kg per capita was relatively low
in comparison with other African countries. Domestic output of energy, consisting primarily of
wood and, to a lesser extent, hydropower and petroleum, was estimated at 3.6 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe) and covered nearly 86% of Ghana's energy requirements. Wood met about 73%
of primary energy demand, petroleum 17% and hydropower 10%. Sectorally, energy demand was
estimated to be by residents (urban and rural), over 67%; industry and commerce, 15%; transport,
12%; and agriculture, less than 6%. Energy consumption increased by almost 5% p.a. during
1971-79 despite the economic decline during most of the 1970s, decreased by about 20% between
1980 and 1984 because the scarcity of foreign exchange limited the import of petroleum products,
and declined further by 33% during this same period because of the severe drought and
breakdowns in electrical distribution systems.
2.3       Forest-based products were a source of cooking fuel for more than 95% of
households and also provided the energy requirements for activities such as food processing, post-
harvest drying and beverage making. Total wood demand by 1990 was estimated to be around
17 million cu.m. of fuelwood and 7 million cu.m. of commercial forestry cut. Although projections
of the forest resource balance through 1990 showed an annual allowable cut of about 23 million
cu.m. indicating Ghana was not likely to face a forest depletion problem over the next decade,
there were serious prospects of regional fuelwood scarcity in some areas, particularly the extreme
northeast. A large amount of research work in the renewable energy field was carried out by
Ghanaian institutions with the assistance of IDA and other public and private aid agencies and
coordinated by a renewable energy unit of the National Energy Board.



2.4        At appraisal, Ghana was producing petroleum at about 650 barrels per day from the
Saltpond field, about 15 km offshore and 100 km west of Accra. This represented about 5% of 1984
domestic consumption of about 0.6 million metric tons; the remaining 95% was imported. Although
not a petroleum intensive economy by international standards (50 kg per capita in 1984), Ghana's
heavy dependence on imported petroleum for commercial energy strained its foreign exchange
position. Petroleum import claims on the country's total export earnings increased from 19 % in 1979
to about 40% in 1984 despite controls on petroleum consumption by the Government because of
rising international oil prices and declining export revenues. By 1990 oil imports were down to about
23% of exports.
Energy Sector Organizations
2.5        The principal responsibility for the energy sector lies with the Ministry of Fuel and
Power, recently renamed the Ministry of Energy (MOE). Government entities in the petroleum
sector include the Geological Survey Department, which monitors petroleum exploration; the Ghana
Italian Petroleum Company Limited, which operates the refinery; the Ghana Oil Company Limited,
which distributes petroleum products; the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, which has
responsibility for exploration, development, production and disposal of petroleum, and procurement
of crude and petroleum products; and the National Energy Board, the advisory body to the MOE,
which until it was dissolved recently, was responsible for gathering statistical data on energy
resources, production, transformation and consumption, for developing energy policies, conducting
energy studies, and coordinating activities in the renewable energy field.
Power Sub-sector
2.6       In 1983, only about 10% of the total population of about 12.5 million had access to
electricity, of which Accra, Tema, Takoradi, Kumasi and Cape Coast accounted for 70% of the total
number of consumers and the remainder spread over other urban areas. Per capita electricity
consumption reached a high of 110 kWh in 1981 (excluding sales to the Volta Aluminum Company
(VALCO) and exports to other countries) compared with 217 kWh in Cote d'Ivoire and 124 kWh in
Senegal. Sector sales grew steadily at an annual rate of 6.3% between 1970 and 1977 but slowed
down to an annual pace of 5% over the period 1977 to 1981 as economic activity declined. As
virtually all of the power supply in Ghana is hydro-based, following the drought which started in
1981, sales dropped by 33.4% from 5,650 GWh in 1981 to 2,650 GWh in 1983. In 1984 VRA
restricted supply to the domestic market to 1,000 GWh and its exports to 300 GWh.
Organization of the Power Sub-sector
2.7        The MOE is responsible for establishing and supervising implementation of overall
policies of the power sub-sector. The Volta River Authority (VRA) sells locally and exports bulk
electricity and owns and operates the hydro plants and high voltage transmission facilities. The
Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG) purchases power from VRA for distribution throughout the
country and owns and operates diesel plants supplying isolated systems.
2.8        VRA was established in 1961 to construct and operate the Akosombo hydro-plant on the
Volta River, which was the first hydroelectric project in Ghana (parly financed by the Bank, Loan
310-GH, February 1962). In addition to Akosombo, VRA owns the Kpong hydroplant and the 161
kV grid in Ghana with extensions to Togo and Cote d'Ivoire. VRA is a modern, relatively well
operated public utility with a high degree of autonomy, and is responsible for hydropower generation



- 3 -
and power exports to Togo-Benin and Cote d'Ivoire, bulk power supplies to ECG, the VALCO
smelter at Tema, gold and diamond mines and the Akosombo textiles and township. VRA is also
charged with developing the Volta Lake which involves lake research and transport.
2.9        VRA is governed by a Board which is appointed by the Head of State, who is Chairman
ex-officio. The Board is composed of a Chairman and seven other members, including its Chief
Executive, the Managing Directors of ECG and VALCO, and a VRA staff representative. As of
December 1984, VRA had about 2,500 employees of which about 95% were engaged in electricity
services. It was able to build up and retain capable staff because of its financial and managerial
independence and relatively good working conditions in spite of low salaries. It developed its own
training center and received financial assistance on concessional terms from CIDA (Canada) to
finance equipment and expatriate instructors for its training center. Its financial and accounting
systems were good although the respective departments were understaffed.
2.10       ECG was established in 1967 to succeed the Electricity Division of the Ministry of
Works and Housing. At appraisal, it was responsible for the distribution of electricity throughout
Ghana and for the country's diesel power plants and operations of the Government's rural
electrification works. Over five years prior to appraisal of the Project, ECG could not discharge its
responsibilities satisfactorily due to ineffective management and lack of foreign exchange to purchase
spare parts and equipment. The quality of its service was poor and characterized by interrupted and
intermittent supply and the inability to provide for new connections and for system reinforcement to
maintain voltage levels.
2.11       At the end of 1979 ECG had 6,200 employees. At year end 1984 this declined to 4,800
employees. During this time, ECG was overstaffed at the lower levels and staffed by unqualified and
untrained personnel at all levels. Fifty percent of its management and professional positions were
vacant and incumbents of other positions appeared unsuitable for the positions they held. ECG had
problems recruiting and retaining suitably qualified staff because of image problems and inadequate
compensation for its employees. At appraisal, ECG was building its own training center at Tema but
had been experiencing completion problems. Also, staff training abroad had been curtailed due to
cuts in bilateral aid and foreign exchange problems resulting in a backlog of training needs for
managers, engineers and accountants. Unlike VRA, ECG's financial management was almost non-
existent and its accounting system needed redesign. Information was sparse and unreliable.
Power Facilities
2.12       The total installed generating capacity in Ghana was about 1,130 MW of which 1,072
MW (95%) was hydroelectric. The remainder comprised diesel units installed in 28 stations varying
in size from 51 kW to 30 MW. Hydro capacity was installed in two stations on the Volta River, the
Akosombo plant (912 MW) commnissioned in the mid-1960s and the Kpong plant (160 MW)
commissioned in 1982, both owned by VRA. In 1985, these plants were in good condition and well
maintained although efficiency for the Akosombo plant had fallen.
2.13       The VRA 161 kV transmission system totals over 1,300 km with a further 800 km under
construction to improve supply in northern Ghana. Eight circuits of 67 km each connect the
Akosombo and Kpong plants to the Volta Aluminum Company (VALCO) smelter at Tema and other
industrial loads while a 650 km transmission loop supplies ECG areas and mines in southern Ghana.
A 161 kV double circuit line provides an interconnection with Communaute Electrique du Benin
(CEB) and connects Akosombo to Lome (Togo). Cote d'Ivoire was interconnected in 1983 through



-4 -
a 225 kV transmission line.
2.14       ECG's distribution facilities comprise 33 kV and 11 kV lines and underground cables
with 33/11/0.4 kV substations feeding power from VRA's transmission system or ECG's diesel
plants. ECG distributes power in the main cities of Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi and
in other urban centers located within the interconnected grid which covers the southern part of Ghana.
ECG also operates a number of isolated stations on behalf of the Government, which subsidizes the
operation of these facilities. Service within the distribution system deteriorated over the years due
largely to poor maintenance and inadequate reinforcement of the distribution system.
Development Objectives
2.15       The Government's investment plans for the energy sector during the period 1985-1990
were concentrated in power and petroleum. Proposals for investments in the power sector were
mainly for rehabilitation of existing facilities, extension of the high voltage grid and additions in
thermal generating capacity to complement the operation of the hydro plants. In the petroleum sector
investment plans included the rehabilitation of the Tema refinery and petroleum product distribution
network. Investments in petroleum exploration and development were left largely for the private
sector.
2.16       The principal objective of IDA in the power sector in Ghana was to improve the
reliability, reduce the cost of electric power supplies and support economic grid extensions while at
the same time reducing the demands imposed by the sector on Government resources and maintaining
the sector's export capability. The Bank's past lending helped Ghana achieve some of these
objectives, and by assisting VRA, helped build one of the better managed utilities in West Africa.
However, the Bank had not succeeded in introducing institutional and organizational reforms in ECG,
which would have helped improve reliability and reduce costs. This Project was designed to deal
with the reorganization, institutional, and physical rehabilitation of the sector's facilities to prepare
the sector for future development and enhance its capacity to fulfill its strategic role in the economic
growth of Ghana and its neighbors.
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.1        The principal objective of the project was to restore reliable electric service by
overcoming the most serious operating problems in the coastal grid and various isolated systems
owing to inadequate system maintenance since the late 1970s. These operating problems include
system overloads with concomitant energy losses and voltage reduction and curtailment of service
because of frequent outages of old thermal generating equipment. The project consisted mainly of
rehabilitation works to ECG's distribution network and VRA's principal substations in addition to
provisions for improvements in general plant and technical assistance for studies and training of
qualified managers and staff.
3.2         The project components included the following:
A.   ECG
(a)  Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the distribution network;
(b)  provision of technical assistance for operational support, training, work planning, and



- 5 -
preparation and implementation of a detailed rehabilitation plan;
(c)  Construction of housing for senior staff and improvement and expansion of the general
plant through the acquisition of approximately 100 new motor vehicles, spare parts for
existing vehicles, and office equipment;
B.   VRA
(a)  Anti-corrosive painting of all exposed metal parts of the Akosombo hydro plant;
(b)  Rehabilitation of the diesel power generation plant at Tema;
(c)   General improvements and renovation of miscellaneous electrical apparatus in the
following substations: Kpong, Tafo and Akwatia (Akosombo area); Winneba, Achimota
and Smelter (Volta area); Cape Coast, Takoradi, Tarkwa and Prestea (Takoradi area);
and Obuasi, Dunkwa, Kumasi, Konongo and Nkawkaw (Kumasi area).
C.   Studies
3.3        Studies on the improvement in efficiency of the Akosombo hydro plant, distribution
expansion plan, market surveys and economic analyses of the high voltage line extensions to the
northwest and northern parts of Ghana, detailed and updated economic analyses of the proposed
generation expansion plan and detailed engineering studies for the next power plant, tariffs, sectoral
analysis and reorganization, and sectoral legislation, particularly with respect to proposals for
reorganization of the sector.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project, designed to support the objectives described above, was timely, appropriate
and formulated in the context of a least-cost solution to the development plan. The Project was
initially prepared during 1981 but was postponed because of the coup d'etat at the end of that year.
Following the change in government and reappraisal of the project, IDA and the Government agreed
on a two-front approach to tackle the sector's problems: first, support for the reorganization and
institutional rehabilitation of the sector; and, second, the physical rehabilitation of the sector's
facilities to improve service and consolidate finances thereby preparing the utilities for future
development.
4.2         Lessons learned from previous IDA power operations in Ghana, i.e., to fully utilize the
capacity of existing facilities rather than investing in extensions of such systems particularly in light
of uncertain growth prospects, were incorporated in the project design.
4.3        Project preparation was thorough. Key issues to successful project formulation and
implementation including the merits of merging ECG and VRA, the managerial autonomy of the
utilities, the classification of ECG as an A grade corporation so that it could adequately compensate
its staff and attract and retain qualified and experienced staff, the reduction of ECG's manpower,
tariff increases, and future investments, among others, were discussed and actions agreed prior to
Board presentation and credit effectiveness.
4.4        The roles and responsibilities of the beneficiary utilities and the consultants responsible



- 6 -
for different components of the Project were clearly defined and understood making it possible for
most of the rehabilitation work to be completed ahead of schedule.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1        The Project became effective on February 14, 1986 and was closed on June 30, 1991,
as scheduled. Of the original amnount of SDR27.0 million, SDR26.9 million was disbursed and a
nominal SDR746 was canceled; the last disbursement was made on October 31, 1991.
5.2        System rehabilitation work for ECG and VRA was carried out satisfactorily by the staff
of the power utilities, local contractors and consultants. Under the technical assistance component,
the Electricity Supply Board (ESB) of Ireland successfully conducted studies and made
recommendations on the sector organization, management and legislation, drew up and assisted in
the implementation of a least-cost rehabilitation program, conducted a study and developed system
protection procedures, and provided operational support to ECG. A twinning arrangement agreed
between ECG and ESB helped ECG successfully meet some of its objectives under this Project.
Studies funded out of the Project were carried out effectively and are discussed in paras. 6.19 to 6.23
below.
5.3        Compliance with major loan conditions was satisfactory with the exception of conditions
relating to the reduction in the level of ECG receivables and its account with VRA. Despite increased
tariffs and persistent follow through by IDA staff and consultants, ECG's financial management
remains poor. ECG's financial recovery is a part of the institutional assistance component of the
ongoing ECG Power V Project (Credit 2061-GH).
5.4        Delays in Project implementation were experienced in the appointment of the consultants
to carry out the tariff study and in the appointment of a managing director and a director of finance
for ECG. There were also delays in the delivery of materials and in effecting payment to suppliers
because of delays in port clearances, inspection by the Society of General Superintendents processing
in the banks in Ghana in setting up letters of credit and effective operations of the special account,
and unfamiliarity with Bank disbursement procedures. Once cleared, implementation proceeded
satisfactorily.
5.5        Following agreements reached by GOG, VRA and ECG on the transfer of the Tema
diesel plant from ECG to VRA effective January 1, 1987 and the provision of Overseas Development
Authority (ODA) grant funds for the rehabilitation of this plant, funds for this purpose were
reallocated to ECG rehabilitation work. This change made ECG the main beneficiary of this Project.
5.6         ECG decided to use the allocation for housing to fund additional distribution system
rehabilitation work. This decision was based on the urgency of the rehabilitation work and the fact
that the housing project had experienced delays brought about by lengthy internal procurement
procedures and the lack of understanding of IDA's procurement guidelines. It was also expected that
financing for the housing component could be obtained from cedi resources.
5.7        Supervision missions identified the need for better stores and materials management and
security of warehouses. In response, new systems covering materials management were developed
together with ESB and implemented. Also, the need for closer supervision of sub-projects, keener
attention to quality control of its concrete and wooden poles, and the definition and communication
of standards for wooden poles utilized throughout the system were pointed out by supervision



missions. Standards were subsequently prepared by the consultants for ECG's use.
5.8        During appraisal, no major risks were associated with the Project.  Concern was
expressed about the financial health of the sector and VRA's ability to supply VALCO and utilities
of neighboring countries, which was dependent on a replenished Volta Lake. The rains in 1985 were
good and VRA has been in a better position to protect the domestic market against power restrictions
because of the flexibility offered by a renegotiated contract with VALCO. However, risks associated
with institutional and management weaknesses and tariffs that are below the cost of power supply
were not identified and have been the major reasons for the continuing poor financial performance
of ECG. Attention to ECG's problems in these areas is being provided under the ECG Power V
Project.
6.    Project Results
6.1        Overall, the objectives of the Project were achieved with greater success for the system
physical work for ECG and VRA than the technical assistance component for institutional support for
ECG.
ECG
System Rehabilitation
6.2        Following the least cost rehabilitation program developed by ESB and ECG, the system
rehabilitation program began in 1987 and was completed in 1990. The distribution network
rehabilitation work included the injection of new substations and the upgrading of low voltage
networks, replacement of old distribution pillars, dilapidated ring main units, cracked poles,
rehabilitation of the BBC switchgears for high and low voltage equipment, reinforcement of the 11
kV network in Accra and Cape Coast, addition of small (11/0.4 kV) substations, upgrade of
undersized LV lines, replacement of dilapidated switchgear and distribution boards, and construction
of 110 circuit km of LV and 45 circuit km of 11 kV networks.
6.3        Sub-transmission rehabilitation work included the refurbishment or replacement of the
switchgears in all the 55 33kV/ 1 1kV and bulk supply point substations. Obsolete 33 kV and 11 kV
switchgears in substations in Accra, Tema, Eastern, Ashanti, Western and Central regions were
replaced and 33 kV substations in Accra, Tema, Western and Ashanti regions were refurbished.
Reconstruction of the Accra-Nsawam and Kpong-Okwenya 33 kV lines were completed; total route
length was 30 km.
Organization and Management
6.4        Technical assistance provided by ESB was beneficial to ECG. ESB conducted a
diagnostic study of ECG's organization, management, operations and personnel needs.  The
organizational structure was revised and following the reorganization reforms were made and
provided a satisfactory basis for ECG's medium-term development and performance improvement
objectives. ESB provided a technical assistance team, comprising a Managing Director, Project
Manager and Director of Operations in executive roles, supported by other ESB staff on shorter
assignments, to help implement these reforms. Following the completion of the technical assistance
team's assignment, qualified and experienced Ghanaians were appointed and now occupy the positions
of Managing Director, Directors of Administration, Engineering, Finance, Operations and Internal



- 8 -
Audit. In addition, a number of short-term ESB consultants assisted ECG in various operational and
functional areas. Training and familiarization courses were also provided by ESB in Dublin for ECG
Directors and newly recruited finance staff.
6.5        During project implementation, it was recognized that ECG needed a comprehensive
technical assistance program using a utility twinning arrangement. This was necessary to ensure
support was available on a continuous basis to help resolve problems, establish systems and
procedures, and expose ECG staff, through secondment, to a sound operating environment. As the
technical assistance provided by ESB was beneficial to ECG and resulted in the development of
cordial relationships between the utilities, this twinning arrangement was established. However,
despite ECG and ESB working together since 1983 and substantial improvements in the engineering
and project supervision areas since then, ECG continues to exhibit weaknesses in management,
operational and financial areas. A review of ESB's terms of reference and training procedures under
the ongoing ECG Power V project would lead to the identification of ineffective processes and the
adoption of more useful methods to correct these problems.
6.6        To develop successfully as a commercial entity, ECG recognized the need to upgrade
the skills mix of its staff through better recruitment and training policies. The Corporation prepared
a manpower plan as part of its corporate plan (1988-92) and identified a shortage of 110 skilled staff
in key accounting, commercial and engineering areas. Recruitment of key personnel was carried out
in 1989 and 1990. In addition, ECG introduced an incentive program which included bonuses,
housing and training benefits to improve its image as an employer and its ability to recruit and retain
good quality staff. Because of the assistance received under the Project, ECG is now in a better
position to develop comprehensive staff development and training programs following the
development by ESB of a training plan, the completion of training facilities in Tema, the staffing of
senior positions in the training center and the provision of additional training for its instructors in
Ireland by ESB.
6.7        Recognizing that it had a surplus of lower skilled staff, ECG implemented a staff
redundancy program (using its own resources) to reduce the surplus and to fully compensate and
assist affected staff in seeking alternative employment. The total force in 1990 stood at 3,106, a
reduction from 4,807 in 1985. Under the ECG Power V Project, ECG should further reduce its
work force to 2,840 by 1992.
6.8        Outside the corporate headquarters, ECG was organized into seven regions, each headed
by a Regional Director who is responsible to the Director of Operations at headquarters. The new
regional organization was initially implemented in Tema and based on experience obtained there was
progressively extended to other regions. Key regional personnel were appointed with emphasis
placed on improving maintenance practices and revenue collection.
6.9        While a sound start has been made, continued organizational reform focussing on the
commercialization of ECG is supported under the ECG Power V Project and includes, among others,
the completion of the management reorganization started under this Project, the establishment of
performance contracts that monitor five key areas of operations (sales/revenues, collections,
manpower reductions, quality of supply and physical project implementation), staff development and
training programs and a staff redundancy program.



-9 -
Financial Performance
6.10       ECG was required to ensure that its revenues were sufficient to produce a reasonable
return on the "fair value" of its assets, having regard to the need to service its debt and contribute
to expanding and improving its services. In the absence of a "fair value" (by end-1986 the book
value of ECG's gross fixed assets was a mere US$2 million equivalent), it was agreed under this
project that ECG's fixed assets would be revalued. This was done satisfactorily and the results
incorporated in ECG's 1987 accounts. It was also agreed that ECG should contribute 25% to its
investment program, have debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times, pay off its arrears to VRA, and
reduce progressivley the level of its customers receivables. ECG met some of these obligations but
improvements were not sustained over the years. Major Cedi devaluations had a serious impact on
the cost of electricity supplied by VRA and on ECG's debt servicing obligations which were not fully
compensated for in retail tariff increases.
6.11       ECG was also seriously undercapitalized. With heavy losses in prior years, at the end
of 1986 its total equity was negative. In 1988 its capital was restructured and included the following
salient features: conversion of half of ECG's indebtedness to VRA in respect of power sales to
additional Government equity to ECG; refund at monthly installments of the balance of ECG's
indebtedness to VRA into a Government Rural Electrification Fund; conversion of the Ghana Water
and Sewerage Corporation's (GWSC) indebtedness to ECG into long term receivables to ECG
repayable at monthly installments; and conversion of part of the outstanding Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with the GOG into Government equity, part into a special Government loan, and the
balance repaid in accordance with the original loan agreement.
6.12       ECG's customer receivables remained at an excessively high level for several years.
By end 1986 they were equivalent to 15.5 months current billings. Improved collection efforts in
1987 and 1988 reduced receivables to an average of 9 months. Of the total outstanding (CZ7.6 billion)
at end 1988, 12.8 billion due from GOG and GWSC was dealt with under the capital restructuring,
leaving a balance due mainly from the private sector of C4.8 billion. As a result of more detailed
investigation of the state of customer accounts ECG identified a very substantial amount of doubtful
debts, resulting from past inaccurate billings and the age of many debts. Consequently, ECG
included in its accounts a provision for bad and doubtful debts equivalent to 50% of the balance of
customer receivables. Also, to prevent a recurrence of the problem of public sector mutual-
indebtedness in the power sector, GOG established with effect from January 1989 a Cross Debt
Clearing House System to settle on a monthly basis current mutual obligations of ECG, VRA,
GWSC, and GOG in respect of electricity and water bills and utility servicing of Government debt.
6.13       Following years of neglect, ECG's revenue management function - meter installation
and reading, billing, collection and recovery procedures - continues to require strengthening both at
the head office and in the regions. Escalating receivables exacerbated the situation to a point where
ECG is still unable to meet its obligations to Government and to VRA and its ability to finance the
local component of its investment program is jeopardized. New targets for receivables had to be set
under the ECG Power V Project.
6.14       A comparison of ECG's appraisal estimate and its actual financial performance are found
in Part III, Project Results (No. 6). Annex 1 provides ECG's audited financial statements for 1985-
1990.



- 10 -
6.15       ECG's management understands its current financial problems and is making efforts to
improve its position. As much remains to be done to turn ECG into a financially viable entity, the
ECG Power V Project was designed with financial recovery as a part of the ongoing institutional
development program.
Accounting and Auditing
6.16       Prior to improvements made under the Project, ECG's accounting and budgeting systems
were poor because of lack of discipline brought about by problems of recruiting and retaining
qualified staff. This resulted in delays in preparing and sending audited accounts to IDA and the
submission of reports which were heavily qualified by ECG's auditors, Coopers and Lybrand, Accra.
With ESB's assistance, new accounting and budgeting systems have been installed, qualified staff
have been recruited to strengthen its accounting and internal audit activities, financial controls have
improved, and management information and submission of accounts are more timely than before and
meet acceptable standards.
Housing and Vehicles
6.17       Funds for the housing project were reallocated to complete urgent rehabilitation work
on the distribution system. IDA and ECG agreed to do this because the housing work experienced
considerable delays as a result of lengthy internal procurement procedures and the lack of
understanding of IDA procurement guidelines. It was also felt that financing for housing could be
obtained from cedi resources. The allocation for vehicles increased ECG's transport fleet by 189
vehicles and provided spare parts for other vehicles in the pool.
VRA
6.18       The painting of the Akosombo plant proceeded smoothly after problems of paint
application on steel structures and equipment were resolved. As rehabilitation of the diesel power
generation plant at Tema, originally planned under this Project, was funded by an ODA grant,
resources were reallocated to ECG for other Project components including urgent rehabilitation work
initially not included in this Project.
6.19       VRA's compliance with the legal covenants on its financial performance, particularly
relating to its overdue bills for service to ECG, its debt service coverage ratio, and the revaluation
of its assets was satisfactory. A comparison of VRA's appraisal estimates and its actual financial
performance are found in Part III, Project Results (No. 6). Annex 2 gives VRA's audited financial
statements for 1985-1990.
Studies
Sectoral Organization
6.20       To improve the performance of the power sector, funds from the Project Preparation
Facility were allocated to finance a study to determine the merits of merging VRA and ECG. The
study was conducted by ESB in 1985. They concluded that a merger of VRA and ECG offered the
best prospect for the future development of the sector. However, GOG, with the concurrence of
IDA, considered that a merger would have strained VRA's capabilities since ECG's position was
extremely weak financially and managerially and required major reforms and external assistance to



- 11 -
establish it as a sound public utility. Consequently, the merger did not proceed but was retained as
one of several sector organization options to be considered in light of ECG's performance in the next
few years.
Tariffs
6.21       In an attempt to put the sector on a sound financial footing, a tariff study of the power
sector was conducted by consultants selected by GOG, Coopers and Lybrand (UK). The objective
was to develop tariffs which reflect the economic, i.e. long run marginal costs (LRMC) of supply,
are affordable to its domestic consumers, generate sufficient revenue to ensure financial viability and
are easy to administer. The consultants identified serious problems of affordability in applying
LRMC tariffs to many residential customers and recommended phasing-in full LRMC over 25 years.
Following agreement reached between GOG and IDA on the study's recommendations, a uniform
national tariff structure, based on LRMC principles, was introduced.  The level of tariffs
recommended by the consultants was substantially adopted in 1988 following reviews by MFP, ECG
and VRA and approximated to about 75% of LRMC. At this time, GOG allowed ECG to increase
its tariffs to meet its established target rate of return of at least 8% on currently valued net fixed
assets in operation to ensure the financial viability of the country's hydro system. With ECG's
average sales revenue lower than projected, reflecting some customer resistance to the large tariff
increase, ECG was unable to meet this target. Given the absence of institutional arrangements that
support a proper process of setting and maintaining tariffs, current Government procedures and legal
arrangements do not yield electricity prices which enable ECG to meet its financial covenants nor do
they reflect the long run marginal cost of electricity. As for VRA, it has achieved a 9% return on
net fixed assets since 1988.
Akosombo Hydro Plant
6.22       Reliability of the present Akosombo units has deteriorated in recent years and studies
conducted under the Project confirmed that VRA had to undertake a major retrofitting of the 25-year
old Akosombo hydroplant by the early 1990s to avoid the risk of major breakdowns. The
rehabilitationlretrofit of existing facilities were incorporated in VRA's investment program and
supported by IDA under the VRA Power VI Project (Credit 2109-GH).
Distribution Expansion Plan and Extension to the Northwest and Northern Regions
6.23       A system expansion study was undertaken by ESB and served as the basis for the
sector's development program. VRA undertook an extension of the 161 kV system from Kumasi
through Brong Ahafo to the northern region to interconnect with Burkina Faso, to the upper east
region and to Wa, the upper west region's capital under the Northern Grid Extension Project (Credit
1759-GH) and the VRA Power VI Project. Further studies on the expansion of electricity supplies
to all parts of the country were undertaken through the National Electrification Planning Study funded
under the VRA Power VI Project.
Generation Expansion Plan
6.24       System planning studies were carried out and recommendations were made that VRA
invest in additional thermal generating facilities to firm up and complement hydro energy to meet
future load. The expansion program, based on average hydrological conditions, called for 400 MW
combustion turbines to be commissioned in four phases through 2006. Under this program, the first
phase of 100 MW combustion turbines would be commissioned by 1992 to meet expected demand
through 1995 and a second thermal increment of 100 MW would be added by 1996 to enable VRA



- 12 -
to meet expected demand through the year 2000. Owing to unexpected above average rainfall in
1989 (the second highest since the dam was built), by the end of 1989 the Akosombo reservoir was
almost full. This led to the decision (made under the VRA Power VI Project) to delay the
commissioning of the first 100 MW phase of the thermal complementation by at least two years from
1992 to 1994.
Return on Investment
6.25       The goals of the Project to halt the declining condition of the supply system and make
the electrical facilities more reliable to render effective support to the economic recovery of the
country was met and the delivery of electric service has improved. Distribution losses remained high
due to technical and non-technical reasons including system overload, poor maintenance, and illegal
consumption.
6.26       The return on investment estimated at appraisal was 30% using the existing tariffs as
a measure of benefits. Upon closer examination of the annex to the appraisal report providing
information on the basis of this calculation, it was discovered that the cost of purchased power was
omitted resulting in an underestimation of the costs and a high rate of return. Adjustments were
made to the assumptions made at appraisal and benefits were measured based on revenues from the
incremental sales of electricity after the project using 1986 sales as the base and the average tariff in
effect. This rendered a negative return on the project because the average tariff ($0.03 per kWh) was
insufficient to cover the LRMC of the bulk supply of power ($0.044 per kWh). However, assuming
the consumers' willingness to pay at $0.06 per kWh (as compared to $0.14 per kWh estimated and
used to justify a subsequent project, the Northern Grid Extension Project, Cr. 1759-GH) in lieu of
the average tariff, the project yielded an internal rate of return of 33.5% (Annex 3). This compares
favorably with the opportunity cost of capital for Ghana estimated at 10% and illustrates the need for
a tariff policy that reflects the LRMC of power.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Despite many constructive measures undertaken through this Project and improvements
in ECG's operations, ECG still experiences corporate efficiency problems including a long backlog
of customers awaiting connection, illegal connections and theft of electricity, long lags in billings and
collections and frequent service interruptions due to system overload or poorly maintained equipment.
These problems are caused mainly by tariffs that are insufficient to cover the cost of service,
inadequate system and personnel management techniques, and bureaucractic operating procedures.
7.2        The obvious risk of sustainability is ineffective management of the power utilities due
to internal weaknesses and excessive dependency on government. The lack of autonomy of ECG
from Government limits their ability to generate sufficient revenue and pursue a profitable operation
because tariff adjustments and payments for electricity are delayed by the Government and other
public sector agencies.
7.3        IDA, in addition to providing assistance to enhance the reliability and add new capacity
to existing power systems in Ghana, should explore together with the Government and the utilities
options that will bring about reforms leading to the commercialization and improvement of the
incentive structure of ECG and proper definition of the roles between the Government and the
utilities.



- 13 -
8. IDA Performance
8.1        Overall IDA's performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle. Together with
ECG, VRA and the Government, it correctly identified the power sector requirements, properly
appraised and designed the Project, provided assistance in defining the terms of reference for the
rehabilitation work, institutional support, and studies, and closely monitored project execution. An
average of three supervision missions a year went to Ghana during the early years of project
implementation. From 1988, yearly supervision missions were conducted together with field work
for other projects in the power sector in Ghana. This effort led to timely identification of problems
and solutions linked to the reorganization of the power sector, tariffs, the organization and
management of ECG, and the programming and selection of investments. The dialogue and rapport
between the Ghanaian officials, consultants, and IDA staff was constructive.
8.2        It is important that country economic dialogue and power lending operations address the
issue of autonomy for ECG. Independence from the Government would allow it to better adopt
policies necessary to implement recommendations for improving management and operating systems,
which together with an effective approval process for tariff adjustments will ensure sustainability of
the institution and attract and retain highly qualified and skilled staff.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1        ECG and VRA were the beneficiaries and implementing agencies for the Government
on this Project. Following the resolution of problems causing initial delays in project execution, they
implemented their component in accordance with the covenants set forth in the Development Credit
and Project Agreements. VRA and ECG effectively managed the resources provided for the
rehabilitation work and for technical assistance for operational support and the studies.
10.  Proiect Relationships
10.1       IDA's relationship with Government, ECG and VRA on the project was good.
Adequate liaison and communications were established under previous operations and maintained
under the Project. Coordination with contributing agencies, donors, and consultants was good.
11.  Consulting Services
11.1       Overall, the performance of the consultants for the rehabilitation work and technical
assistance component was satisfactory. The assistance provided by ESB to ECG was constructive
resulting in the creation of a twinning arrangement between these two utilities. Since this relationship
was established in 1983, ECG has shown substantial improvements in the engineering and project
supervision areas but still requires assistance to improve its management, operational and financial
performance. A review of ESB's terms of reference and training and transfer of technology
procedures under the ongoing ECG Power V Project would lead to the identification of process
weaknesses and the adoption of more useful methods to correct these problems.
12.  Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The Development Credit and Project Agreements were adequate for achieving project
objectives. IDA's Staff Appraisal Report also provided a useful framework for the Bank and the
Borrower during project implementation although it did not provide any description of the scope of



- 14 -
work for the studies. IDA supervision and back-to-office reports and the appraisal reports of
suucceeding power projects were readily available and provided relevant information for the
preparation of the PCR.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
Part II. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
1.0  Summary of Implementation Results
1.1       The credit 1628-GH was divided between the Power Sector Ministry, The Volta
River Authority and the Electricity Corporation of Ghana, which received the greatest share.
2.0 ECG Component
2.1       The implementation results for each component of the credit are briefly summarized
in the following paragraph:
(a)  Engineering
The rehabilitation of ECG's distribution power system accounted for 45% of the
credit funds.  The funds available were inadequate to cover the complete
rehabilitation of the system and as a result were directed towards the total
rehabilitation/replacement of the 33kV and 11kV systems with the balance of
available funds being utilized to effect improvement in the worst affected portions
of the low voltage system.
The overhaul of the 33kV and 11kV systems was remarkably successful with a
dramatic improvement in system reliability being achieved in the period 1987 - 1989.
The main elements of this programme involved:-
-    Replacement of obsolete 33kV and 11kV switchgear on the system.
-    Overhaul of all remaining 33kV and 11kV switchgear.
-    Repair and reinstatement of 33 kV underground cable faults.
-    Reconstruction of all 33kV overhead lines which had collapsed due to theft
of tower component members and storm damage.
-    Reinforcing of the 11kV systems in the urban areas.
The effect of this programme was a reduction in widespread fault outages. In
association with this programme all protection equipment was checked and repaired.
All updated protection coordination schemes were implemented.
At the distribution level approximately 300 distribution rehabilitation jobs were



- 16 -
undertaken involving the commissioning of distribution substations and construction
of LV networks.
The effect of these jobs was naturally selective to the areas involved and was
insufficient to cover the full extent of the rehabilitation work required at this level.
(b)  Vehicles
A total of 3m US Dollars was spent on the acquisition of approximately 200 new
vehicles which more than trebled the Corporation's fleet. In addition to new
vehicles, a three year quota of spares was also acquired which contributed to the
high reliability and availability of the fleet.
(c)  Office Equipment
This programme was directed at redressing the problem of the lack of basic office
equipment requirements such as typewriters, photocopiers, cash registers, drawing
office equipment, safes etc. rather than towards a modernization of office systems.
For the limited expenditure in this area, which also included an upgrade of the
mainframe computer, the improvement was remarkable.
(d)  Training
The most significant step forward in the training area was the establishment, staffing
and equipping of a full-time training facility in Tema.
In addition to ongoing upskilling courses being conducted, the training school is now
conducting a formal apprenticeship training programme for Electricians, linesmen,
cable jointers and electrical fitters. This will lead to the gradual improvement of
performance at artisan level in ECG over the coming years.
(e)  Civil Works
The civil works programme which covered the construction of 10 nos. senior staff
bungalows in Accra was deferred to a future project and now as part of the Power
Five Project is nearing completion.
3.0   Performance of the World Bank Personnel
3.1        The World Bank showed great interest in the Project at all stages and through a
number of missions encouraged and supported the Project.
3.2        The response time to queries and requests was always speedy and of a supportive
nature.
3.3        There were a number of changes in Bank personnel throughout the project and
though the replacements in each case displayed equal enthusiasm there was sometimes a change
of emphasis or priorities.



- 17 -
4.0   Summary of Borrowers Perspective of the Project
4.1        The Project was first conceived in 1980 and the feasibility study of the extent of power
system rehabilitation necessary was carried out in that year. However, due to a number
of historical factors project implementation did not commence until 1986. the results
of the 1980 feasibility study were by that time out of date and in spite of the urgency
on all sides to get the Project started, a new feasibility study should have been carried
out in 1986.
The effect of this was that the original ICB tenders offered were small compared to
requirements despite a large availability of unallocated funds in the credit.
In summary the gap between the preparation of the feasibility study and project
implementation was too great.
4.2        The Rehabilitation Project had a dramatic effect on the performance of the power
system in Ghana. However it was known that the 1628-GH funded Project was only
the first stage of the overall rehabilitation of ECG's distribution system. In these
circumstances the follow-on Power Five Project should have been ready to start on
completion of the subject project.  As the situation developed with the initial
Rehabilitation Project being completed in early 1990 and the following Power Five
Project construction commencing in early 1992, the power system has been allowed to
stagnate and deteriorate.
This had a serious effect on public opinion and as a result on revenue collection
programmes.
In the case of future follow-on projects it is essential that the gap between completion
on one and start-up of the next is minimized.
4.3        Procurement procedures worked well during the Project. As expected few suppliers
were prepared to operate open accounts with the Electricity Corporation necessitating
the extensive use of letters of credit. This was expensive and time consuming and it is
suggested that up to a certain level of transaction procurement procedures should be
examined to establish World Bank guarantee procedures to enable open accounts to be
operated. This system would allow speedier and cheaper procurement procedures to be
established.
4.4        The statutory requirement in Ghana for SGS inspection to be carried out on all
deliveries caused considerable delays in the Project and this was not adequately allowed
for in programming activities.
4.5         The establishment of a separate organization in ECG to manage the Rehabilitation
Project was a major success in achieving higher levels of performance expected from
ECG crews.
There was considerable disquiet among staff and unions over the proposed use of local
and foreign contractors on the Project. Following agreement on targets with ECG it
was agreed that the use of contractors would be restricted as long as the targets were



- 18 -
achieved but in areas where delays were becoming evident the use of contractors would
be extended.
This system worked well.
4.6        The Central Stores of ECG were in a poor state both physically and organizationally.
There was concerns about trying to put the Central Stores back into effective operation
and at the same time try to manages the rehabilitation materials. For this reason a
completely separate rehabilitation stores was established in Tema which worked so
effectively that it is now to become the Central Stores.
5.0        VRA Componen
Under the credit 1628-GH, VRA was allocated an amount of SDR 2.01lm (US$2.1m)
in 1985 to finance the foreign cost of the project. This portion of the Credit 1628-GH
was utilized in procuring anti-corrosive paint and thinner as well as painting of the
underlisted equipment and structures located at the Akosombo Powerhouse.
-    Power Transformers                                (6 No.)
-    Gantry Cranes                           -          (2 No.)
-    Spillway Gates                          -          (12 No.)
-    Intake Gates                            -          (7 No.)
-    Penstocks                              -           (6 No.)
-    Trashracks                             -           (6 No.)
-    Generator Hatch Covers                 -           (6 No.)
-    Spillway Hoist Cabinets                -           (2 No.)
-    Draft Tube and Spillway Stoplogs       -           (8 No.)
The anti-corrosive paints and thinner were purchased from GECAD of United States
whilst the painting works was contracted to Sadelmi of Italy.
The project commenced in July 1987 and was completed in April 1990. The breakdown
of the total project cost of US$2,142,178.78 on completion was as follows:
-    Paints and Thinner (Purchases)         -           US$ 501,986.14
-    Paint Application                                  US$,640,192.64
At the of completion, the initial allocation of the Credit 1628-GH was equivalent to
US$2,618,400.00 due to the variance in the exchange rate of the dollar to SDR.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
Part Ill. Statistical Information
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits in the Power Subsector
Project Title/                                              Year of
Credit No.                        Purpose                 Approval  Status
Volta River Authority (Ln.   Development of the power sector.      1961       Completed
0310-GH)
Power Distribution (Cr. 0118-   Expansion  of  ECG's  distribution   1968     Completed
GH)                          system.
Volta River Authority Electric   Development of the power sector.  1969       Completed
Power (Ln. 0618)
Second Power Distribution (Cr   Expansion  of  ECG's  distribution   1971     Completed
0256-GH)                     system.
Volta River Authority Kpong   To add  160 MW  to the system's   1977          Completed
Hydroelectric (Ln. 1380-GH)    installed capacity; extend the network to
tie in Kpong with the VRA grid; extend
power lines to the southwest; reinforce
and expand capacity between Tema and
Accra; provide additional reactive
power compensation for the system's
161 kV grid; and assist in the
resettlement of 7,000 residents of the
reservoir area.
Electricity  Corporation  of   Development of the distribution system    1977  Completed
Ghana (Ln. 1381-GH)          through  the  provision  of  new
subtransmission lines, new substations,
expansion of existing substations, and
improvement  of  the  distribution
network,  particularly  in  Tema;
rehabilitation   of  the  existing
transmission and distribution system;
replacement and expansion of the
vehicle fleet; engineering services for
ECG; and a power sector study
focussing on a tariff structure to reflect
the marginal cost of power.



- 20 -
Project Title                                              Year of
Credit No.                        Purpose                 Approval   Status
Northern  Grid  Extension   To provide a reliable and economical   1987      Ongoing.
Project (Cr. 1759-GH)        electricity supply by reinforcing the
southern  grid,  by  extending  the
transmission system to economically
important northern areas of the country
and by reinforcing and expanding
distribution facilities in these areas.
Electricity  Corporation  of   To  help  establish  ECG   as  a   1989       Ongoing.
Ghana Power V Project (Cr.   commercially-oriented entity, capable of
206 1-GH)                    delivering a reliable and economic
supply of electricity to its customers and
also to assist the Government to develop
a comprehensive sector development
strategy and long-term electrification
program.
Volta River Authority Power   To maintain the high standard of   1990        Ongoing
VI Project (Cr. 2109-GH)     reliability of the country's electricity
supply; meet projected domestic and
export dernand through the year 1995
including an interconnection with
Burkina Faso; and implement its
ongoing  program   of  institutional
development.
2. Project Timetable
Item                    Planned           Revised            Actual
Identification                                                     09/80
Preparation                                                        03/81, 04/83
Appraisal Mission             06/81                                05/83, 11/84
Credit Negotiations           12/81              09/83             08/85
Board Approval                02/82              11/83             09/85
Credit Signature                                                    10/85
Credit Effectiveness                             1984              02/86
Credit Closing                                                     06/91
Credit Completion                                                   12/90
Issues Raised at Each Stage of the Project Cycle
Preparation:
March 1981: delayed tariff increases; ECG's uncertain financial situation and lack of foreign



- 21 -
exchange; ECG's inability to retain trained staff
April 1983: organization of the power sector and the merger of the two utilities, ECG and
VRA; sector financial rate of return; tariffs; foreign exchange resources for ECG; ECG's
financial position; foreign exchange reserves of VRA.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$m)
Fiscal Year End             198    1987    198      1989     1990   1991
Appraisal Estimate           3.9   12.1    19.4    24.5      27.2   28.0
Actual                        1.6   12.2    22.0    31.0    34.1   34.9
Actual as % of Estimate      41    101      113     127      125    125
Cancelled amount:            $1,008.93 (SDR745.53)
Date of final disbursement:  October 30, 1991



- 22 -
4. Project Implementation
Action                Appraisal Estimate                     Actual
GOG
Based on sector legislation studies    Dec. 31, 1985.    Complied
start implementation of measures
for reorganization of power sector
Settlement of overdue public sector    Dec. 31, 1986.    Resolved  as  part  of  ECG   capital
bills; other bills settled within 60                     restructuring and clearing system under Fifth
days of billing date.                                    Power Project, August 1988.
Annual review of VRA and ECG       Starting   Jan.  1,   Satisfactorily complied.
rates to ensure higher rates or    1986.
minimum 25 % contribution to
investment.
After completion of tariff study,    June 30, 1986.      Satisfactory agreement under ECG Power V
agreement on financial objectives                        Project with  Government on  financial
and earnings for VRA and ECG;                            objectives for power sector and on minimum
adopt criteria and schedule for                          rate of return on annually revalued net fixed
adjustment rates.                                        assets in operation.
ECG
Revalue fixed assets.              After tariff studies   Satisfactorily completed in 1987.
are completed.
Public sector overdue bills settled    Dec. 31, 1986.    Improved position. Targets revised under
by Dec. 31, 1986 and other bills    Dec. 31, 1987        ECG Power V Project.
settled within 60 days from the
billing date; receivables other than
from the Borrower and parastatals
enterprises outstanding no more
than 120 days by Dec. 31, 1986
and no more than 90 days from
Dec. 31, 1986 and thereafter.
Debt service coverage minimum                            Satisfactory  following  December  1988
1.5 times.                                               capital structuring.
VRA
Annual revaluation of fixed assets                       Satisfactory.
and debt service coverage minimum
1.5 times.
Overdue bills for service to ECG   Dec. 31, 1986         Satisfactory
settled by 12-31-86, and other bills
settled within 60 days of billing
date.



- 23 -
5. Proiect Cost and Financing
A. Proiect Cost (USSm)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local      Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign        Total
Item                        Costs       Costs      Costs      Costs     Costs         Costs
(USS million)                   (USS million)
ECG
Rehabilitation:
Generation a/                     0.3        2.5        2.8       0.0          0.0           0.0
Distribution                      2.4        8.1        10.5       0.7        21.0          21.7
Vehicles and spares                0.0         4.7        4.7       0.0         4.0           4.0
Technical assistance & training    0.5         2.6        3.1       0.0          6.0          6.0
Office equipment                   0.0         0.3        0.3       0.0         0.7           0.7
Housing                            0.5         0.2        0.7       0.0         0.1           0.1
VRA
Rehabilitation:
Generation                        0.3        1.5        1.8       0.0          2.4           2.4
Substations                       1.5        9.7        11.2      0.1          0.0           0.1
Physical contingencies             0.6         3.0        3.6       0.0         0.0           0.0
Price contingencies                1.5         8.1        9.6       0.0         0.0           0.0
Ministry of Fuel and Power
Vehicles and Spares                0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.2           0.2
Studies                            0.0         0.5        0.5       0.0         0.5           0.5
Total cost                         7          41.2       48 8        0         34.9          35.7
B. Proiect FinancinR (USSml:
Apmraisal Estimate                                Actual
Local                Foreign   Total            Local      Foreign Total
Item         Costs                Costs    Costs             Costs      Costs Costs
(USS million)                                        (USS million)
IDA                               0.0       28.0      28.0              0.0       34.9      34.9
Italian Government                0.0       10.0       10.0             0.0       0.0        0.0
VRA                               2.7        3.2        5.9             0.1       0.0        0.1
ECG                               42         0.0       A9               02        2-2        01
7.6       412       48.8                       2i49      35 7
a/ Rehabilitation of the Tema Diesel Plant for implementation by VRA.
Converted at SDRI = $1.2917



6t Pfo)ect Resuhe
A. Efficincy Indicatom
1986        1966         1987         1988         1989         1990
ECO
Sales (GWh)                               964          934          995         1,097        1,203       1,249
System ioes (GQWh)                        l11          249          276          225          259          314
Numbor of consumere                    266,666      264.047     239,889       271,400     288,539      304,8t19
Numberof staff                           4,807        4,641       3.812         3,639       3,190        3,106
Numbor of consumers per employee           66           66           63           76           90           98
Number of employ... per VYih a             6.0         6.0          3.8          3.3          2.7          2.6
VRA
Sales (WiWt)                             2,69        4,262       4,661         4,700       4,936        6,228
System Ioes (GWlh)                        141          126          112          109          126          180
Numbor of staff                          2,429        2,462       2,443        2,407        2,321        2,266
NumberofemployeesperaWehsales            1,074        1,72       1,867         1,963       2,127        2,317
R. Flnancial Indicators
1966                     1986                      1967                      1968                     1989                      1990
SAR Ent.     Actual      SAR Est.      Actual      SAP Eet.      Actual      SAR Est.      Actual      SAR Est.      Actual     SAR Est.      Actual
ECG
Sale (VWYh)                              866.0       964.0        900.0        934.0        900.0        994.0        900.0      1,097.0        900.0      1,203.0       900.0       1,249.0
Average rovenue (Cedle/kIit)               27         26           3.1          4.2          3.1          6.3          3.1          7.2         3.1          7.9          3.1          6.6
Tota revenuee (C million)              2.364.0      2,387.0      2,768.0      3,960.0      2,759.0      6,276.0     2,780.0      7,934.0      2,781.0      9,56.0       2,762.0     10,794.0
Totalexpenese(C millon) a/             1,685.0      1,393.0      2.26t.0      6,249.0      2,268.0      9,138.0     2,432.0      9,212.0      2,613.0      6,846.0      2,786.0     11,464.0
Notlnoome(C mlhlon)                      469.0       126.0        490.0      (4,408.0)      601.0      (5,007.0)      328.0     (4,4e3.0)       148.0       306.0        (23.0)     (1,122.0)
Operating ratIwo(%)                       77.0         62.6        80.0         80.1         74.0        151.8         76.0        110.0         63.0        86.0         93.0         99.0
Debt f%ofdobt&equity                      69.0        186.3        63.0        (223.2)       48.0         66.5         48.0          0.6        44.0          0.6         44.0          0.6
Debt tl Co ooverageratlo(times)            2.9         4.0          2.9          0.3          2.9         (0.8)         2.5          2.4          2.2         2.6          1.9          1.5
Current ratio                              2.8         0.6          3.0          0.4          2.4          0.3          2.4          u.4          2.2         0.4           1.7         0.4
Rate of return on average revabuod        26.0       634.0         26.0        437.7         25.0        (39.2)        18.0         (5.1)        13.0         7.7          17.0         0.4
net ftixd _"te In operation (%)
VPA
sale. (GWM)                            3,182.0      3,066.0      3,607.0      8,466.0      3,607.0     12,529.0     3,607.0     20,802.0      3,607.0     28,899.0      3,507.0     37,233.0
Average rewnue(Cedte/kWht)                 1.2         1.1          1.3          2.0          1.4          2.7          1.4          4.4          1.4         6.9          1.4          7.1
Total revenue (C milion)               3,944.0      3,272.0      4,718.0      9,037.0      4,666t.0    12,666.0     4,926.0     20,782.0      4,996.0     32,166.0      5,062.0     37,280.0
Totu txpense (Cm lmion)e/              1,911.0      2,066.0      2,146.0      6,914.0      2,279.0      8,074.0     2,432.0     11,246.0      2,681.0     14,873.0      2,739.0     19,866.0
Net Income (C miNIon)                  Z033.0       1,206.0      2,573.0      3,123.0      2,687.0     4,691.0      2,498.0      9,63.0       2,414.0     17,292.0      2,323.0     17,394.0
Operatlng ratio (%)                       26.0        46.7         27.0         64.0         29.0         45.1         33.0         42.6        38.0         42.4         39.0         46.3
Debt e% of debt &equny                    41.0        31.9         30.0         29.3         31.0         26.5         26.0         23.6         22.0        24.7          18.0        23.3
Debte rvloecoveoragratio(times)            2.0         1.8          2.1          2.3          2.3          1.5          2.6          2.5          2.6         3.7          3.3          3.7
Currentratio                               1.4         1.1          1.4           1.6         1.4          1.4          1.4          1.2          1.4         1.7           1.4         1.6
Ratoftretumon avrag  revaiued             11.0         6.8         12.0          6.6         11.0          6.7         10.0          9.1          9.0         9.6          8.0          9.2
net fixed *xtt in operation (%)
a/ Inckuding Intert ctwge-.



- 25 -
C. Financial                        Appraisal
Impact                           Estimate             Actual
Financial Rate of Retum          30%                  33.5%
Purpose as Defined
D. Studies                         at Appraisal            Status           Impact of Studies
Akosombo Hydro Plant                ND                   Completed   Rehabilitation/retrofit under VRA Power
VI Project.
Distribution Expansion Plan         ND                   Completed   Extension of facilities under the VRA
Northern Grid Extension Project and the
VRA Power VI Project. Further studies
on the Northern Electrification Planning
Study under the VRA Power VI Project.
Generation Expansion Study          ND                   Completed   Recomendations carried out under VRA
Power VI Project.
Tariff Study                     To set electricity prices   Completed   Recommendations served as the basis for
after consideration of the           tariff increases, rate of return on net
long-run marginal cost;              fixed assets as weU as on-going tariff
recommend allocation of              discussions.
the sector; recommend
allocation of surpluses
between extention at the
utilities or payment of
dividends.
Sector Organization              Determine merits of     Completed   Reorganization of ECG and transfer
merging ECG and VRA.                 of some responsibilities to VRA.
ND - not defined in the SAR



- 26 -
7. Status of Covenants                                      Deadline for
Covenant                         Subiect                 Compliance         Status
Development Credit Agreement - GOG
Section 3.04           Sector legislation and                                  Complied.
reorganization studies;
upon completion, discuss
conclusions and roecom-
mendations with IDA.
Section 4.01 (a)       Separate accounts, Part                                 Complied.
C (Studies).
Section 4.01 (b)       Annual audits, copies                                   Complied.
to Association six
months after end-FY.
Section 4.01 (c)       Statements of expendi-                                  Complied
ture accounts included                                 satisfactorily.
in annual audits.
Section 4.02           Based on studies (3.04          From Dec. 31,           Complied; reorgani-
above), start implemen-        1985.                   zation of ECG done
tation of measures for                                 with technical assist-
reorganization of power                                ance from Irish
sector.                                                Electricity Supply Board and
with transfer of some
responsibilities to VRA under the
Northern Grid Extension project.
Section 4.03           Settlement of overdue           Dec. 31, 1986.          Resolved as part of ECG
public sector bills;                                   capital restructuring
other bills settled                                    and clearing system under
within 60 days of                                      Fifth Power Project.
billing date.
Section 4.05 (i)       Annual review of VRA            Jan. 1, 1986.           Satisfactory agreement
and ECG rates to ensure                                reached under Fifth Power
higher rates or minimum                                Project.
25% contribution to
investment.
Section 4.05 (ii)      After completion of             June 30, 1986.          Satisfactory agreement
tariff study, agree-                                   (Fifth Power Project) with
ment on financial ob-                                  Govemment on fmancial
jectives and earnings                                  objectives for power sector
for VRA and ECG; adopt                                 and on minimum rate of
criteria and schedule                                  return on annually revalued
for adjustment rates.                                  net fixed assets in operation.
Section 4.06           No new sector invest-                                   Satisfactory.
ments exceeding
$25 million before the
end of the project
without IDA agreement.



- 27 -
Section 4.07           Review foreign ex-             June 30, 1988.          Undertaken in context of
change resources.                                     appraisal of the VRA Power
VI Project.
Proiect Aereement - ECG
Section 4.01 (b)       Annual Audits - copies         6 months after         Satisfactory.
to the Association.            end of each
fiscal year.
Section 4.01 (c)       Audit of Statements of         6 months after         Satisfactory.
Expenditures from              end of each
Credit account included        fiscal year.
in annual audits.
Section 4.02           Revalue fixed assets.          After tariff           Satisfactorily com-
studies are            pleted.
completed.
Section 4.03           Public Sector overdue          Dec. 31, 1986,         Improved position -
bills settled by Dec. 31,      Dec. 31, 1987.         see above (DCA Section
1986 and other bills within                           4.03). Targets revised
60 days from the billing date;                        under Fifth Power Project.
receivables other than from
the Borrower and parastatal
enterprises outstanding no
more than 120 days by Dec.
31, 1986 and no more than
90 days from Dec. 31, 1987
and thereafter.
Section 4.05           Debt service coverage                                 Satisfactory following
minimum 1.5 times.                                    December 1988 capital
structuring.
Proiect Aereement - VRA
Section 4.01 (b)       Annual audits - copies         6 months after         Satisfactory.
to the Association.            the end of each
fiscal year.
Section 4.01 (c)       Audit of Statements of                                 Not applicable.
Expenditures from
Credit account included
in annual audits.
Section 4.02           Annual revaluation of                                 Satisfactory.
fixed assets.
Section 4.03           Overdue bills for service      Dec. 31, 1986.          Satisfactory - see (DCA
to ECG settled by                                     Section 4.03 and PA-ECG
12-31-86, and other bills                             Section 4.03).
settled within 60 days of
billing date.
Section 4.05           Debt service coverage                                 Satisfactory.
minimum 1.5 times.



- 28 -
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Input
Planned                    Revised                Actual
Through appraisal          n.a.                        n.a.                  49.1
Appraisal through
Board approval           n.a.                        n.a.                   93.5
Supervision                n.a.                        n.a.                  61.8
B. Missions
Month/ No.of   Days-  Special-           Types of
Proiect Cycle      Year  Persons  Field  ization   Ratinr   Problems
Through Appraisal 09/80    2        6     PE, ES    -          -
03/81    1       3     LO         -         -
03/81    3      29     FA, PE    -          -
09/82    3      12     PA, PE    -          -
EC
02/83    2      24     FA, PE    -          -
Appraisal through
Board            06/81    3      14     FA, PE    -          -
11/81    1       5     FA
05/83    3      25     FA, PE,
ED
10/84    1
11/84    4      24     FA, PE,
EC, DC
Board through
Effectiveness    10/85    3      21     EC, PE,
02/86
Supervision 1/    04/86    6      24      FA, PE    2       ECG's financial position; delay in appointing a
consultant to conduct the tariff study.
EC, OA
07/86    3       9     FA, PE,
EC
10/86    1       S     EC
12/86    2      22     FA, EC    2       ECG's poor financial position; qualified  1985
accounts.
03/87    1       5     FA         2      ECG's financial position: customer receivablews,
ECG's indebtedness to VRA; ECG's ability to meet
debt service and finance local construction costs.
03/87    1       7     ED
04/87    2       6     PA, EC    2       Unfilled positions, unsatisfactory financial position of
ECG.
07/87    2      22     PA, EC    1       Parastatal arrears, unfilled positions (Managing
Director, Finance Director).
09/87    1       6     ES
11/87    3      20     FA, EC    1       Billing,collection and parastatal arrears to ECG.
EG



- 29 -
Monthl No.of   Days-  Special-           Types of
Proiect Cycle      Year  Persons  Field  ization   Ratin!   Problems
02188    2      4      FA, PE      1     Re-examination of the revised organization structure;
comprehensive plan to improve metering, billing and
collection; marketing strategy; tecruitment of the
Director of Finance; poor condition of stores and the
need for effective procedurs for the disposal of
scrap and obsolete items;
08/89    1      2      FA          1     Tariff increase.
06/90    1      5      PE
11/90    2      4      FA, EC    1
n.a. - Not available
1/ Exact number of days uncertain as supervision/preparation for other projects took place at this time
Specialization: DC-Division Chief, EC-Economist, ED-Training Specialist, ES-Energy Specialist, FA-Financial Analyst,
GE-Geologist, LO-Loan Officer, OA-Operations Assistant, PE-Petroleum Engineer, PS-Petroleum
Specialist,
Rating        1 - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problems



-30 -                            ANNEX
Page 1 of 2
PROJECr CdMPLETION REPORT
R.EPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABMLITATION PROJECr
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
Electricity Corooration of Ghana
Audited Income Statement, 1984-1990
(Cedi million)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990
Purchases (from VRA)                       799     1,039    1,158     1,266     1,319    1,459     1,560
Generation (GWh)                            33       31        25         3        3         3        3
Total Generation (GWh)                     832     1,070    1,183     1,269     1,322     1,462    1,563
Average Purchase price (c/kWh)             0.6       0.7      2.0       2.7       2.8      2.9       3.1
Sales Increase %                         15.4%     27.5%    -2.1%      6.4%     10.4%      9.7%     3.8%
Energy Sales (GWh)                         748      954       934      994      1,097    1,203     1,249
Losses                                   10.0%       11%      21%       22%       17%      18%       20%
Average Price (Cedis/kWh)                  2.0       2.5      4.2       5.3       7.2      7.9       8.6
Revenue:
Energy Revenue                          1,484    2,387     3,960    5,276     7,934     9,556    10,794
Levy on Street Lighting                    0         0        0         0        62       77        86
Other income                              11        13      524       116      (228)     213       201
Consumer Contribution Amortization         1         1        2         4         4        15       28
Total Revenue                           1,496    2,401     4,486    5,396     7,772     9,861    11,109
O9eratina Expenses
Purchased Power from VRA                  443      764     2,259     3,440     3,696    4,233     4,817
Generation                                 48      159       307        60       39        43       108
Distribution/Others                        69      142       235      307       637       932     1,016
Transport                                  23       40        76       111      283       307      471
Administration                            193      265       678     1,517     1,231    1,043    1,928
Bad Debts Written Off                       0        0         0      780         0         0      384
Depreciation                                9       23        38     1,975     2,683    1,904     2,293
Total Expenses                            785     1,393    3,593     8,190     8,569    8,462    11,017
Operating Income                           711     1,008      893    (2,794)    (797)    1,399       92
Less: Interest                             112      255     2,656       948      643       383      437
Amort. of Exchange Fluct. Debt           174      628     2,645     1,265     3,023      711      777
Net Income                               425       125   (4,408)   (5,007)   (4,463)     305   (1,122)
_._ ......._ . ......  ........... ......  ........... .. ...__.....B ....... ....._.... ...
Allocation of Net Income:
Retained Earnings                        425       125    (4,408)   (5,007)   (4,463)    305    (1,122)
-       -. ---  ------  ------  ----    --- __ _ .    .....
Rate Base                                  118      159       204     7,131    15,587    18,139    21,882
Rate of Return % on Rate Base          1205.1%    634.0%   437.7%   -39.2%      -5.1%      7.7%     0.4%
Operating Ratio                          52.47     58.02    80.09    151.78    110.25    85.81     99.17



ANNEX I
- 31 -                         Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEm REHABM[XrATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
Audited Balance Sheet. 1984-1990
(Cedi million)
1984     1985     1986      1987      1988     1989     1990
Fixed Assets:
Plant in Service                         193      298       343   46,745    62.887    77,493   99,444
Less: Depreciation                        75       98       135   32,691    45,768    58,334   74,840
Operating Plant                          118      200       208   14,054    17,119    19,159   24,604
WorkinProgress                           144      184        85     1002      2010    5,511    2,843
Total Fixed Assets                       262      384       293   15,056    19,129    24,670   27,447
Other Assets
Investments                                1        2         2        1         1        1         1
GWSC Med-Term Debtor                                          0        0         0      920       668
Deferred Charges:
Rehab. Delayed Maintenance                                   0        0         0        0    1,112
Exchange Fluct.                       1,180     1376    4,028      4231      5276     6,664    9,017
Current Assets
Cash                                      63      163       207      636      1563     1,349    2,307
Inventories                               81      259       363    1,105     1,676     1,821    3,032
Debtors                                1,606    2,799    5,115    3,519      6,542     5,060    5,996
Prepayments                               12       12        36      266        67      926       933
Total Current Assets                   1,762    3,233    5,721      5,526    9,848     9,156   12,268
Total Assets                           3,205    4,995    10,044   24,814    34,254    41,411    50,513
Equity & Uabillties
Equity
Pald In Capital                           17       17        17       17        17   10,766   10,766
Retained Earnings                        307      (490)   (4,898)   (9.941)  (14,405)  (14,114)  (18,671)
Revaluation Reserve                        0        0         0   14,961    20,364    23,483   26,610
Total Equity                             324      (473)   (4,881)    5,037   5,976   20,135   18,705
Uabilities
Consumer Contributlons                    32       39        79      170       475     1,122    2,182
Welfare Fund                              25       31        31        3         0        0         0
Long-Term Debt                         1,416     1,197    3,371     6,281    9,615    17,570   21,247
Current Uabllltles
Payables                               1,048    2,808    6,737    7,602    10,924      1,405    6,999
Current Maturities LTDebt                360     1,393    4,707    5,721     7,264     1,179    1,380
Total Uabilities                       2,881     5,468    14,925    19,777    28,278    21,276   31,808
Total Equity&Uabilities                  3,205    4,995    10,044   24,814    34,254    41,411    50,513
._......   ..... a--------  _    ___            ,, ,, _
Debt % of Debt & Equity                  81.4%    165.3%  -223.2%    55.5%      0.62     0.47      0.53
Current Ratio                              0.6      0.6       0.4     0.28      0.35     0.43      0.39
Recievables (months billing)              13.0     14.1      15.5      8.0       9.9      6.4       6.7



-32-                             ANNEX
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMeLETION REPORT
REPUBUC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABJITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH
GHANA - VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Audited Income Statement, 1984-1990
(Cead Million)
1984     1985       1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
Sales Increase %                              64.1     64.1      55.1      7.3       3.0       5.0      5.9
Energy Sales (GWH)                          1,670     2,741     4,252    4,561     4,700    4,936     5,228
Average PriceAKWH                             0.9       1.2       2.0      2.7       4.4       5.9      7.1
REVENUE:                                    1,538     3,179     8,465    12.529    20,602    28,899    37,233
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries                                      57      225       426      601       905       816    1,481
Materials                                     40       42       159      230       387       264      756
Transportatlon                                38       81       137      221       419       411      612
General Expenses                              90      208       380      594       995     1,645     2,785
Generating Costs                               0        0       313      234         0       851     1,545
NED                                            0        0         0      432      1,038    1,361      995
Depreciation                                702       930     3,153     3,343    5,036     6,918     8.685
Doubtful Debt                                                            351         0         0        0
TOTAL EXPENSES                               926     1,486    4,568     6,006    8,780    12,266    16,859
Operating Income                              612     1,693    3,897     6,523    11,822    16,633    20,374
Other Income (Loss)                           182        93      572       136       180    3,266        27
Net Income before Interes                     794     1.786    4,469     6,659    12.002    19,899   20,401
Interest                                      423       580     1,346    2,068     2,466    2,607     3,007
NET INCOME                                  371      1,206    3,123    4,591     9,536    17,292    17,394
.-Mmme                       =... .. ..             fl _..
Allocation of Net Income:
Dividend                                      0         0         0        0     3,623        0         0
Retained Earnings                           371      1,206    3,123     4,591    5,913    17,292    17,394
Rate Base                                  20,687    29,042   59,057    97,247   129,777   172,878  222,339
Rate of Return % on Rate Bases a              3.0%     5.8%      6.6%     6.7%      9.1%      9.6%     9.2%
Operating Ratio                              60.2      46.7     54.0      45.1      42.6     42.4      45.3
/a Currently valued.
AF41E/04-Jun-92



-33-                            ANNEX2
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLTION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECr
(CREDIT 162R-GH)
GHANA - VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Audited Balance Sheet, 1984-1990
(Cedi Million)
ASSETS                                      1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
htxed Assets
Plant In Service                         34,765   44,068  125,491   168,522  241,926  320,986  423,685
Less: Depreciation                        8,817    11,932   39,514   60,006   90,888   126,269  173,725
Operating Plant                          25,948   32,136   85,977  108,516  151,038   194,717  249,960
Capital Work in Progress                    424      984    2,755    7,437    15,870   44,209   71,741
Total Net Fixed ASSets                   26,372   33,120   88,732  115,953  166,908  238,926  321,701
Other Assets
Debt Contingency Fund-Investment              0        0        0         0        0    3,069    4,376
Current Assets:
Cash                                        147      224      877       768    2,658    5,460    4,562
Inventories                                  52      163      381       896    1,163    1,932    1,912
Receivables                               1,011    1,429    3,498    3,112    2,082    4,635    6,301
Other                                         0        0      307    1,082       628    1,491    7,311
Total Current Assets                      1,211     1,816    5,063    5,858    6,531    13,518   20,086
Total Assets                             27,583   34,936   93,795  121,811   173,439  255,513  346,163
Equity & Uabilitles
Equity
Paid in Capital                              59      137      284       374      374       374      374
Retained Earnings                           969    2,175    5,298    9,890    15.802   33,094   50,488
Revaluation Reserve                      16,204   20,328   58,046   75,153   112,150   150,657  201,617
Total Equity                             17,232   22,640   63,628   85,417  128,326  184,125  252,479
Debt Contingency Fund                          0        0         0        0         0    3,069    4,376
Long Term Debt                              9,129   10,594   26,306   30,745   39,744   60,445   76,576
Short Term Debt                                0        0       608    1,407         0        0        0
Current Uablilities:
Payables                                     47      170      186       339      504       894    3,770
Loan Interest                               301      459      852       901     1,504    2,553    4,111
Current Maturities LT Debt                  875    1,073    2,215    3,002    3,361      4,427    4,851
Total Current Uabilltles                  1,222    1,702    3,253    4,242    5,369      7,874   12,732
Total Equity & Uabilltles                  27,583   34,936   93,795  121,811   173,439  255,513  346,163
Debt % ot Debt and Equity                   34.6%    31.9%    29.3%    26.5%    23.6%    24.7%    23.3%
Current Ratio                                 1.0      1.1      1.6       1.4      1.2       1.7      1.6
Receivables (months billing)                  8.0      6.0      5.0       3.0      1.2       1.9      2.1
AF41E/04-Jun-92



-34-                                          ANNEX  3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1628-GH)
Cost and Benefit Streams - Rate of Return a/
Costs                                       Sales (GwH)
---------------------- ---------------------  ............ . . . . . . .
Operation                                                                    Sates      Total
Year  Investment       and         Bulk        Total          With    Without                  Value e/   Benefit
Costs b/  Maintenance  Supply d/    Costs             Project  Project Incremental       (Sm)        (Sm)
(Sm)          C/        (LRNC)
1986         0.0         0.00        0.00        0.00           934       934          0          0.00        0.00
1987         9.0         0.18        2.64       11.82           994       934         60          3.60       -8.22
1988         5.5         0.29        7.17       12.96         1,097       934        163          9.78       -3.18
1989        3.4          0.36       11.84       15.59         1,203       934       269          16.14        0.55
1990         1.0         0.38       13.86       15.24         1,249       934       315          18.90        3.66
1991         0.5         0.39       20.64       21.52         1,403       934       469          28.14        6.62
1992        0.0          0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1993        0.0          0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1994        0.0          0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1995        0.0          0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1996         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1997         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1998         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
1999         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934       469          28.14        7.12
2000         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2001         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2002         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2003         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2004         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2005         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2006         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934        469         28.14        7.12
2007         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934        469         28.14        7.12
2008         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403        934       469         28.14        7.12
2009         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934        469         28.14        7.12
2010         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934        469         28.14        7.12
2011         0.0         0.39       20.64       21.02         1,403       934        469         28.14        7.12
IRR - 33.48X
a/ Calculations based on benefits to ECG only since benefits to VRA from
the painting of the Akosombo plant cannot be quantified.
b/ Excludes technical assistance, studies and training costs.
c/ Two percent of cumilative costs
d/ Long run marginal cost for bulk supply - SO.044
e/ Tariff based on willingness to pay - $0.06



