Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
c 1. /r--5
Reprt No. P-4146-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIOtNAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
CO A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 27 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
September 6, 1985
|Iis document bas a resticted diibuta  *nd may be used by rcipients only in te performane of
tdhir ofica duies. s  "cotmus nmy not odtrwise be disclosed without World Dank authorizx5on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984        August 1985
Currency Unit             Cedis (E)            0
US$1                   ¢35.9                57
ol                     US$0.028             0.018
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONUYMS
CEB       -    Communaute Electrique du Benin
ECG       -    Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EECI      -    Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
ESB       -    Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
GNPC      -    Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
MFP       -    Ministry of Fuel and Power
NEB       -    National Energy Board
PNDC      -    Provisional National Defence Council
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
VALCO     -    Volta Aluminum Company
VRA       -    Volta River Authority



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
GHANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Government of Ghana
Beneficiaries:       Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG) and
Volta River Authority (VRA)
Amount:              SDR 27 million (US$28.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Relending
Terms:               Proceeds of the credit would be relent to ECG and VRA
for 15 years, including up to 5 years of grace, at 8.8
percent interest per annum. ECG and VRA will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proj ect
Description:         The project's main objective is to restore more
reliable electricity service by overcoming
unsatisfactory operating conditions in ECG's and VRA's
systems. It would consist mainly of rehabilitation
works on ECG's distribution network and VRA's principal
substations. In addition, the project contains
components for improvements in plant support
facilities, studies and technical assistance. Under
the technical assistance component, studies would be
undertaken which would provide the basis for
reorganization of the sector and rehabilitation of its
institutions (168 man-months). The technical
assistance program would also include training,
operational support, and assistance in the
implementation of the rehabilitation plan. The
principal benefit from the project would be the support
that improved electricity service would provide to the
country's economic recovery. Since most of Ghana's
industry relies on public service electricity, the
value of reliable supply to the nation's economy is
considerable. ECG's institutional weaknesses which
affect its capacity for project execution would be
addressed by a consultant study and implementation of
an agreed work plan based on it for improving the
institutional efficiency of ECG as well as VRA.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: I/
Foreign      Local     Total
ECG
Rehabilitation:
Generation                                 2.5        0.3       2.8
Distribution                               8.1        2.4      10.5
Vehicles and spares                          4.7         -        4.7
Technical assistance 2/                      2.2        0.5       2.7
Training                                     0.4         -        0.4
Studies                                      0.2         -        0.2
Office equipment                             0.3         -        0.3
Housing                                      0.2        0.5       0.7
Base Cost (ECG)                             18.6        3.7      22.3
VRA
Rehabilitation:
Generation                                 1.5        0.3       1.8
Substations                                9.7        1.5      11.2
Studies                                      0.3         -        0.3
Base cost (VRA)                             11.5        1.8      13.3
Sub-total (Base cost)3/                     30.1        5.5      35.6
Physical contingencies                       3.0        0.6       3.6
Price contingencies                          8.1        1.5       9.6
Total project cost                          41.2        7.6      48.8
Financing Plan
IDA                                         28.0         -       28.0
Italian Government                          10.0         -       10.0
ECG                                           -         4.9       4.9
VRA                                          3.2        2.7       5.9
Total                                   41.2        7.6      48.8
1/ Project expenditures are exempt from taxes and duties which are not
included in the estimate.
2/ Includes US$0.7 million PPF advance.
3/ At June 1985 prices.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY     1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual                    3.9    8.2    7.3    5.1    2.7    0.8
Cumulative                3.9   12.1   19.4  24.5   27.2   28.0
Return on Investment:    30%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4932-GH, dated August 26, 1985
Map: IBRD No. 17663R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of SDR 27.0
million (US$28.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a power system rehabilitation project. US$25.6 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Electric Corporation of Ghana
(ECG), and US$2.4 equivalent to the Volta River Authority (VRA), for 15
years, including up to 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.8 percent per
annum. Cofinancing of US$10.0 million equivalent is expected to be
provided by the Italian Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana:  Managing the Transition" was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1984 (5289-GH). A
summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, a declining gross national
income has combined with high population growth (estimated at about 3
percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income.
The average real income in 1983 is estimated at US$320, which represents a
substantial decline over what it was a decade ago. The rate of unemploy-
ment is quite high and underemployment is widespread. Almost half the
population of about 12 million is now estimated to live in absolute
poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa,
are no longer much better than those of other Sub-Sahara African countries
with comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are available
to only about a third of the people, and only 47 percent have access to
safe water. Although the education system is well established and
elementary education has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and
70 percent of adult women have had no formal education.
1/ This Part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 4, 1985.



-2-
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold,
but also diamonds, bauxite and manganese, and offshore oil. There is
further potential for hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively good
supply of land suitable for growing cereals and starchy staples and
possesses considerable fishing and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
over half of GDP. Only 11 percent of the land area is cultivated, half of
which is under cocoa. Nearly 70 percent of the population derive an income
from agriculture or related activities. The basic staple foods are maize,
rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but, except for cassava, yields of
these crops have stagnated in recent years. Food production in 1980 was
only 88 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts in 1975-77 and
1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transport facilities, and lack
of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline. In recent
years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal consumption
(mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
still contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although
production has been declining. Timber is also an important export item.
Mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner, contrib-
uting 20 percent of the total, although production has been declining over
the past two decades. Efforts to diversify the export base have not made
much headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 7
percent and 40 percent of GDP, respectively.  Manufacturing-including
textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods-contributed
3.4 percent of GDP in 1983 declining from 11.4 percent in 1970 and provided
full- or part-time employment to just over one-tenth of the labor force.
However, manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported
inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source of
fuel for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been
discovered and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude
is now about 650 barrels per day, equivalent to 5 percent of the country's
requirements. Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport
commercial energy needs, although it has been drastically affected by the
drought in recent years.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was subject to gross
mismanagement. Large budgetary deficits, necessitated partly by the need



- 3 -
to support a sprawling, inefficient public sector, led to a marked acceler-
ation in domestic inflation. Given the reluctance to move the exchange
rate, the fixed nominal rate became grossly overvalued, shifting relative
incentives away from exports into import trade, and more specifically from
cocoa, Ghana's main export, into subsistence food production. The
resulting deterioration in export performance, combined with a growing
disenchantment on the part of aid donors with Ghana's policy performance,
caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that pushed successive
Governments into increasingly restrictive import regimes. Thus, what was
once an economy with ample imports became starved of the main fuel for its
growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining exports and imports,
and the related decline in economic activity forced severe cutbacks in
Government operations and maintenance and capital expenditures. Thus,
foreign exchange shortages and declining public expenditures contributed to
the marked deterioration in what was once a fairly well developed economic
and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further reduced the country's
productive capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem; extensive price controls and widespread resort to
administrative price setting eroded the incentives to produce and save,
diminished the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and created a vast parallel black market with its
related evils of corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real
wages, political instability and reduced economic opportunities led
talented and skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving the country
of scarce managerial, administrative and technical skills.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
years of the present decade to three additional problems. First, a
prolonged and severe drought that created the worst food shortages since
Independence. Second, a sharp deterioration in external terms of trade
following the increase in petroleum import prices, and a softening in
prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa, gold and manganese). Third, the
sudden and unexpected return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria,
placing a severe strain on the food and unemployment situation. The
cumulative effect of the downward economic spiral and these most recent
"shocks" to the system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators
between 1970 and 1982: r3r capita real income declined by 30 percent;
import volumes fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 percent;
domestic savings and investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of GDP
respectively in 1970 to almost insignificant levels; inflation averaged 44
percent per annum over the period.
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) which came to
power under the leadership of Flight Lieutenant Rawlings on December 31,
1981, established a National Economic Review Committee early in 1982 to
review the country's economic difficulties and to develop an adjustment
program that would check this downward economic spiral and pave the way for



national economic recovery. An economic recovery program was developed by
the Government in close coordination with the IMF and the World Bank. The
program was supported in the period April 1983 to August 1984 through a
first IMF Standby Arrangement for SDR 238.5 million and through IDA
financed operations including a Reconstruction Import Credit (US$40
million) and two Export Rehabilitation Projects (US$93 million). Support
for the period August 1984 to December 1985 is being extended through a
second IMF Standby Arrangement for SDR 180 million and a Second IDA
Reconstruction Imports Credit (US$60 million). Since its inception, the
Economic Recovery Program has focussed on: (a) establishing a more
realistic exchange rate, which has resulted in an exchange rate movement
from ¢ 2.75 = US$1.00 to 0 57.00 = US$1.00 within a twenty-eight month
period; (b) establishing realistic relative prices and incomes in the
context of the new exchange rate. Cocoa producer prices were raised by 67
percent to ¢ 20,000 per ton on May 1, 1983 and further to 9 30,000 per ton
for the crop year 1984/85. A further increase to ¢56,600 was announced
effective June 7, 1985. In the case of all administered prices of imported
goods and services, or inputs, a full pass through of the higher cedi cost
following the exchange rate movement was effected. Public sector salaries
and wages, and statutory minimum wages were raised to offset in part the
drastic erosion in real incomes. Public utilities announced substantial
tariff adjustments to more realistic levels; (c) increasing domestic
resource mobilization, by an improved public savings effort, and by
improving the environment for private savings and investment. In the last
one and a half years, all interest rates were raised by 65-70 percent, or
by 4.5-6.5 percentage points; and (d) rehabilitation programs for key
sectors designed to ensure a prompt supply side response to the planned
improvement in incentives. The four IDA-financed import support credits
are intended to help achieve such a response.
13.       Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in consul-
tation with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana Consultative
Group which had lain dormant for 13 years. There has been a good response
to this initiative. The Group met in Paris, first in November 1983 and for
the second time in December 1984, and has been broadly supportive of the
Government's program. Aid indications provided at the 1984 meeting of
about $415 million, together with the existing aid pipeline, could generate
disbursements during 1985 exceeding US$300 million. This, together with
the IMF Standby, is designed to help finance the third year of the economic
recovery program (1985) by (a) an increase in imports, which would in turn
stimulate domestic production and exports; and (b) a further reduction in
Ghana's past payments arrears (US$231.8 million at end December 1984).
Response of the Economy
14.       Data are inadequate to assess in depth the response of the
economy to this major dose of policy reforms.   However, it does appear
that while the country experienced a further decline in overall output of
roughly 2 percent in 1983, economic recovery was evident during 1984. The
overall growth of the economy is estimated at over 7 percent in 1984.
This is the first major upswing that Ghana's economy has experienced since



-5-
1978. The weather provides a major explanation for this improved perfor-
mance although improved supplies of imported inputs were also making an
impact in the latter half of 1984. The near normal rainfall patterns in
1984 have resulted in a sharp recovery in agricultural production, and the
consequent decline in food prices since May 1984 is providing much needed
relief. Energy availability has also improved, as water levels rose in the
Akosombo and Kpong reservoirs, and as petroleum imports returned to more
normal levels. Capacity utilization in manufacturing, while still unac-
ceptably low, has improved compared to 1983. About one-half of the one
million returnees from Nigeria are believed to have re-migrated, although
some 300,000 had to return to Ghana in 1985. The response of donors to
Ghana's recovery program in 1984 has also been encouraging. While much
remains to be done, Ghana now needs to build on the momentum it has
generated.
15.       The Budget.  In broad terms, the structure of the budget has
improved:  (i) revenues financed 65 percent of current expenditures in
1982, 76 percent in 1983, and are estimated to finance 99 percent in 1984;
(ii) the proportion of total expenditures financed by revenues has risen
from 57 percent to 82 percent; (iii) development expenditures and net
lending are estimated to rise from less than 5 percent of total expendi-
tures in recent years to about 17 percent in 1984; and (iv) the overall
budget deficit fell from 4.4 percent of CDP at market prices in 1982 to 2.2
percent in 1983, and is estimated at 1.5 percent in 1984.
16.       Prices.  At the time tne reform program was initiated, it was
anticipated that inflation in 1983 could be held to around 50 percent.
This expectation did not materialize because of the severe drought and the
resultant increase in food prices which fuelled the 123 percent increase in
consumer prices in 1983. On a December to December basis, the index of
consumer prices rose by 142 percent during 1983. However, in the eight
months following the substantial exchange rate adjustment in April 1983,
prices rose by 50 percent. That inflation was not higher is evidence of
the fact that most prices already reflected scarcity values, and that
fiscal and monetary policies have been largely successful in curbing
inflation. The good rains and the abundant crops have helped dramatically
reduce inflation further in 1984, with the annual rate through December
1984 down to 6.3 percent, vielding an annual averase rate of increase of
39.7 perc.ent over 1983.
17.       Balance of Payments.  Preliminary data on the 1984 balance of
payments out-turn suggest a considerable improvement in the overall balance
of payments position over the drought affected 1983. This is due to an
improvement in Ghana's export prices, and a subatantial increase in aid
disbursements. The value of exports is estimated to have risen to US$566
million, a 29 percent increase over the very low level of 1983. The
recovery of exports is led by cocoa, earnings from which grew by some 40
percent. This is despite a decline in the volume of cocoa exports, which
at 165,000 tons reached a new low. However, unit prices for cocoa have
risen temporarily by nearly 50 percent above 1983 level. Cocoa exports are
set to recover to some 200,000 tons in 1985. Exports of other goods rose



- 6 -
much more modestly in 1984 (12 percent over low 1983 levels). Imports rose
by 10 percent, only a third of what had been programmed because of a
shortfall in official disbursements and lower than expected use of oil
import credits. Petroleum imports remained at the 1983 nominal levels.
Non-petroleum imports rose by 14 percent. The terms of trade improved in
1984 due mainly to the improvement in export prices. Tne current account
deficit of US$286 million at 3.1 percent of GDP is substantially below
original program projections. Instead of the significant increase which
had been projected, net capital receipts in 1984 remained at the some
nominal levels as in 1983, roughly US$170 millior.. Although gross aid
disbursements reached US$298 million, 50 percent higher than in 1983, net
official medium-term loans, as well as short-term capital flows, turned
negative. The capital account might have looked healthier but for the
increase in the level of public sector amortization payments between 1983
and 1984 from US$85 million to US$123 million, delays on the part of donors
in committing new aid, and the relatively slow initial pace of disbursement
of such aid.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1983 is estimated at US$1,095 million, representing
about 12 percent of GDP. The service of this debt was estimated at the
equivalent of 14 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in
1982. However, it is estimated to have risen sharply to 34.8 percent in
1984 on account of both a further decline in export earnings between 1982
and 1984 and the expiration date of the grace period on rescheduled debt.
Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt went from US$245 million in 1977 to
US$601 million by the end of April 1983. The arrears are now being reduced
in a phased manner under the economic recovery program. By December 1984,
they declined to around US$231.8 million, a rate of reduction beyond that
agreed with the I1IF. A further net reduction of US$60 million is planned
for 1985.
19.       Ghana must rely on official sources for most of the external
capital required to support its development program; relatively little of
its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. Consequently,
Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed at end-1983 (US$192.1 million)
together represented about 17.5 percent of the country's estimated public
external debt. Service payments on these loans and credits accounted for
25 percent of the country's external debt service, but they are projected
to decline to 17 percent of external debt service by 1987 as other s- _ces
of lending revive. Bank Group commitments on a per capita basis amounted
to only US$1.76 during 1977-82. Lending dropped to less than a project a
year during this period before increasing sharply in 1983 to support the
economic reform program.
20.       Ghana's extremely difficult economic situation and its dependence
on, and hence vulnerability to fluctuations in, cocoa export earnings make
it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as low as
possible. Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for



-7-
Bank Group borrowing over the next few years. This is also consistent with
Ghana's relatively low per capita income. At the same time, to help ensure
an adequate flow of foreign exchange into the country and supplement the
country's resource mobilization efforts, it would be appropriate for donors
to finance a significant portion of local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
Lending Strategy
21.       The principal objectives which now guide the formidlation cf the
Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of
policies designed to adjust the structure and improve the efficiency of the
economy and return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and
improve capacity utilization of the country's existing productive assets;
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion and efficient import substitution; and (d) to improve the
country's essential infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) and
relieve major bottlenecks to increased production. The Bank Group is
undertaking a substantial program of economic and sector work to broaden
and deepen understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
recovery process and to provide direction to future lending and the design
of project components. An economic memorandum is being prepared and, in
preparation for the Second Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Government
budget and import program for 1985 were reviewed in detail. A public
expenditure review is also being carried out. An agricultural sector
review has been completed and is being finalized after discussions with
the Government. An industrial sector study is at an advanced stage of
preparation. An energy assessment will be carried out in fall 1985. In
both lending and economic sector work, attention will be given to ways of
strengthening the institutions responsible for economic management and
development spending. The Bank's dialogue has been most effective, and the
Government continues to be both receptive and responsive to the Bank's
advice.
22.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank Group reopened its lending to Ghana
which had been put in abeyance for nearly two years due to political and
economic uncertainties and lack of proper economic policies. The Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit which aims
to meet emergency import requirements for the agricultural and transport
sectors and is now approaching successful completion. Two credits were
1/ This Part is substantially the same as Part II of the President's
Report for the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors an June 4, 1985.



- 8 -
also made for export rehabilitation and related technical assistance. To
date, despite some expected initial problems, the performance on projects
approved after April 1983 has been satisfactory.
23.       In the near term, IDA expects to support programs to rehabilitate
Ghana's main ports as well as priority needs of the education and health
sectors. An agricultural rehabilitation project emphasizing cash crops is
envisaged. Similarly, in industry, the rehabilitation and restructuring of
key subsectors is envisaged. In brief, projects with major rehabilitation
components are likely to absorb the bulk of IDA resources for the next few
years as these are likely to show the highest benefits and quickest
returns- IDA is also maintaining a dialogue with the Government for a
possible structural adjustment credit in the near future. For the outer
years, IDA will begin to examine prospect-s for new productive investments
and other important activities in the social sectors. The extent to which
the Bank Group can provide financial and technical assistance to support
such a broad-based program will be conditioned upon the performance of the
Government in carrying through its economic recovery program.
Past Operations
24.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling TUS$190.4 million and 29 credits
totalling US$530.2 million. In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary of a
Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo,
Ivory Coast and Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of June 30,
1985.
25.       Transportation has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to
Ghana (18.9 percent of commitments). Projects financed in this sector
include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980), a railway rehabilita-
tion project approved in 1981 and, most recently, a road rehabilitation and
maintenance project approved in June 1985. The two Reconstruction Import
Credits and the Export Rehabilitation Project are also providing partial
emergency assistance to the road transport and port sub-sectors. The next
two most important sectors in the Bank Group's program in Ghana are agri-
culture and energy, with each accounting for 18.1 percent of commitments.
The main thrust of the Bank Group's operations in agriculture has been to
assist the country in acLieving greater self-sufficiency in agricultural
production, particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and
rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. In the energy sector, support has been
provided for three hydro power generation projects and three power distri-
bution projects. A project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical
capacity to accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in May 1983. A
second project in the sector, approved in March 1984, provides technical
assistance and financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of
Ghana's sole refinery. The Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports
the transport sub-sector in the Accra area as well as the strengthening of
the administrative and financial basis of the Accra City Council and the



- 9 -
improvement of a poorer part of the city. A telecommunications project
currently under implementation aims at improving and expanding domestic
telephone services in Accra and major urban centers. In the field of water
supply three projects (in 1969, 1974 and 1983) have helped increase and
improve water supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural
areas, with the most recent one helping to carry out emergency repairs and
maintenance on main water pipelines. In the manufacturing sector, two DFC
operations (in 1975 and 1979) have financed investment projects in manufac-
turing and agro-industry undertaken by sm-all and medium enterprises.
Project Implementation Experience
26.       The country's economic difficulties in recent years have
adversely affected a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling
Government revenues have denied projects needed local financing, and the
lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported
materials and spare parts required for completed projects. The mass exodus
of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization,
absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have also
adversely affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions
surrounding Bank Group-financed projects and their generally poor perfor-
mance have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance
Audit Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that macro-
economic and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible
for poor performance of the audited projects. Because of delays
experienced in the implementation of a number of Bank Group-financed
projects in Ghana, disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates.
Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period FY81-84 have averaged
about 20 percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of June 30,
1985, US$306.8 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has held
periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify steps which
could be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disbursement
on ongoing loans and credits.
IFC Operations
27.       IFC approved an investment of US$55 million in the mining sector
(Ashanti Goldfields Corporation Ltd. (AGC)) in June 1984. This is IFC's
first investment in Ghana. The loan will help finance a US$158 million
rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output from about 255,000
oz. in 1984 to 400,000 oz. in 1989-90, a level of production AGC last
achieved in the early 1970s before the deterioration in Ghana's foreign
exchange situation began to affect production at the mine.



- 10 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Sector Institutions
28.       The principal responsibility for the energy sector lies with the
Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP). Government entities in the petroleum
sector include the Geological Survey Department which monitors petroleum
exploration, the Ghana Italian Petroleum Company Limited which operates the
refinery, and the Ghana Oil Company Limited which distributes petroleum
products. In the power sector, the Volta River Authority (VRA) owns and
operates the hydro plants and high voltage transmission facilities, sells
bulk power to the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG), the Volta
Aluminum Co. (VALCO) and other firms, and exports bulk electricity to Togo,
Benin and Ivory Coast. ECG buys power from VRA for distribution in the
main grid, and owns and operates diesel plants supplying isolated systems.
VRA is a modern, well-run public utility with a competent staff of 2,500;
under its 1961 charter, it is permitted to operate with a high degree of
financial and managerial independence. ECG, in contrast, has not met its
sector responsibilities in recent years because of ineffective management,
overstaffing at lower levels, lack of qualified technical personnel, and
lack of foreign exchange to purchase spare parts and equipment; its service
is poor, with interrupted supply, and it has been unable to provide either
for new connections or for system reinforcement to maintain voltage levels.
The proposed project is designed to rehabilitate generation and distribu-
tion facilities of VRA and ECG along with institutional improvements
starting December 31, 1985.
29.       With close consultation with the Bank, the Goverment has
recently taken several steps to strengthen management of the energy sector.
First, it established the National Energy Board (HER) as the advisory body
to the MFP. NEB is responsible for gathering statistical data on energy
resources, production, transformation and consumption, for developing
energy policies, conducting energy studies, and coordinating activities in
the renewable energy field. Second, the Government has streamlined the
organization of the petroleum sub-sector by establishing the Ghana National
Petroleum Corporation (GNPC) which has responsibility for exploration,
development, production and disposal of petroleum. GNPC has also taken on
the responsibility for crude and petroleum product procurement, a function
previously performed by the Petroleum Department in the MFP. And finally,
under a PPF advance granted in May 1984, the Government has hired the
Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB) to examine the organization of
the power sub-sector and provide technical assistance to ECG and VRA.
30.       The Government's tentative plans are to invest some US$100
million and US$130 million, respectively, in the petroleum and power
sectors during 1985-90, mainly for rehabilitation of existing facilities,
for extension of the high voltage grid, and for small additions to thermal
generating capacity to complement operation of the hydro plants. Further
studies are required to confirm the economic merits of projects other than



- 11 -
system rehabilitation. Investments in petroleum exploration and devel-
opment are to be left largely to the private sector.
Power Facilities
31.       The total installed generating capacity in Ghana is about 1,120
MW, of which 95 percent comes from two hydroelectric stations owned by VRA:
the Akosombo plant (912 MW), commissioned in the mid-1960s, and the Kpong
plant (160 NW), commissioned in 1982. Economically usable potential is
estimated at 2,000 MW. The remainder comprises small ECG-operated diesel
units installed in 28 stations, which are generally in poor condition.
Both hydro plants are well maintained, although Akosombo's efficiency has
fallen somewhat over time. Under the proposed project, VRA would study the
possibilities for restoring and improving the Akosombo plant.
32.       The VRA 161 kV transmission system totals over 1,200 km.  Eight
circuits of 67 km connect the Akosombo and Kpong plants to the VALCO
smelter at Tema and other industrial loads. A 650 km transmission loop
supplies ECG areas and mines in Southern Ghana. A 161 kV interconnection
with Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) connects Akosombo to Lome (Togo).
In 1983, the Ivory Coast was also interconnected through a 225 kV transmis-
sion line (see map). Under the proposed project 15 of these will be
repaired and upgraded.
33.       ECG's distribution facilities comprise 33 kV and 11 kV overhead
lines and underground cables with 33/11/0.4 kV substations feeding power
from VRA's transmission system or ECG's diesel plants. The quality of
service is generally poor as the system has been Inadequately maintained,
and consumers have been allowed to install service connections of varying
materials and construction standards. Distribution losses average at least
15 percent though the configuration of the system and the voltages involved
suggest that losses could be reduced to about 10 percent through this
project. In recent years, service within the interconnected grid that
serves the main urban centers in southern Ghana has deteriorated, due
largely to poor maintenance and inadequate reinforcement of the distri-
bution system. The isolated diesel plants serving small towns have even
more serious problems. Many operate less than half day because of inade-
quate supply of diesel fuel, due to poor road conditions and the poor state
of the contractor's tanker fleet. Under the proposed project, the Tema
diesel plart (10 x 3 MW), which is not affected by transportation problems,
will be rehabilitated, and various improvements will also be made in ECG
facilities.
Electricity Consumption and Exports
34.       Ghana, with a population of about 12.5 million had about 230,000
electricity consumers in 1983, indicating that no more than 10 percent of



- 12 -
the population 1/ had access to electricity. The cities of Accra, Tema,
Takoradi, Kumasi and Cape Coast accounted for 162,000 (70 percent) of the
total number of consumers, with the remainder spread over other urban
areas. Excluding sales to VALCO and CEB, per capita electricity consump-
tion reached a high of 110 kWh in 1981 (this compares with 217 kWh in Ivory
Coast, 124 kWh in Senegal). Sector sales grew steadily at an annual rate
of 6.3 percent between 1970 and 1977 (from 2,763 GWh to 4,226 GWh), but
slowed down to an annual pace of 5 percent over the period 1977-1981 (from
4,226 GWh to 5,181 GWh), as economic activity declined. Between 1981 and
1983, however, sales dropped by 33.4 percent because hydro generation
decreased from 5,650 GWh in 1981 to 2,650 GWh in 1983 as a consequence of
the drought which started in 1981. In June 1983 VALCO was forced to shut
down its aluminum smelter which only resumed operations on a reduced scale
in April 1985. In 1984, VRA had to restrict supply to Ghana's domestic
market to 1,000 GWh and to CEB to about 300 GWh. During the second half of
1984 it began exports to Ivory Coast at an annual rate of 300 GWh.
35.       VRA has pioneered electrical supply across national boundaries in
Western Africa. It has supplied power to CEB starting in 1972 and to the
Ivory Coast since 1984. The interconnection has worked well and VRA, CEB,
and Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI) support a West Africa
Power System Interconnection (WAPSI) within the Union des Producteurs,
Transporteurs et Distributeurs d'Energie Electrique d'Afrique (UPDEA).
WAPSI, in a first stage, would aim at linking the power systems of Benin,
Ghana, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, and Togo. The presently interconnected
facilities would then be linked to the 330 kV Nigerian grid via a 330 kV
transmission line from the Ikeja West substation near Lagos to the Volta
substation in Ghana. A Danish/Swedish joint venture was retained to
prepare an interconnection feasibility study, which was financed with a
Scandinavian grant, and was completed in July 1984. The African Develop-
ment Bank (AfDB) was the executing agency and CEB supervised the study,
with the Bank providing advice. The feasibility study concluded that a
West Africa interconnection (including Nigeria) was economic. The study
assumed that gas would be available to supply the 1,320 KW Egbin thermal
plan near Lagos. However, the pipeline project to supply that plant is now
stalled and this situation casts doubts on the timing of interconnection
with Nigeria.
Other Energy Resources
36.       Wood, which is plentiful in the high forest zone that covers
about a third of the country, supplies some 73 percent of Ghana's energy
needs directly or in the form of charcoal. Almost all Ghanaian households
depend on it for cooking. In addition, wood fuels are used in local food
processing, post-harvest drying, and beverage-making. Projections of the
forest resource balance through 1990 show an annual allowable cut of about
1/  Based on average size household of 5 persons.



- 13 -
23 million m3. This should accommodate commercial and fuelvood demands
that are expected to reach 7 million m3 and 17 million m3, respectively, by
the end of the period, although regional shortages of fue'lwood may arise,
particularly in the extreme northeast.
37.       Petroleum products, especially diesel and gasoline, meet 17
percent of energy demand, primarily in the transport sector, although the
power subsector includes a small number of diesel units.  Ghana used to
import all its petroleum. Consumption declined by 20 percent in 1980-84
because of the economic stagnation and the scarcity of foreign exchange.
Recently, however, reserves of an estimated one to five million barrels
have been discovered, with potential for larger finds. About 650 barrels a
day, representing 5 percent of domestic oil consumption, are presently
being recovered from the Saltpond field, which is 100 km west of Accra and
15 km offshore. Recent drillings in the Tano Basin, near the border with
Ivory Coast, have confirmed the existence of additional reserves, estimated
at about 50 million barrels. The Government is actively promoting further
exploration.
38.       Natural gas has been found in conjunction with petroleum at both
Saltpond (where 10 million cubic feet per day are presently flared) and
Tano (where reserves are roughly estimated at one trillion cubic feet), but
the economic merits and financial costs of exploiting the gas reserves
remain to be established. As a first step, the Government has hired
consultants to see whether or not the reserves are sufficient and suffi-
ciently exploitable to justify inter alia a gas fired generating plant,
which is one promising use for the gas.
Financial Condition of ECG and VRA
39.       ECG's charter mandates it to operate commercially and to set
electricity charges at levels sufficient to cover annual operating costs,
debt servicing requirements, a reasonable proportion of expansion and
additions to reserves. VRA, similarly, must operate commercially and make
profits. But the actual financial performance of Ghana's power sector has
fallen short of these goals in recent years. During the early 1980s high
inflation produced sector cost increases which were not offset by timely
and adequate rate increases; industrial demand for electricity declined and
the sector lacked needed foreign exchange. Simultaneously, droughts
reduced hydroelectric generation, thus further reducing the sector's
revenues, particularly its foreign exchange earnings. Successive cedi
devaluations associated with the economic recovery program introduced in
April 1983 resulted in additional cost increases and rendered the sector's
financial position critical. Thus, after two years of excellent earnings
resulting from substantial rate increases (183 percent for 1981-82), ECG
did not cover its costs in 1983, when Government-approved rate increases
yielded only 14 percent more revenue while the utility's cost grew by about
92 percent, mostly as a result of devaluation of the currency. This
revenue shortage produced a liquidity problem which was further aggravated
by serious billing and collection problems. Capital expenditures were
limited by ECG's inability to obtain foreign exchange. For similar reasons



- 14 -
VRA's earnings. too, deteriorated steadily after 1981, in part because its
foreign exchange earnings from power exports dried up along with the waters
of the Volta Lake. The 15 percent rate increase granted to VRA on its
domestic sales in 1983 and increases in the cedi equivalent of its exports
(resulting from devaluation) did not come near to making up a 240 percent
increase in VRA's total costs. 1/  The resulting liquidity problems,
aggravated by ECG delays (up to 14 months) in paying its bills for pur-
chased power, rendered VRA unable to contribute to its 1981-1984 investment
program with internally generated funds and in 1984 it had to obtain a
US$6.0 million short-term credit to meet its foreign exchange requirements,
which has since been fully repaid.
40.       To remedy the situation, the Government increased both ECG's and
VRA's electricity rates by about 500 percent in 1984 and authorized further
increases of about 20 percent for 1985 and 15 percent for 1986. These
measures, taken in the most adverse circumstances, have signifi-
cantly improved the sector's finances: ECC expects to have achieved a 20
percent rate of return and VRA a negative return but with a clearly
improving trend. Furthermore, in July 1984 the Government renegotiated its
1962 contract with VALCO, which purchases electricity from VRA for its
smelter. The new contract provides for a substantial increase in the price
VALCO pays for power and for periodic renegotiation of the price in the
future. The contract gives VRA considerable flexibility to supply
customers other than VALCO, particularly the export markets to EECI and CEB
and to manage its reservoir in such a way as to maximize sales and minimize
the likelihood of spilling water in wet years. The effect on revenues from
the change in contract is significant. For the maximum contracted amount
(2,760 GWh/year) VRA's revenues from sales to VALCO would be about US$39
million, at an aluminum price of US$0.55/pound, as against US$15.5 million
under the previous agreement. Similarly, tax revenues will increase
significantly.
41.       Asset Valuation.  While VRA has revalued its assets annually in
accordance with earlier Bank Group agreements, ECG's asset valuation has
not been updated since end-1976. In the absence of current indices, ECG's
fixed assets were valued using the indices employed by VRA, but this may
result in a substantial understatement of ECG's assets, which include a
large share of local costs. During negotiations, it was agreed that (a)
after completion of the tariff studies to be carried out by the
consultants, ECG would update the revaluation of its assets in accordance
with a method acceptable to the Association, and (b) VRA would continue to
revalue its assets annually (Section 4.02, draft ECG and VRA Project
Agreements).
1/   On the other hand, the cedi devaluation produced an exchange gain of
about ¢520 million on the dollar account VRA was allowed to keep at a
commercial bank in New York.



- 15 -
42.       Billing and Collection.  ECG's receivables, mainly from Govern-
ment and parastatals, amounted to 11 months' billing in 1983, which is the
major reason for ECG's overdues to VRA (over ¢450 million). Under a plan
agreed vith ECG, the Government has begun to settle its overdues but in
order to ensure timely implementation of the plan, assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that it (as well as ECG and VRA) will take all
necessary measures to settle arrears by December 31, 1986 and all other
bills within 60 days from the billing date. Further, ECG agreed to improve
its collections so that by December 31, 1986, it will have no more than 120
days of billing outstanding and by December 31, 1986, and thereafter, no
more than 90 days of billing. (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft ECG and VRA Project Agreements). ESB is assisting in
improving ECG's receivables to no more than 3 months' billing by end-1987.
As ECG's finances improve and its overdues to VRA are paid, VRA would in
turn be able to reduce its own receivables to 2 months' billing by
end-1986.
43.       Rate Setting.  During negotiations, ttie Government, ECG and VRA
have agreed among themselves to ensure that ECG's diesel generation costs
are computed and invoiced to VRA in a manner acceptable to the Government,
VRA and ECG for recovery in the charges to all bulk power consumers. This
is necessary to ensure equity in sharing generation costs among all users.
In addition, to ensure that additional costs will be passed on to consumers
on time, both ECG and VRA would incorporate fuel and bulk power cost
adjustment clauses in their tariff schedules and power supply contracts,
under procedures to be agreed with IDA (Section 4.04, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
44.       Tariffs.  Despite the recent rate increases, Ghana's retail power
tariffs are low compared to those of most other West African countries,
which reflects primarily Ghana's cheap hydro generation. ECG and VRA will
hire consultants, to be financed by the proposed credit, to carry out a
study of the sector tariffs. This study should, among others, recommend an
appropriate financing goal for the sector such as setting electricity
prices at the long-run marginal cost, or at a level sufficient to cover
costs, debt service, working capital and an adequate contribution to its
expansion program. If present electricity rates were kept constant, they
would provide surpluses. The study will also make recommendations on the
allocation of surpluses between retention at the utilities or payment of
dividends. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that ECG's and
VRA's rates would be adjusted annually pending the results of the tariff
study so that they are the higher of the rates to be put into effect as
from January 1, 1986, or sufficient to cover operating expenses, debt
service and working capital and produce a contribution to investment of not
less than 25 percent (Section 4.05 (i), draft Development Credit
Agreement). If these rates are maintained, the two utilities would not
need borrowing in 1985-90 other than the proposed Credit and cofinanced
loans.  VRA would draw down the remaining funds on existing loans (mostly
contractors' and suppliers' credits) to finance its ongoing construction
program. Agreement has also been reached at negotiations that after
completion of the tariff study, but not later than June 30, 1986, the



- 16 -
Government would agree with ECG, VRA and IDA on appropriate financial
objectives and earnings requirements for ECG and VRA and adopt criteria and
a schedule for adjusting ECG's and VRA's rates acceptable to IDA (Section
4.05 (ii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Although the financial projections show an improving trend for
the two utilities, their expansion programs need to be kept under review.
Therefore, during negotiations, the Government agreed that no new
investments exceeding US$25 million in the aggregate (approximately 5
percent of sector assets) would be carried out in the electric power sector
until the completion of the proposed project (Section 4.06, draft
Development Credit Agreement). Agreement has also been reached at
negotiations with ECG and VRA that they would not incur long-term
borrowings (and short-term borrowings would not exceed 10 percent of cash
operating expenses in any year) without IDA's concurrence if annual net
revenues were less than 1.5 times their maximum future debt service
requirement in any year, including service on the debt proposed to be
incurred (Section 4.05 (a), draft ECG and VRA Project Agreements).
Bank Group Involvement with the Energy Sector
46.       Power generation and distribution have been major foci of Bank
Group lending since 1961, when the first of three Bank loans to VRA was
made for US$47 million to assist in financing the Volta River Hydroelectric
Project (Akosombo). A second loan for US$6 million for the Volta Expansion
Project was made in 1968 and a third for US$39 million in 1977 to help
finance the Kpong Hydro Project. The first two projects were completed
satisfactorily. The Kpong project experienced cost overruns of about 140
percent in local costs and 14 percent in foreign costs; it was completed in
1982 after a two-year delay.   The cost overruns were due to Ghana's poor
economic condition, which caused shortages and delays in obtaining locally
purchased equipment and materials, and to the very high inflation that
prevailed at that time.
47.       rnree projects financed by three IDA credits and one IBRD Loan
have assisted the expansion of ECG's distribution system: credits of US$10
million in 1968, US$2 million in 1971 and US$9 million in 1977 together
with a loan of US$9 million. The first two projects were completed satis-
factorily. The Third Power Project was completed in 1981 after a
three-year delay, due in part to Ghana's economic situation and in part to
ECG's poor project administration. Although the project was successful in
providing new facilities, it was not successful in improving either the
management or the operations of ECG.
48.       A broad IDA-financed Energy Project (Credit 1373-GH for US$11
million) was approved in May 1983. This provides for various studies,
training and technical assistance relating to oil and natural gas explora-
tion and production. Under the project, offshore areas have been made
available to the petroleum industry and several proposals for explora-
tion/production have already been received from international oil compa-
nies. The project also provides for experts, training and equipment to



- 17 -
assist NEB in preparing and attracting foreign financing for renewable
energy projects, which might help to lessen Ghana's dependence on petroleum
imports. In 1984, imported oil cost about US$240 million, or over 40
percent of Ghana's estimated export earnings. The Energy Project also
includes the financing of a study to devise a sound pricing policy and a
mechanism for revising prices in the petroleum field in nrder to reduce the
strain on Ghana's foreign exchange earnings. A plan of action based on the
study is expected to be available by December 31, 1985, although petroleum
prices have already been raised substantially following the exchange rate
adjustments of 1983, 1984 and 1985.
49.       A Petroleum Refinery Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1446-GH for US$6.9 million) approved in March 1984,
provides assistance for the preparation of detailed plans to rehabilitate
Ghana's sole refinery, improving its energy and operating efficiency. It
also provides technical assistance for studies to revamp and rationalize
the refinery to ensure that its production matches domestic demand. In an
effort to improve overall efficiency of the country's use of energy, the
project aims to help improve the product distribution system, focus on
reducing ocean freight losses, and upgrade the crude oil handling system at
Tema Harbor as well as at the refinery.
50.       The principal objectives of the Bank in the power sector in Ghana
are to support overall economic recovery, resumed growth and balance of
payments viability, through actions to improve service reliability, reduce
the cost of electric power supplies and support economic grid extensions
within Ghana, while at the same time reducing the demands imposed by the
sector on Government resources and maintaining the sector's export
capability. The Bank's past lending has helped Ghana achieve some of these
objectives and, by assisting VRA, has helped build one of the better
managed utilities in West Africa. The Bank has not, however, succeeded in
introducing institutional and organizational reforms in ECG which would
have helped improve reliability and reduce costs. ECG's weaknesses mainly
stem from (i) its non-accessibility to foreign exchange directly other than
the Government's general budget allocation, and (ii) its lower status among
the parastatal enterprises and consequent lower salaries it could offer to
its employees. These two major problems are addressed under the proposed
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was prepared by ECG and VRA with the assistance of
consultants financed with a Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$680,000 granted by the Bank Group in August 1983. The project was
appraised initially in March 1982, with updating appraisal missions in May
1984 and November 1984. The lapse between original appraisal and
processing of the proposed credit is due to changes in country priority
considerations and resource constraints. Negotiations were held in
Washington in August 1985; the Ghanaian delegation was headed by



- 18 -
Mr. E. Appiah Korang, PNDC Secretary for Fuel and Power, and included
representatives from VRA, ECG and the Ministry of Justice. Supplementary
data on the project are presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
52.       The project seeks to support the Government's economic recovery
program by providing more reliable electric service. Since most of Ghana's
industry relies on public service electricity, the value of a reliable
supply to the nation's economy is considerable. The project would achieve
this objective by overcoming the most serious operating problems existing
in the coastal grid and various isolated systems owing to inadequate
maintenance since the late 1970s. These operating problems encompass
system overloads with concomitant energy losses and voltage reductions,
curtailment of service because of frequent outages of old thermal
generating equipment (particularly in isolated systems) and frequent
breakdown of transportation equipment, which not only involve high
maintenance costs but also totally disrupt ECG's maintenance and operation
schedules.
Project Description
53.       The proposed project encompasses a two-front approach to the
sector's problems. First, it will finance the physical rehabilitation of
the ECG and VRA systems in order to permit the sector to provide reliable
service by 1990. The ECG component was defined using as reference a report
prepared by British Electricity International (BEI) in July 1980, the
Bank's draft appraisal report of March 1982 on a proposed project for ECG
and the findings of a May 1983 Bank mission. The VRA component was defined
by VRA staff assisted by its consultants and reviewed by a Bank mission in
November 1984. Second, it will underwrite substantial work by the
ElectrIcity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB) to provide the basis for reorgan-
ization and rehabilitation of the sector. ESB has already begun its work
under the PPF advance noted earlier.
54.       The project provides for rehabilitation of a 30 MW diesel plant
at Tema and 15 VRA substations, along with other physical improvements,
vehicles and spare parts, housing, technical and managerial training, and
various technical studies. Housing for ECG professionals would be
essential to retain and attract qualified personnel in view of ECG's
limited fringe benefits and lower reputation than most of public
enterprises. The project also provides for about 168 man-months of
consultant services for a sector study and assistance in implementation of
the project. ESB has been selected and will carry out the study in three
stages. In the first stage, a diagnosis of the sector with recommendations
on future sector organization, and in particular an analysis of the merits
of merging ECG and VRA, will be reviewed. It will also include a work
plan, staffing plan and schedule for execution of the second stege. The
first stage has been completed and the results are being compiled. The
Government and IDA will review ESB's work and, based on its
recommendations, seek to agree on the appropriate measures to be taken;



- 19 -
Government implementation of these measures would start by December 31,
1985 and proceed in accordance with a timetable acceptable to IDA (Section
4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement). In the second stage, expected
to require 6 months, existing legislation governing the sub-sector, and in
particular legislation governing the management and operation of the
utilities, will be reviewed to recommend amendments, if necessary, to
provide for the new sector institutional arrangements. This will include
review of the utilities' organizations, objectives, functions, financial
practices, maintenance programs, and training provisions. Ir will also
define the roles of the responsible Ministry, the Board, the chief execu-
tives, the department heads and their deputies including as appropriate job
descriptions, delegation of responsibility and reporting requirements. The
Government and IDA will review ESB's recommendations before December 1986
and agree on a schedule to carry out the necessary measures. For the third
stage, a detailed institutional rehabilitation plan will be
prepared--including attention to manpower problems, training and accounting
procedures. This should lead to building strong, efficient and autonomous
organizations capable of meeting the country's electric power requirements
economically.
55.       The project also includes site investigations, engineering, and
bidding document preparation for a VRA thermal plant to complement existing
hydra generation. According to an expansion plan prepared by Acres Inter-
national Ltd. (Canada), a small amount of thermal capacity-50 to 100
NW-would increase substantially the amount of energy VRA could sell while
minimizing spilled water, by providing a standby source to meet energy
deficits in dry years. Such a thermal capacity would also provide backup
for VRA in case the Nigerian portion of the hoped-for Nigeria-to-Ivory
Coast West African Power System Interconnectlon (WAPSI) does not
materialize.
Costs
56.       The project's estimated cost is US$48.8 million; the estimated
foreign exchange cost amounts to US$41.2 million (84.4 percent), based on
June 1985 prices and exempt from taxes and duties. A breakdown of costs by
major expenditure categories is shown in the Credit and Project Summary.
Allowances for price increases in foreign costs have been incorporated in
the cost estimate using annual percentages (1985: 5.0 percent, 1986: 7.5
percent, 1987-90: 8.0 percent), and for local costs (1985: 20 percent,
1986: 15 percent, 1987-90: 10 percent). Physical contingency allowances
averaging 10 percent have been used; this is considered appropriate in
relation to the type of project involved and the degree of accuracy of the
base cost estimate.
Project Financing
57.       The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign cost of ECG's
rehabilitation equipment and materials, housing, anticorrosive treatment of
VRA's Akosombo plant, the foreign cost of the technical assistance and
training overseas of ECG's staff, and studies that will be needed by both



- 20 -
ECG and VRA. Co-financing of US$10 million is expected from the Italian
Government to finance the foreign exchange cost of VRA's rehabilitation
program. VRA will contribute US$3.2 million in foreign exchange from its
own foreign exchange earnings. Cofinancing is being sought to reduce VRA's
burden in the foreign exchange contribution to the project financing, and
initial responses from an official donor is favorable. ECG and VRA will
provide local currency and services equivalent to US$4.9 million and US$2.7
million, respectively, and will bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Government would relend US$25.6 million equivalent out of the proceeds of
the credit to ECG and US$2.4 million equivalent to VRA under subsidiary
loan agreements on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including
interest at 8.8 percent per annum for 15 years, with a grace period of up
to 5 years (Section 3.01(b) and (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements will be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
58.       ECG's generation and distribution equipment and materials and
motor vehicles would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for equipment,
materials and vehicles will be grouped to the maximum practicable in order
to permit bulk procurement. All transactions in excess of US$100,000
equivalent will be subject to prior approval by IDA. Office equipment
would be procured through international shopping and motor vehicle spare
parts for ECG's existing fleet through direct purchases from the original
manufacturers. Housing for ECG would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) and under guidelines acceptable to the Bank. Anticorrosive
treatment of Akosombo will be contracted through international shopping.
The Tema plant rehabilitation and the bulk of VRA's substation equipment
and materials would be purchased under the procurement requirements of the
cofinancing source. Only those consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the
Assoctation will be selected. The proposed procurement arrangements are
summarized in the following table:



- 21 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement -
(USS Million)
Inter.   Direct                    Total
Project Element         ICB     LCB   Shopping Purchases Other   N.A.         Cost
ECG
Generation
equipment and                                               3.5               3.5
materials              -         -         -         -       -        -       -
Distribution          11.3                                                   11.3
(11.3)      -         -        -        -        -    (11.3)
Automotive vehicles    7.0                                                    7.0
(7.0)      -         -        -        -        -     (7.0)
Spares                                             0.8                        0.8
-      (0.8)      -        -     (0.8)
Office equipment                          0.5                                 0.5
-        -       (0.5)               -        -      (0.5)
Housing                         1.0                                           1.0
-      (0.8)       -        -        _        _      (0.8)
Technical assistance                                                 5.0      5.0
and training         -        -         -         -       -      (4.8)   (4.8)
Studies                                                              0.3     0.3
_        _         _        -        -      (0.3)   (0.3)
VA
Generation                                2.1                                2.1
-        -       (2.1)      -        -        -      (2.1)
Distribution                                               16.9              16.9
Studies                                                              0.4     0.4
- =    -           -        -        -      (0.4)   (0.4)
Xi2a    _L          (2^i)    L2 ~ -            (-~    £Z2S1
a/ Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed with the proposed credit.
Some procurement methods change on account of source(s) of cofinancing.
Project Implementation
59.         Implementation of the project is expected to begin by January 1,
1986, and to be completed by December 31, 1990. The executing agencies
would be ECG and VRA. ESB, which has been contracted by the Government for
the sector organization study, will also assist ECG to prepare technical
specifications and tender documents for the rehabilitation of its system.



- 22 -
VRA, assisted by its own consultants (Acres of Canada), will carry out its
part of the project.
Disbursement
60.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:  100
Percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, materials, office
equipment, vehicles and spare parts, including foreign costs for their
installation, when necessary, and anticorrosive treatment of Akosombo; 80
percent of total expenditures for housing; and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for consultant services and training of ECG's staff.
61.       The estimated schedule of disbursements is based on the Sectoral
Disbursements Profile in West Africa. Necessity for, and arrangements to
establish a Special Account for ECG, to be maintained in foreign currency
in a commercial bank, were agreed during negotiations.
Audit
62.       Audit satisfactory to IDA will continue for both ECG and VRA.
Environment
63.       The project is not expected to produce any adverse environmental
effects.
Status of Project
64.       ESB began its work in May 1985 through a PPF advance granted by
the Bank in August 1983. Preparation of bidding documents has begun.
Project Justification and Risks
65.       Reliable public service electricity supply is vital to Ghana's
economic recovery in view of the increased dependence on the system by the
mining and smelting and other export-oriented industries as well as by
agriculture and wood processing. While the project would not involve
system expansion, it would provide reliability in the infrastructure
necessary for such a service. In addition, ESB's work and follow-up action
would provlde the basis for the reorganization and institutional rehabili-
tation of the sector. Furthermore, physical rehabilitation under the
project can help postpone Ghana's need to invest in new thermal capacity.
According to a system expansion plan prepared by VRA's consultants, all new
capacity to the year 2000 would have to be thermal, since none of the hydro
options is economic. The attractiveness of thermal generation has been
enhanced by recent offshore discoveries of gas. In all expansion schemes
prepared by the consultants, however, rehabilitation of the Tema diesel
plant would defer by about two years the need to invest in new thermal
plants. For the long term, the Tema plant would serve as standby and
complement Ghana's hydro capacity.



- 23 -
66.       For all of the rehabilitation equipment no reasonable alternative
exists. Some substation superstructures will be redesigned to improve
their performance and some electrical apparatus will be replaced with
modern and more reliable units. The return on investment was estimated as
the discount rate that equates the present values of the benefits and costs
associated with the 1985-1990 ECG and VRA rehabilitation project. Benefits
were measured by the forecast revenues from the sales of electricity at the
average retail level, using the tariff in effect in December 1983. Since
tariffs were adjusted upwards by 500 percent, it is conservatively
estimated that the return for the project is about 30 percent, which
compares favorably with the opportunity cost of capital for Ghana,
estimated to be between 12 percent and 15 percent.
67.       The financial health of the sector depends heavily on VRA's
ability to supply VALCO and utilities of neighboring countries and this, in
turn, depends on a replenished Volta Lake. The recent drought has severely
curtailed VALCO's supplies. With higher than normal rainfall the lake
could recover its normal operating level within the next four years or so,
but this cannot be assured.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government of
Ghana and IDA, the draft Project Agreements between IDA and the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana and between IDA and the Volta River Authority, as well
as the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Diractors separately.
69.       In addition to the special features of the Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreements referred to in the text and listed in
Secrion III of Annex III, special conditions of credit effectiveness would
be the execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and,
respectively, ECG and VRA (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
September 6, 1985



- 25 -                                                      ANNEX I
. A -  L V. IA                                     Page  1 of  6
CHAM                   - SlClaL IDmoAT     DATA SHC8T
smlzucYus    wm u  aw uLST                     aas  a
VACLqT         LCY tO1OtS A*1A104          DLEINOtl
inba&      1970;!h  z%sD%iTdi       SOUTH OF SAMAA        AFUICA S. uF SAH
AMA  (T10a1  WQ. M1)
TOTAL                              231.5      231.5       236.5
AGRICULTURAL                       62.3        11.4        02.2
GW PR CWITA (OI)                       ..          ..        310.0            23.8                     11*3.1
sTcy cE3fIO  PER CAIPTa
('tAcIAms or OIL EUIVALENT)        71.0       150.0      15600               62.3                     581.5
POUlnTano,MID-TaY1 (TIIOUSAMS)   e63L.0      8620.0    12815.0
URBAN PoPULATION (1 of TOTAL)      23.3        19.1        35.1              20.1                      32.0
P0PUIATIOH WOzCatoISs
POPULATION IN :-A 2000 (NElL)                            23.1
STATIONAM POPULATION QILL)                               64.0
POPULATION mCNEflI                                        2.0
POPULATION n nSM
PER SQ. Itt.                     25.6        36.1        53.7               33.2                     65.1
PER SQ. 11. AGtR. LAND          109.7       140.3       197.5             112.8                     124.s
POPULATION ACt STUCTURE (C)
0-14 YRS                        4".S        45.7        47.9               46.0                     4S.e
1564 Y1S                         52.8        51.5        48.6              50.6                      51.5
65 AND AOE                        2.5         2.6         2.4               2.9                       2.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TDTAL                             4.4         2.3         3.1               2.8                       2.9
rlaw                              9.2         4.6         5.0               6.4                       5.l
C*IDE BI313 RATE (PE TNOUS)        50.2        50.2        49.3              47.2                      47.0
Cm. OcATm tATC (PER THOUS)         17.3        14.3        10.0              17.A                      1.O
0055 PROROOUCTION LATT              3.5         3.0         3.4               3.3                       3.2
FAMILY PLUAI[N
ACCEPrORS. ANNEAL (t0OUS)          ..         4.3        33.5 IC
USERS CZ of MaID  N)              ..          1.5        £0.0 7i            3.3                       6.4
30= MD  1ISUS
INDIX OF FOOD POD. PMR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0       101.0        63.0              63.3                       2.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF RNOUXRfENErS)     97.0        97.0        69.0              R7 7S 98.5
PROtEINS (CRAPIS P  DAY)         46.0        50.0        40.0              519,                      55.6
OF 1U:R ASNnAL AND PULSE         L3.0       17.0        15.0 Ic           [.7.                      10.5
C1a (fAM  1-4) DEATH RATE          2s.6        21.4        12.0              23.1                      16.6
LFE aXPEcr. AT 3RU3 (YEEaS)        4.S         53.2        5R.9              47.8                      52.0
NFANT  MR. RATE (PR THOUS)        143.0       122.0       97.0              119.5                    106.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER S(OP)
TOTAL                             ..         35.0        47.0 1.           27.1                      42.4
URIAN                             ..          e.0        72.0 r.           63.3                      6.5
RURAL                             .1. 4.0                33.0 l77          1q.3                      35.8
ACCeSS TO EXCRETA OISPOSAL
CZ OF PnPULATION)
TOrAL                             ..         55.0        27.0 h            26.5                      23.9
URAN                              ..         92.0        47. To-           65.4                      57.7
RURAL                             ..         40.0          o 77              .8                      20.7
POPULATION PU PUSICIAN          21W50.0    12920.0       7160.0           27901.7                   11791.7
PO. PER NIJUSINg PERSON          5410.0 If   1070.0       770.0 jj         3305.4                    2459.3
POP.   RIIOStTAL MM
TOTAL                           1290.0      760.0       sa.o             1273.6                     901.1
URA                             290.0 oF   770-0        830.0 Ic          426.2                     306.8
RURAL                         4739U.0 7     890.0       73O0 Wc          3292.5                    4371.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED         ..          ..          ..                ..                      27.2
AVERAC  SUE OF WUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ,.          4.7
URmN                              ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
AURe  N0. OF PERSOSIR"0
TOTAL                              ..         ..
ERa.~~~~                          ~ ..  ...
7RRAL                             ..          ..
murnT OF  wLLxCS  rIT  ELEcr.
TOTAL                              *          *.
AL.                               ..          ..
SDA                                ..                     ..



-26 -                                                         ATiNEX I
T A   Le 9 ]A                                       Page 2 of 6
GHANA                   -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GIANA                                 REVERENCE GROUPS (IIELGNTED AVERAUES) /a
lDSr                     (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
IIECENT         LOW INCOME AFRICA         MtIDDLE I tcmE
1960/b-     19701b ESTINILT,.         SOUTH OF SAARA        AFRICA S. Ou SANARA
£DIEATICN
ADJUSTED ENROLLIEIT RATIOS
PRINARTY   TOTAL                   311.0       64.0        76.0               67.d                       95.7
.4ALE                   52.0        73.0        85.0               77.6                      100.0
FEMALE                  25.1        54.0        66.0               54.9                       83.2
SECONDARY  TOTAL                    5.0        14.0        34.0               13.5                       17.3
MALE                     9.0        21.0        42.0                17.9                      25.0
FEMALE                   3.0         8.0        26.0                9.1                       14.8
VOCATIONAL (: OF SECONDARt)           3.3        23.3         1.9                13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIDAUt                            31.0        30.0        31.0               44.9                       41.1
SECONDARY                          16.0 IL     17.0        22.0               27.4                       25.5
COUSOWIO
PASSENIR CARS/THOUSAD POP            3.0         4.6         b.8 /c             3.d                       2U.1
RAOW RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          42.8        81.6       170.9               55.8                      107.8
TV RECEIVERSITKOUSAND POP             U.1 l/b     1.9         5.9                2.b                       20.8
XEUSP-.PER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             29.9        58.0        3U.9 Id             5.0                       18.4
CINEMA A.IIAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.6         2.2         0.4 7d             0.5                       0.4
LAlDD PDOZ
TOTAL EAIOR FORCE (TIOUS)          2931.0      3424.0      4522.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.6        42.1        41.3               34.2                      36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.0        58.0        53.0 /a            77.5                       54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0        17.0        20.0 To             9.7                       18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
.OTAL                              '2.9        39.7        35.6               39.3                       36.8
H1ALE                              50.0        46.6        4Z.1               50.9                       47.1
FEMALE                             36.0        33.0        29.4               28.1                       27.2
ECODOMIC DEPE!%DENCY RATIO            1 1         1.2         1.4                1.3                        1.3
incUn DISTRIIUTIOU
PEHCEIrT OF PRIVATE INCuME
RECEiVED BT
HIGHEST S: OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST ZO OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 20  uF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS
POUR=  TAIP CROWS
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .                     307.0 Ii          .'J65.5                     590.7
RURAL                                                     io 150.0 1        i95.0                      275.3
ESTIMATED RELATVE POVERTa INCOMP.
LEVEL (CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     156.0 /f           113.1                      545.6
RUIRAL                                                    130.0 Ti            67.6                     201.1
ESTIMATAED POP. BELOW A850LUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBAN                                                                         36.6
RURAL                                                                         61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
H O T E S
/a  The graup averages !or eacb indicator arm population-mibced arctIemtLc  _a-h   (bverge of coancrl.n
swng the indicarors depends on avaIlabiLLty of data and is not unifoto
/b   Unlean otbewise noted, 'Data for 1960" r.f.r to any year beween 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970  between
1969 and 1971t and data for 'Mast Ree nc EacAtite" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977;  /d 1979;  /e 1980; /f 1962; A  PubLic *dscaaton only;  lb  1964; /A 1978.
JU15, 1985



ANNEX I
-27-                                                    page 3 of 6
DIFJNmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATObS
Note Although the dis uai drawn fromn sources genily judged the mot authonta veand reliabk it should    be noted tht they may not be inteumuonally
comparable beause of the lack of standardized definitions and concept used by diferent counuue in collecting the data. The data amre.  thels useful w
descrbe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certa major dflferences betwen rcountrtes.
I The refierence groups Are E I I the same country group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher averae income than the country
I roup of the subject country (esxepi for -High Income Oil Exporters group where -Middle lncome North Africa and Middle East is chosen because ofsItronger
soco-cultural ifimtmul. In the reference group data the avees ate populauon weighted arithmetic mean For each indicator and shown only when majority
of the counmies an a group hb data for that indicawto Since the coverage ofcountuies among the indicatan depends on the availablity ordata and i not uniform.
cauuon mus beexecis in reating averges of one indicator to another. These averaes are only useful in comprng the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.I                                            Cruid Brth Rate (per thoNudI-Number of live births in the year
Teral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year populationw 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crud Det Rare (per t:hwandj-Number of deaths in the year
Agrirultural-Eslimate or agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen prdens or to  GrCss Repr.dweno Rae-Aveage number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated bv same conversion method as World      Fusily Paunnmiig-Acceprors, Annua frhuandse-Annual num-
Bank- Arlas I(1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                          berof acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPlTA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercal primarv energy (coal and lignite.        Famuly Pliiig-Users (percent Of I-rTked immet-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricatv) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception W:omen
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VIfAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Total Popution. AMid-Year (tousands -As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index of FPeoductiou Per Capita f1969-71 - 100)-Index of per
Urhan Popnlatdoa (percent of toral)i-Ratio of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commodities. Producuon
population; different definitions of urban areas mav affect compar-  e
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar;
Popution Profecions                                               which are edible and contain nutnrents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in Year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    exduded: they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil !ecds.
made for each economv separatel%. Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. 3nd
total population by age and sex. fertilit rates. mortality rates. and  litestock products. Aggregate production of each country is SOaed
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               her Capita Spply ofCaloris (percet ofreqairenenrsj-comput-
Stattonary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countr%
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supphes comprise domestic pruduc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(ne reproduction rate= I . In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirement. were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal acts' it%
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmentai temperature. body6 weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing I 0 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population .fomentun-ls the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita Supply of Proein (gras per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tume that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The mometntum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which It g8rams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at repace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popurin Densiy                                                    avenge for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third Wbrld Food
Per sqJkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Pswein Supply From Animal and PuIse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricadtural land-Compured as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses sn grams per da:.: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 da;a.                             1970 and 1977 data.
IhpmSIlon Age Sractare (percext)-Children (0-14 vears). work-     Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per rhousand)-Number of dcath!, of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same dge
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countnes data den'6ed
PopUmMI Growth Rare fpercentj-rorat-Annual growth rates of        from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-o0. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Popuation Growth Rate (percent)-arbaur-Annual growth rates       Life Expectayy ar Birth (yearsn-Number of years a ncuorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalitn for all people



- 28  -                                         ANNEX  I
-~ 28 -Page 4 of 6
at the time Of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;    PApd-teacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Toal students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dat.                                        rolled in primry and secondary levels divided by numbers of
teant MorraUty Ratv (pr thousad)-Number of infants who die      teachers in the correponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Warer tp eret  Of popudon-totraI  when, id       Pasenger Cars (per thuad popuilarito-Passenger cars com-
rural-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) with reconable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons. excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (incudes treated surface water or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaninated water such a that from protected   Radio Receivers (pr thousdad popuadon)-All types of receivers
boreholes. sprinp and sanitary wells) a percentagn of their rspec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tive populations. In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
locatd not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect. data ror recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countnes abolished licensing.
reasonable acces would imply that the housewife or memben of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part oa the day  TV Recevers (pw  thousandpopauladonj-T V receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needL                            to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acces to Excrete Disprsn (percent of populadon--tofal, urban,   in effect.
and rral--Number ot people (total. urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percents of their respective populations.   .     qersppr Ckculon (per thousand populdlx)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the couection and disposal. with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, or human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted prinarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Population per Phys^iia-Population divided by number of prac-   Cinema Annual Attendance per Capita per Year-Batsd on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number Oa tickets sold dunng the year. induding admissions to
Populaion per Xursing Peson-Population divided by number of     dnve-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and remale graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
Popudon per IHospial Bed-oeal, urban. and mrural-Population     Troal Labor Force (thousandsj-Economically active persons. in-
Populaton per  ospita Bed-toal, urbn. andcluding armed forces and unemploved but excluding housewives.
(total, urban. and rual) divided by their respective number of
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establhshments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fele (percent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  orce.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricadrre (percenti-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.]  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: i960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Industry (percent)J-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or    factunng and electncit. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided b% the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and i9so data.
Participation Rate (percent j-tobal. male, andfemak-Participauon
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Average Se of Household (persons per household -rotd, urban,    as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
and rural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tnese are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectng age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Awvrage .Number of Persons per Room-total, urban. and rural-    Economic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room It all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population athose aged 15-6-i
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellings with Ekecrricir)-toral. urban. and rwal-  Percentage of Total Disposable Income (both in cash and kindi-
Conw.entional dwellings with eetricity in living quarters as percen-  Accrung to percentile groups of households ranked b% total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
Adjusted EmUror Rados                                           The following estimates are *ery approximate measures of poverty
Prmary sCdwol - total, mk and femal-Gross total. male and      leves. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primarv level as percentages of  Estnated Abscldte Poverty Income Level W .SS per capitra)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age w be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minima! nutntionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimared Rektive Poverty Income Level fUSS per cepirai-urban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural re  ive poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from thet rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - raoti, male and femal-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populain Below Absolute P-verry lncome Level (per-
mary instrion; provides general. vocational. or tcacher training  centj-rban and rural- Percent of population i urban and rural
instrutions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollmeni (percent of secondarvy-Vocational insutu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-29-                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EOMC  DDCAI
CMPER CAPA IN 1983: US$32D 11
NATEQ=  PwMUr Dn 1983 I/                                                    AM& RAE OF GIL
cc caintaic Prices)
CdIi HU.               Z                      1978-63
GQI at Maiket Prices                        191,934              100.0                     -2.78
Gkos Dstic Investzzt                         12,476                6.5                     -5.89
Gioss Heatlz    Savixg                        5,356                2.8                    -19.72
Qzrut Acamt Balance                           7,120                3.7                       -
hqvt of Goods, NES                            9,542                5.0                     -7.12
liwart of Goods, NVS                         15,788                8.2                    -11.63
UflT AM LAB RFOR
Output In 1983                          Lakor Force, 1983
Cedis    .              Z                Mil.         I
Agdicnlture                                   101,886               53.1             2.584        57.2
inihtzy                                       13,372                 7.0             0.691        15.3
Services                                      76,671                39.9             1.242        27.5
Total                                        191,934             A 100.0             4.517       100.0
wViEifr FINA*
___C.traCebtl GDvenwt__
CedilHU.    Z of GDP ln 1983 2/ Cedis Ml. Z of GDP in 1984 2/
Total Revemn  and Grants            10,241.0             4.8              22,641            6.9
Total Pcpenixture and Net ITAdlzg    15,177.5            7.0              27,485            8.4
Overali Deficit (-)                  4,936.5            -2.2               4,844           -1.5
MM, CREIT AND PRC
1977    1978    1979    1980       1981    1982   1983       1984
I'*xuy and Qmsi-amney              3,044   5,131   5,942   7,949   12,029   14,837 20,803
BiDi  readit to Public Sector      3,203   5,636   6,537   8,480   14,043   17,140 2Q,392
Bm*k Credit to Private Sector        560      739      796      940    1,342    1,558  2,838
(Prcentages or Indec  subers)
eky and Quaui-money as I of GDP    27.3    24.4    21.1    19.4    15.7    16.7    9.8
Gencral Prfice Index (1977-100)    100.0   173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6  1062.4  2367.4 3,307.3
I/ Staff fatimzes.
if Ratio  a cal=zated C a reczly rvnd aP sris.



_30 _
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BAIAN  OF PAHENS                                        NWa      SE MU[S (AVE"           1979-1983)
1983     1984 1/
Trade   a                      -131       -61           C;1o Berni & Products        528.6       69.5
.pots f.o.b.                  440       566           Cold                         135.3       17.8
Tiorts c.i.f.                 571       627           Re!sIdal 0il                  31.5        4.1
Tuber                        28.7        3.8
Lissibles (Net)               -284      -225           MJectrcity                     9.9        1.3
Services                     -280      -227           Nwr,gse                        8.1        1.1
Trasfers                       -4       2.0           Dlaucid                        7.3        1.0
AU Otber Goods                10.7    .  1.4
Cirrit Balance                 -415      -286
Capital hcczmts                                         Total                        760.1      100.0
GMts                           114      141
OEficial Capitall (Net)        67        88            EX2       DM. XCEMBM  1983
Private Capital (.%t)          45        59
Arrears Paymmt..              -34    -70.0                                                  US$ mil.
Overall Balance 2/             -243      -121           Total Q 0stad±rg anid
Dinbzspd MT                         1,095.1
Goss        tial                                        Total Qztamizg and
Reserves (Eid of Period)      214       391             Disburse Inc. diort-tem             1,370.9
~r Si*ICE RAno Kt 1984 3/                Z
Febrary 1973 - Jie 18, 1978                             Total Outs-tandirg and
US$1 - ¢1.15                                     Disbsed NH&Z                           34.8
Total (utstandirg and
Since kig. 26, 1978,  US$1  - t 2.75                      Disbused izc. paymet a r               46.5
Sine April 21, 1983, U!S$1  - 924.692
Since Ocr. 10, 1983,  US$1  - e30.00                    IDlTmh LEDIN  (Dwerber 31, 1984)
Sine Marci 25. 1984, US$1  - 035.00
Since hAgust 25, 1984, US$1  - ¢38.50                                                 IBiD      IDA
Since December 3, ]984,US$1   - M5O.D0
Since April 19, 1985, US$1  - ¢53.00                    Cutstaniling & Didsursed     125.40    187.70
Uodidmrsed                    8.39    194.37
-a, *md.
tUdisbursed                133.79   382.07
I/ PoiIx onal est±es subject to change.
2 Includes error= and cuissonvs.
3/ As Z of exports of goods and nm-factor services.
July 1985



_ 31 _NM4                                     11
THE STAZJS OF BANK GRECP OPERAIONS IN GHAN& 1/
STAXDIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of June 30. 1985)
Loan or                                                           ---Amount (USSKillioo)--
Credit    Fiscal                                                  --Less Cancellation-- 2/
Number   Year       Borrower                 Purpose             Bank  IDA Undisbursed
Eight loans and thirteen credlts fully dLsbursed                  146.4 107.4
1122-GH   1975      Post & Telecom-
munLcations        Telecommunications         23.0            5.1
1291-GH 3/1976      Republlc of Ghana   Upper Region Ag.Dev.       21.0            0.7
901-GH   1979      Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                       19.0      3.1
1009-GH   1980      Republic of Ghana   Volta Region Ag.Dev.             29.5     22.8
1029-GH   1980      Republic of Ghana  Third Highway                     25.0      3.0
1170-GH   1981      Republic of Ghana   Railway                          29.0    13.6 4/
1327-GH   1983      Republic of Ghana   Reconstruction CIMAO              9.3      8.6 Z/
1342-GH   1983      Republic of Ghana  Water Supply                      13.0      6.9 41
1373-GE   1983      Republic of Ghana   Energy Project                   11.0      8.8 Z/
1393-GH   1983      Republic of Ghana   Reconstruction Import Cr.       40.0       8.2 4J
1435-GH   1984      Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation           40.1    32.3 _1
F009-GH   1984      Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation       -   35.9      32.2 4/
1436-GH   1984      Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation
Technical assistance          17.1     12.6 4/
1446-GE   1984      Republic of Ghana   Petroleum Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance        6.9      5.3 41
1498-GE   1984      Republic of Ghana   Second Oil Palm                  25.0    21.6 4/
1564-GE   1985      Republic of Ghana   Accra District Rehab. 5/         22.0     22.0
1573-GE   1985      Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstruction    4
Import Credit 51              60.0    60.0
1601-GH   1985      Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabilitation and
MaLntenance 5/       ;;       40.0    40.0
Total                                        190.4  530.2  306.8
of which has been paid                        61.2   4.1
Total now outstanding                        129.2  526.1
Amount sold                   0.4
of which has been repaid     0.4              0.0   0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA                 129.2  526.1
Total undisbursed                               5.8  301.0  306.8
1/   The status of the projects listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
Bank/ IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
4/  Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on June 30, 1985.
5/  Not yet effective as at June 30, 1985.



- 3. -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
GEANA
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
The Association has been working on processing the power system
rehabilitation project in Ghana since March 1982. However, it was
interrupted by uncertainties in the general policy environment. With the
introduction of the economic recovery program in 1983, work on the project
commenced again in May 1983 and the project concept was somewhat modified
to accord with the priorities of the economic recovery program.
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project        27 months
(b)  Project prepared by                 :   ECG, VRA and IDA
Cc) Date of first IDA mnission to
consider the project                     March 1982
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission           :   May 1983 and
November 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations :   August 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness            January 1986
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) After completion of the tariff studies to be carried out by
consultants, ECG to update revaluation of its assets in
accordance with a method acceptable to IDA, and VRA to continue
revaluation of its assets annually (para. 41);
(b) Government, ECG and VRA to settle arrears by December 31, 1986
and all other bills within 60 days from the billing date (para.
42);
(c) Fuel and bulk power cost adjustment clauses to be incorporated in
ECG and VRA tariff schedules and power supply contracts (para.
43);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) ECG and VRA to be allowed rate increases pending completion of a
tariff study and, on the basis of the study, Government to adopt
financing goals for sector and criteria and schedule of rate
adjustment (pars. 44);
(a) No new investments exceeding US$25 million equivalent in the
aggregate would be carried out in the electric power sector until
the completion of the proposed project (para. 45); and
(f) Government to initiate sector organization measures by
December 31, 1985 and carry them out according to a schedule
satisfactory to IDA (para. 54).



IBRD 17663R
U R K I N A
G H A N A
SERVICE AREA AND
MAIN INSTALLATIONS
POWER SECTOR
c                                                                    33 V I-b"dl
II v 1--hwi
S,
M
I v p y
c
T 0 G 0
L
qj
r)
n               h cr                        r,
ra
mw.-"
.,.-p-                               In
r
0 r
n
o
LOME
r n
L
o n
A-d,d r-"7
N
GM A N_X
HaIFAm.
A66GST 1985



