Report No. 581a-TUN                                                         FILEG COPG
Appraisal of the
First Urban Sewerage Project
Tunisia
January 15, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar = 1000 millimes
US$1                  = D 0.425
D 1                     US$ 2.35
D 1 million           = US$ 2.35 million
NEUSURES
1 kilometer          (km)      = 0.621 miles
1 millimeter         (mm)      = 0.03937
1 liter              (1         = 0.264 US gallons
1 cubic meter        (m')      = 264 US gallons
1 hectare            (ha)      = 2.h71 acres
1 square meter       (m2)      = 10.76 square feet
1 square foot        (sq. ft.) = 0.09 square meter
G.WSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ONAS    - Office National d'Assainissement
SONEDE  = Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux
ONTT    = Office National du Tourisme et du Thermalisme
WHO     = World Health Organization
USEPA   = United States Environmnental Protection Agency
ICN     = Ingénieurs Conseils Néérlandais
OTTEEFP = Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens à l'Etranger,
de l'Emploi, et de la Formation Professionnelle.
GOVERNMSNT OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....            ........................   i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION . ....         .......................... ........        1
II.    THE SECTOR ................            ........................
A.   Water Resources.     . .................. .                       1
B.   Sewerage ...................................... .                 2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....... ...............                                3
A.   Location of Project              ............................     3
B.   Existing Water Supply and Sewerage .............                  4
IV.   THE PROJECT ENTITY . ........................ ....... .                 4
A.   Background        ................................                4
B.   Organization and Management ..... ............                    5
C.   Operations ........................................... ... ....   5
D.    Investment Program .............................                 6
E.  - Accounting System ...... ..............                          7
F.   Billing and Collecting  .            ........................     7
G.   Insurance .......            ...............................      7
V.   THE PROJECT .........................................                   7
A.   Description of Project .....           .................          7
B.   Construction Schedule  .............. . ............              9
C.   Project Cost . ......................... *.........              10
D.   Financing Plan .......... . ........               ....   , ,    il
E.   Project Administration and Execution  , ..               .       12
F.    Role of the Greater Tunis District ...... .......    13
G.   Land Acquisition ...............................                 14
H.    Procurement . ....................................              14
I.   Disbursement .    ............................                   15
J.    Environment and Health             .........................    15
K.   Monitoring and Key Project Indicators                   .........  16
Messrs. W.J. Cosgrove (Water and Sewerage Engineer) and G. Heyland (Financial
Analyst) wrote this report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                  Page No.
VI.  FINANCE .................................................... 0  17
A.  General ........... .........                       17
B.  Revenues ...................... .     ........      17
C.  Governnent Subsidy ........... . .................... .    18
D.  Financial Performance ................... ......    20
VII.   JUSTIFICATION .........................................    21
A.  The  Project   .   ..........................  ........6  21
B.  Greater Tunis Pollution Control Measures ......    21
C.  Sewage Collection (Evacuation) System .........    22
D.  Engineering Services and Technical Assistance .    22
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .................. ..................    23
ANNEXES
1. Previous Loans and Credits
2. Existing Sewerage Systems
3. Incidence of Some Waterborne Diseases
4.  ONAS Projected Organization Chart
5. Probable Schedule of Take-over of Sewerage Systems
6. Development of Water and Sewerage Connections
7. Project Description
8. Construction Schedule
9. Estimated annual Project Expenditures
10. Technical Assistance to Local Construction Industry
11. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12. Monitoring Criteria
13. ONAS - Projected Income Statements 1975-1981
14. ONAS - Projected Cash-Flow Statements 1975-1981
15. ONAS - Projected Balance Sheets 1975-1981
16. Assumptions for Financial Projections
17. Economic Justification
18. The Tunis District
MAPS
IBRD 11174 Location of Project Zone
IBRD 11175 Land Areas Bordering Lake of Tunis
IBRD 11211  Tunis District, North Coastal Part
IBRD 11212 Tunis District, South Coastal Part
IBRD 11213  Tunis District, Central Coastal Part



APPRAISAL OF
THE FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
TUNISIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since 1968, Tunisia has advanced significantly in the supply of
potable water to its citizens, and by 1978, all settlements of 500 or more
population are expected to be served. l/ The Bank Group has made a signifi-
cant contribut4on towards this progress through a Credit (209-TUN in 1970) and
two Loans (581-TUN in 1969 and 989-TUN in 1974) which have a total value of
US$48.5 million. By comparison construction of sewerage facilities has re-
ceived little attention to date. Only half the population supplied with
water is connected to sewer systems. These systems are incomplete, overloaded,
and badly maintained, if at all. Less than half the sewage collected reaches
treatment plants, and these plants are either overloaded or malfunctioning.
ii.       In Greater Tunis, including the capital of Tunis, 84% of the popula-
tion is connected to the public water supply system, and 90% of these are es-
timated to be served with some form of sewerage.  However, the collection system
is incomplete and overloaded, is hampered by design defects, and is poorly main-
tained. More than half the sewage collected is discharged to receiving bodies
of water with little or no treatment. In rainy periods, sewage overflows onto
the streets in the Medina and in the low-lying areas of the city. In the hot,
dry period, sewage stagnates in the sewers and in the Lake of Tunis. The Lake
is polluted beyond hope of self-purification, and emits foul odors throughout
the District.
iii.      To help alleviate some of these problems, an Urban Sewerage Project
is proposed for partial Bank financing. A national sewerage authority, Office
National de l'Assainissement (ONAS), has been created to undertake a national
program of sewage works. It would be responsible for this Project, and for
the sewerage component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project being financed
by the Bank. Following an agreed timetable, ONAS will assume responsibility
for design, construction, operation and maintenance of sewerage systems through-
out the country. The consultants who prepared the feasibility studies will
design and supervise construction of works in Greater Tunis. During the for-
mative period, the management consultants who prepared the study for establish-
ment and organization of ONAS will provide technical assistance. The World
Health Organization, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, and
the Federal Republic of Germany will provide additional technical assistance.
1/   The remaining rural population, which constitutes 28% of the total
population, lives in isolated dwellings which cannot be served by
public distribution systems.



- ii -
iv.       The principal component of the proposed project is the first stage
of sewerage for the Greater Tunis District including: additions to the trunk
sewer systems; extension, renewal, and renovation of local sewers; sewage treat-
ment; and measures to prevent pollutants from entering the Lake of Tunis in
future. Part of a program of urgently needed sewer system renewals and renova-
tions in other communities to be taken over by ONAS during 1975 and 1976 is
also foreseen. At the request of the Government, technical assistance is in-
cluded to aid in the establishment of ONAS; to prepare feasibility studies of
sewerage projects to be included in the next Plan; to study potential develop-
ment opportunities around the Lake of Tunis; and to determine measures to in-
crease the capacity of the Tunisian construction industry.
v.        The project cost is estimated to be US$86.11 million, including
physical and price contingencies. The Government would borrow from the Bank
US$28 million, or 50% of the foreign exchange requirements if most works were
undertaken by foreign contractors. If the Tunisian construction industry
undertakes 60% of the civil engineering works, the Loan would be about 71% of
the foreign exchange requirements. Retroactive financing of US$400,000 is
proposed for expenditures incurred after June 30, 1974 toward the foreign
exchange cost of consulting services, the purchase of sewer maintenance equip-
ment, and the costs related to establishment of ONAS. The balance of the
foreign exchange and the local currency costs would be met by the Government.
vi.       Major civil works and equipment contracts will be put to tender based
on international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guide-
lines for Procurement". A preference margin of 15% or customs duty, which is
less, is proposed for domestic equipment manufacturers. Construction of the
major works is expected to begin in the second half of 1975 and to be completed
by the end of 1978.
vii.      In the past, sewered proprietors have paid 16% of the cost of instal-
ling fronting sewers and a property tax for sewer maintenance which is equiv-
alent to about 8 millimes/mJ (US$0.07/1000 gal) of water consumed. In the
future, the Government intends that fronting proprietors pay the full cost
of the installation of a fronting tertiary sewer. Credit facilities would be
made available to finance house connections and extensions for low-income pro-
prietors in already built-up areas. The Government has proposed a sewerage
tariff, based on water consumption, charging 8 millimes/m3 3(US$0.07/1000 gal)
to domestic consumers with a consumption of more than 40 m peS quarter, 23
millimes/m3 (US$0.20/1000 gal) to industry and 15.5 millimes/m (US$0.14/1000
gal) to the tourism industry. This tariff, together with municipal levies on
property, is sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs. Government
would subsidize sewerage by a contribution equivalent to 16 millimes/m3
(US$0.14/1000 gal) in 1975, 25 millimes/m3 (US$0.22/1000 gal) in 1976 and 40
millimes/m3 (US$0.36/1000 gal) from 1977, based on water consumption by
sewered customers, but a program would be established to review from time to
timne the environmental and economic policies inherent in such a policy. The
tariffs would be revised, if necessary, to ensure that the internal cash ratio
remains above 4.0%, a reasonable level to ensure adequate cash-flow.



- iii -
viii.     The main elements of the proposed project represent the least-cost
solution from among several alternatives.  The extensions, renewals and renova-
tions of the existing sewer systems will improve health and environment by
carrying sewage away from the built-up areas where it is a hazard and a nuisance.
Benefits from the pollution control measures including trunk sewers, sewage
treatment and interceptor canals are: increased land values of vacant property
adjacent to the Lake of Tunis 1/; revenue from the sale of treated sewage and
sludge for irrigation and fertilizer; and savings from reducing fish-kill
caused by pollution. The internal economic rate-of-return for the pollution
control component is 24.9%.
ix.       Agreement having been reached on certain issues with the Government
of Tunisia, ONAS and the Tunis District the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$28 million to the Government. Under normal sewerage utilities prac-
tice, an appropriate term for the loan is 25 years, including 4 years of grace.
1J   Acquisition by the Government of land not owned by the state is a Loan
condition. This will ensure that these benefits accrue to the population
at large.






TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Governrment of Tunisia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a project including sewerage for Greater Tunis, the renewal of sewerage sys-
tems in other municipalities to be taken over by the national sewerage author-
ity in 1975 and 1976, the establishment of the national sewerage authority,
studies of sewerage projects to be included in the Fifth Plan (1977-1981), and
studies of measures to improve the capacity of the Tunisian construction in-
dustry. The project, estimated to cost US$86.11 million, is included in the
Fourth Plan (1973-1976) and forms part of a Goverr.ment program designed to
implement sewerage schemes in 21 urban communities by 1978. Feasibility
studies were prepared by Coyne and Bellier (France)/ICN (Netherlands) with
the Department of Urban Hydraulics acting as the Government Agency. The
study on the establishment of a national sewerage authority was carried out
by SETEC (France)/SOTUETEC (Tunisia).
1.02      In September 1973, a pre-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Thys,
Williams and Cosgrove visited Tunisia and participated in a review of the
inception report prepared by Coyne & Bellier/ICN, agreeing on the scope of
the project and its basic design criteria.
1.03      An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Cosgrove, Heyland and
Williams appraised the project in May and June 1974. Following review by
the mission of the program of works and recommendations for the establishment
of a national sewerage authority as prepared by the two groups of consultants
the project components were defined, the construction program established
and cost estimates prepared. This report is based on the mission's findings
and on information obtained from the Governrnent and its consultants.
II. THE SECTOR
A.   Water Resources
2.01      Since the total water resources of the country are limited, in
future years Tunisia may have to consider recycling of treated sewage, as an
economic alternative to desalination of brackish or sea water. Demands for
irrigation and for potable water could exceed the total available supplies of
fresh water in the southern part of the country by 1980.  Studies are pre-
sently underway on the possibilities of irrigation with brackish waters, on
possible mixing of brackish water with water of better quality to produce
greater quantities of water with higher but still acceptable salinity, and
on irrigation with raw or treated sewage.  A major study by consultants fi-
nanced initially by a Bank technical assistance grant, has produced a Master



- 2 -
Plan for northern water resources which envisages major storage works and a
canal to transport mixed fresh and brackish water east to Cape Bon. One of
the assumptions of this study is that treated sewage from Tunis will be used
for irrigation.               _
2.02      The production and distribution of potable water are the responsi-
bility of Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE),
the national water authority which is an autonomous public utility established
for this purpose on July 2, 1968. The creation of SONEDE improved planning
and implementation of works, thus accelerating the provision of water to
individual houses, particularly in the small urban centers and semi-rural areas.
The population of the areas served by SONEDE is expected to continue increas-
ing, from 3.31 million in 1971 to 4.35 million in 1982. By 1978 SONEDE will
be supplying all settlements having populations of 500 or more. The remaining
rural population, constituting 28% of the country's total population, lives
in isolated dwellings which cannot readily be served by public water distri-
bution systems. They may be ultimately supplied by systems of public wells
and fountains.
2.03      Bank assistance to the water supply sector has been provided through
two Loans (581-TUN in 1969 and 989-TUN in 1974) and a Credit (209-TUN in 1970)
which contributed towards financing of water supply and distribution systems
throughout the country. The Bank is also assisting in the financing of a
tourism infrastructure project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN) which includes
water supply and sewerage components (Annex 1).
B.   Sewerage
2.04      By comparison with public water supply sewerage has received little
attention. In 1960 nine municipalities had some form of partial sewer system.
By 1974 the number of municipalities with sewerage had increased to 20. How-
ever the limited extent of these systems can be judged from the facts that the
total replacement value of all systems existing in 1974 was estimated at about
US$77.5 million and the depreciated value at about only US$32 million. These
figures compare with US$190.2 million replacement value and US$127.0 million
depreciated value for water supply systems.
2.05      However, although the number of municipalities with some form of
sewerage has increased even in these municipalities the sewer systems are
incomplete, overloaded and badly maintained, if at all. The eight sewage
treatment plants in the country are either overloaded or malfunctioning. This
situation exists because the prime responsibility for the provision of sewer-
age services has been with the communes who lacked both the funds and the
trained personnel to provide the necessary service. There are only about 25
technicians and workers having skills related to sewerage and 20 of these are
employed by the City of Tunis. The lack of clear division of responsibility
among the ministries, the municipalities and three state agencies resulted
in an absence of decision-making for sewerage at the national level. The
only effective measures undertaken in recent years are those related to im-
provement of sewerage facilities in the tourist zones as part of the tourism
infrastructure project financed in part by Bank Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-
TUN. A more detailed description of the existing sewerage installations and
the past sector organisation is given in Annex 2.



-3
2.06      On August 3, 1974, a Law was signed by the President creating a
national sewerage authority, Office National de l'Assainissement (ONAS). The
new authority is responsible for the planning, operation, maintenance, renewal
and construction of all sewerage works located within the limits of the communes
and within tourism or industrial development zones. The organization of this
office is well underway and it is expected that this centralization and clari-
fication of administrative authority and responsibility will make possible
greatly accelerated investments in the sector as foreseen by the current Plan.
The Ministry of Public Health will continue to exercise quality control on the
country's pollution control effort. In addition, ONAS will work closely with
ONTT and the Greater Tunis District in the planning of works to be undertaken
within their respective jurisdictions and responsibilities.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Location of Project
3.01      "Greater Tunis" is composed of 13 municipalities, including the
capital city of Tunis, covers an area of about 16,000 ha (62 sq. mi.), and
has a population estimated at about 950,000 in 1973 and growing at a rate of
about 4% per year (See blap 11174).  In 1972, the Governnent of Tunisia formally
established the Greater Tunis District to plan, coordinate and supervise public
investment at the metropolitan level. The District is under the authority of
a Board of local representatives chaired by the Governor-Mayor and a ministerial
level council chaired by the Prime Minister exercising supervisory decision-
making responsibilities. The District will, in the course of the next two
years, define, analyze and program the initial investment needs for implementing
a strategy for urban land use in the Tunis metropolitan area.
3.02      The Lake of Tunis is a body of salt water approximately seven kilo-
meters in average width and one meter in depth (Map 11175). A causeway along
the ship channel divides the north part of the Lake (where most of the sewage
is discharged) from the south part. Although a series of openings at La
Goulette and Sebka de la Princesse connect the Lake with the Gulf of Tunis
and the Mediterranean Sea, these do not provide sufficient area to permit
tidal flushing to carry the wastes to the sea or even to provide sufficient
oxygen to prevent putrefaction of the wastes. Since 1962 at least nine in-
dividual experts and consulting firms have studied the condition of the Lake
and means to restore it to a healthy condition. There is no doubt that the
Lake is highly eutrophic and is rapidly filling up with carbonaceous material
and becoming a salt lake filled with septic solids. One expert has ventured
that unless the discharge of wastewater from Tunis (treated or untreated) is
stopped, the Lake will cease to exist within another 100 years. At present
there are substantial fish kills each summer resulting from the absence of
oxygen. The unpleasant visual effects of floating solids and year long dis-
colored water have completely discouraged recreational use, and the foul
odor emanating from the Lake at times permeates the entire District.



-4-
B.   Existing Water Supply and Sewerage
3.03      Greater Tunis is well-served by public water supply.  About 84% of
the population is presently connected to the system and SONEDE expects that
this will rise to 90% by 1980. Per capita consumption in Greater Tunis is
38 m3/year compared to an average of 23 m3/year throughout the country. The
relatively better water supply is among the principal factors accounting for
the fact that the incidence of reported typhoid and paratyphoid (and presuma-
bly other water-borne diseases) is only half of the average rate throughout
the country (Annex 3). The present sources of supply will meet the needs
of the District until about 1981. SONEDE's investment program provides for
construction of additional supply works beginning in 1979 to ensure continuing
adequate supply to Greater Tunis.
3.04      The most important elements of the existing sewerage system are
shown on Maps 11211 to 11213. Despite the existence of a rather complete
system which serves about 90% of those connected to the public water supply
system, the sewerage of Tunis is far from adequate. The deficiencies of the
system are felt during the hot summer months when unsavoury odors emanate from
the Lake of Tunis and some of the older parts of the City and in winter during
the rainy season when the sewers overflow and sewage stagnates on the streets
in the low-lying central area of the City (Annex 2).
IV. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A.   Background
4.01      ONAS is the nationwide authority for all sewerage and waste water
treatment operations. Due to the lack of competent services for these opera-
tions in the authorities hitherto responsible (paras 2.04 and 2.05) the Govern-
ment initiated the establishment of this authority to centralize and build up
the technical, financial and managerial resources urgently needed to develop,
operate and maintain this sector efficiently (para 2.06). ONAS is fully owned
by the State and responsible to the Ministry of Equipment.
4.02      The legal and organizational framework for the establishment of
ONAS was worked out by consultants (SOTUETEC/SETEC-Tunis/Paris) in cooperation
with the Ministry of Equipment. The law establishing ONAS provides for the
creation of an industrial and commercial public institution with financial
autonomy. It specifies that ONAS will carry out the following functions
in all municipalities and tourist and industrial development zones:
i.   administration, operation and maintenance of all existing
sewerage installations;
ii.   renewal and new construction of urban sewerage works and
waste and storm water collectors;



iii.   construction, operation and maintenance of waste water
pumping stations and treatment plants; and
iv.   treated effluent disposal.
B.   Organization and Management
4.03      The proposed organization of ONAS is shown in Annex 4.  The Board
of Directors is composed of representatives of several Minis tries involved
as well as of the municipalities, the District of Tunis, the National Tourism
Office (ONTT) and SONEDE. Management is expected to be delegated to a Pres-
ident/Director-General and a Deputy Director-General with three subordinate
directors for Finance and Administration, Engineering and New Works, and Oper-
ations. Since ONAS will operate throughout the country, four regional bran-
ches for operations are proposed. A competent President/Director-General
has already been appointed following consultation with the Bank. Agreement
has been reached that the Bank will be consulted re the initial appointments
of qualified candidates to the positions of Deputy Director-General and the
Director for Finance and Administration, and for any change in these three
positions during project execution.
4.04      The initial staff of ONAS will be selected from the competent per-
sonnel of the Division of Urban Hydraulics (Ministry of Equipment) and from
the existing sewerage agencies in Tunis and Sfax, and will increase, year by
year as ONAS expands, to a total of about 1,300 in 1981. In order to attract
trained and skilled personnel at all levels, a special personnel statute, pro-
bably similar to that applicable to SONEDE personnel, would be created to give
incentives to ONAS personnel through adequate working conditions and salaries.
In addition, since the necessary skills do not exist in the labor market in
sufficient numbers, ONAS would establish a training division reporting directly
to the President/Director-General or to the Deputy Director-General. The
training division will prepare a detailed training program including number,
category and levels of personnel to be trained and detailed information on the
ccontent of the program and resources required for its implementation. ONAS
would submit this training program to the Bank for comment within one year
of the date of the Loan Agreement. Agreement has been reached with the Gov-
ernment and ONAS covering a personnel statute acceptable to the Bank and the
training program.
C.   Operations
4.05      In order to enable ONAS fulfill its functions the law provides that
all installations shall gradually be handed over by the Governnent to ONAS.
A time-schedule for the take-over in accordance with the assumed physical
capacity of ONAS has been established (Annex 5). Agreement has been reached
that transfers will be executed and timed in accordance with a definitive
schedule to be submitted to the Bank within four months and that any changes
will be subject to Bank approval. The issuing of a Decree transferring the
installations within the District of Tunis and the Tourism Zones to ONAS would
be a condtion of Loan effectiveness.



4.06      In view of ONAS' nationwide activities the operational responsibili-
ties will be decentralized in the four regional branches. Maintenance in
smaller towns and tourist centers will be carried out by mobile units in
order to economize in personnel and expensive modern equipment.
4.07      For assistance in starting up its operations, ONAS has engaged the
same consultants (SOTUETEC/SETEC) who have already worked out the general lines
of organization and operations. They will furnish advice on hiring, training
personnel administration, accounting and standard engineering practices. Fi-
nancing of these consultants' services is included in the project cost. Other
technical assistance will be provided by:
(i)  the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
which will provide specialists to follow the operations of
the pilot stabilization ponds at Rades and advice on their
applicability to Tunisian conditions (para 5.03);
(ii)  the World Health Organization (WHO) which through financing
by the Government of Sweden will provide sanitary engineering
consulting services and overseas training for ONAS personnel;
and
(iii)  the Federal Republic of Germany which will finance the equip-
ping of a central laboratory for sewage analyses,and provide
its original staffing as well as training of Tunisian laboratory
technicians.
The program of technical assistance for the operations of ONAS and for the
construction industry study (para 5.11) was discussed by the mission with the
UNDP Resident Representative.  No funds are presently available from UNDP for
this assistance and they have been provided for in the Loan at the request of
the Government.
D.   Investment Program
4.08      ONAS' investment program for the period 1975 through 1981 is very
ambitious. Its objective is to provide by the end of this period a complete
national sewerage service to all urban inhabitants connected to the water
system. The program will in fact provide complete sewerage service to 64% of
the total population, compared with only 48% receiving inadequate service at
present (Annex 6). The monetary value of these investments, of which the
project is a part, totals D 77 million in addition to about D 19 million esti-
mated value of the existing installations in the municipalities and tourist
areas to be taken over by ONAS and contributed in kind by the Government.
This program of investments may be divided as follows:



-7-
Components                                D Million            %
Greater Tunis                                 33             43
Tourism centers                                10            13
Renewals and extensions in other towns         29             38
Establishment of ONAS and equipment             4              5
Studies                                         1              1
Total                                    77            100
E.   Accounting System
4.09      The financial needs of ONAS - capital and operation - will be formu-
lated in an annual budget to be approved by the Government. A commercial
accounting system will provide for control. The new organization includes
sufficient personnel to carry out all accounting duties and the necessary in-
ternal audit. Agreement was reached that ONAS will also have its accounts
certified by an independent external auditor satisfactory to IBRD.
F.   Billing and Collecting
4.10      Since sewerage charges will be based on water consumption it is
clearly desirable to have the utmost cooperation between ONAS and SONEDE in
billing such charges. Agreement was reached that a joint billing and collect-
ing procedure will be carried out by SONEDE. A formal agreement acceptable
to the Bank between ONAS and SONEDE would be condition of effectiveness.
G.   Insurance
4.11      Motor vehicles, motorized equipment and the transport of goods fi-
nanced by the Bank loan will be insured. Since ONAS is a completely state-
owned authority, all other risks will be covered through self-insurance by
the State.
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Description of Project
5.01      The major component of the project consists of facilities to improve
the existing inadequate sewerage of Greater Tunis. The sewer network will be
renewed and expanded and collector sewers constructed to intercept the dry-
weather flows and carry them to sewage treatment plants. An existing sewage
treatment plant will be renovated and expanded and two new sewage treatment
plants built. Interceptor canals will be constructed to prevent stormwater
overflows from polluting the Lake of Tunis.  These facilities are shown on
Maps 11211, 11212, and 11213, and are described in greater detail in Annex 7.
The project works include:



- 8 -
A first stage of sewerage for Greater Tunis including:
(i)  additions to the trunk sewer system, including gravity
sewers and pumping stations (total length about 60 km);
(ii)  the renovation and increase in capacity of the Cherguia
treament plant and the construction of new plants on
sites on the North Coast and at South Miliane, serving
population equivalents of 160,000 and 500,000 persons
respectively;
(iii) renovation and renewal of existing sewers (75 km);
(iv)  extensions to the sewer system to serve built-up areas
presently without service (90 km);
(v)  piping of open ditches carrying mixed storm-water and
sewage and storm-water evacuation channels in the Lake
of Tunis and two lift stations to pump the storm-water
into the navigation canal.
(vi)  part of a program of urgently needed sewer system renewals
and renovations in other communities to be taken over by
ONAS during 1975 and 1976;
(vii)  assistance toward the establishment of a national sewerage
authority including:
(a)  technical assistance re hiring, training, personnel
administration, accounting and standard engineering
practices;
(b)  purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance
and training of operators for this equipment;
(c)  purchase of office equipment, furniture, calculators
and drafting equipment;
(viii) feasibility studies of sewerage projects to be included in
the Fifth Plan in sufficient detail to serve as the basis
for requests for international financing;
(ix)  a study of the Thunisian construction industry to determine
means of increasing its capacity and an associated training
program (Annex 10);
(x)  preparation of land-use studies and Plans d'Amenagement
for the Tunis Lake area.
5.02      The Greater Tunis sewerage component is the priority phase of works
designed by the consultants Coyne & Bellier/ICN to meet the needs of Greater
Tunis until 1988. This phase of the works has been carefully selected in order



-9-
to economically resolve the most urgent existing problems while at the same
time maintaining as much flexibility as possible so that they can be adapted
to later phases of the works in accordance with future development in Greater
Tunis. Thus the trunk sewers to be built in the priority phase have been
sized for the capacity which they will require in 1988. The treatment plants
north of Tunis and at South Miliane will be designed to permit their later
expansion to meet the needs of the regions they would serve beyond 1988. The
existing Cherguia treatment plant, following renovation and the addition of
capacity to the secondary treatment units, will have the capacity to treat
the sewage of a population equivalent of 800,000 persons, twice the population
for which it was originally designed. Although there is no room for further
expansion on the Cherguia site, this procedure presents the most economical
solution because it makes use of existing facilities whose original cost has
already been depreciated.  When future development warrants it, the flow from
the collector in Highway X (Map 11213) will be diverted to a fourth treatment
plant to be built in the plain between Ariana and the Sebkhet Er Riana, permit-
ting the Cherguia plant to remain in service without overloading.
5.03      The consultants carried out detailed studies of the costs of com-
parable sewage treatment methods in Tunisia. Their analysis showed that
treatment in stabilization ponds would be the least-cost solution provided
that lining of the ponds was not required and that the land required could be
acquired by the Government without increased costs caused by speculation.
However the performance of these ponds varies with local conditions. Of
particular concern to the consultants and the Government is the possibility
that the ponds may become septic and give off odors such as those now emanat-
ing from the Lake of Tunis. Fortunately the appropriateness of stabilization
ponds for sewage treatment in Tunisia was already considered under the tourism
infrastructure project and a pilot plant of this type, partly financed by Bank
Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN, is presently under construction. The opera-
tions of the pilot plant will be followed not only by the consultants for the
tourism infrastructure project but also by doctorate students and Professor
W. Oswald from the University of California under a grant from USEPA (para
4.07). Since the results from the pilot plant will not be available before
the end of 1975, and in order to permit construction of the treatment plants
to begin as soon as possible, the consultants are being asked to proceed with
the design of plants using stabilization ponds as well as for oxidation ditches
of the Carrousel type and for conventional activated sludge. The final tech-
nical decision will be postponed until after the results of operating the
stabilization ponds have demonstrated their applicability to the North Coast
and South Miliane sites. Bid documents will then be prepared for the selected
treatment process.
B.   Construction Schedule
5.04      The renovation and expansion of the Cherguia treatment plant was
scheduled to begin before the end of 1974 and to be completed by mid-1976.
Preparation of bid documents for the major collection works was also scheduled
for completion by the end of 1974. These works should therefore begin during
the third quarter of 1975. Completion of all elements of the project is
scheduled for the end of 1978 (Annex 8).



- 10 -
C.   Project Costs
5.05      The total project cost is estimated at US$86.1 million (D 36.6 mil-
lion) including allowances for contingencies and expected price increases
(Annex 9). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$56.0 million
or 65% of total cost. This estimate is based on the expectation that all
major construction contracts will be won by foreign finms because of con-
straints on the Tunisian construction industry. To the extent that the pre-
sent situation in the Tunisian construction industry could be corrected, the
foreign exchange costs of the project could be reduced by as much as US$16.4
million partly offset by an increasing local component of US$9.5 million so
that the peoject cost in total would be less by US$6.9 million (para 5.11).
Furthermore, the estimate is based on the conservative assumption that the
sewage treatment process selected will be that employing the most mechanical
equipment (para 5.03). If pilot plant results demonstrate the acceptability
of stabilization ponds as the treatment process the foreign exchange costs
might be reduced by US$5.1 million. Cost estimates are based on forecast
December 1974 construction costs. They include 15% for physical contingencies
and a total of 40.4% for price increases over the duration of the project;
price increases were calculated on the basis of an 8% per year inflation rate
in Tunisia and the varying annual inflation rates for internationally procured
equipment and civil engineering works which are detailed in Annex 9. Project
costs are summarized below:
PROJECT COSTS
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
-- D millions -US$ millions---
1. Trunk Sewer System (including
gravity sewers and pumping
stations)                           1.98   3.82   5.80   4.65   8.98  13.63
2. Sewage Treatment:
Renewal of Cherguia                 0.11   0.95   1.06   0.25   2.25   2.50
North Coast and
Oued Miliane Plants                 1.14   2.40   3.54   2.69   5.62   8.31
3.  Surface Drainage                      0.94   1.82   2.76   2.21   4.28   6.49
4.  Extensions                            0.81   0.93   1.74   1.90   2.19   4.09
5.  Renewals:  Tunis          - 1.74
Other Towns - 1.64
3.39     1.97   1.42   3.39   4.63   3.34   7.97
6.  Establishment of ONAS                 0.24   0.46   0.70   0.56   1.08   1.64
7.  Land Acquisition                      2.00     -    2.00   4.70       -    4.70
8.  Engineering Services:
(a)  Design and Supervision          0.24   0.96   1.20   0.56   2.26   2.82
(b)  Sfax study                      0.01   0.04   0.05   0.03   0.09   0.12
(c)  Studies for Fifth Plan          0.15   0.60   0.75   0.32   1.43   1.75
(d) Construction industry
studies                        0.04   0.16   0.20   0.12   0.36   0.48
(e) Land use studies (Greater
Tunis)                         0.01   0.04   0.05   0.03   0.09   0.12
Base Cost Estimate                   9.64  13.60  23.24  22.65  31.97  54.62
9. Phvsical Contingencies
(15/ for 1-6)                       1.08   1.77   2.85   2.54   4.16   6.70
10. Expected Price Increase              2.08   8.47  10.55   4.89  19.90  24.79
Total Expected Cost of Project    12.80  23.84  36.64  30.08  56.03  86.11



- 11 -
D.   Financing Plan
5.06      A Bank Loan of US$28 million to the Government of Tunisia is pro-
posed, of which US$27.7 million would be onlent to ONAS under the terms and
conditions of the Bank Loan. The remaining US$0.3 million would finance the
land-use and construction industry studies. The terms assumed for the Loan
and the onlending are 25 years including 4 years' grace with interest at the
prevailing Bank rate. The period proposed is conventional for sewerage proj-
ects and the grace period corresponds to the duration of project execution.
5.07      The proposed Bank Loan of US$28 million would cover about one third
of the total project costs and about half of foreign exchange costs. The
remaining half of foreign exchenge would be provided by the Government from
its own sources and loaned to ONAS under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The execution of a subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the
Bank, covering the onlending and lending to ONAS of the amounts referred to
in this paragraph and in para 5.06, would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.08      The funds needed for local currency costs of the project, for the
total investments outside the project and for working capital totalling about
US$99 million are expected to be partly financed by internal cash generation
(US$30 million) and customers' contributions (US$22 million). The remainder
of US$47 million would be financed by Government contributions 1/ towards
equity, and provision for these funds is included in the Fourth Plan. Agree-
ment was reached that cost overruns of the project will be met by further Gov-
ment contributions.
5.09      Annex 13 gives a forecast of the sources and applications of funds
for ONAS. The following table shows the summary of the estimated total fund
requirements for the period of project construction (1975-1979) and the sources
from which they will be met:
1/   The Government contributions include the transfer of all funds required
to finance the sewerage component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project
(Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN).



- 12 -
1975 - 1979
Amounts in Millions
Dinars     US$        %
Reguirements
Capital Expenditures - Project                          36.64    86.10      56
- Tourism Centers                 10.00    23.50      15
- Other                           15.36    36.10      23
Increase in Working Capital                              4.09      9.61      6
66.09   155.31    100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                                16.70    39.25
Less:  Debt Charges                                      3.96      9.31
Net Internal Cash Generation                            12.74    29.94       20
Proposed Government Loan:
IBRD Loan Proceeds                                  11.78    27.70      19
Other Proceeds (Foreign Exchange)                   12.22    28.70      17
Proposed Contributions:
Government Contributions /1                         20.00    47.00      30
Customer Contributions                               9.35    21.97      14
66.09   155.31    100
/1   The Government contributions include the transfer of all funds required
to finance the sewerage component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project
(Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN).
E.   Project Administration and Execution
5.10      The consultants who prepared the feasibility studies for the Greater
Tunis project have been retained by the Government to prepare bid documents
and supervise construction of the project. Coyne and Bellier will perform
these tasks for the trunk sewer system, surface drainage and the evacuation
canals. ICN will be responsible for sewage treatment and the canal lift
stations. The services supplied by these consultants in the past have been
satisfactory. The personnel of ONAS will prepare the bid documents and
supervise construction of the system renewals and extension in the District
and other centers. Consultants will be retained to prepare the detailed
feasibility studies of projects to be included in the Fifth Plan, to carry
out studies of measures to improve the capacity of the Tunisian construction
industry, and to carry out a land-use study for the Lake area.



- 13 -
5.11      The Tunisian construction industry lacks the capacity to carry out
the program of investments in public works foreseen in tlhe Fourth Plan,
especially as it relates to the irrigation, water supply and sewerage sectors.
This problem was referred to in the planning report of the Committee on
Hydraulic and Sewerage Infrastructure published in January 1973 and confirmed
by a UNDP/ILO report on the construction and public works sector. The causes
of the constraint are probably multiple and include a shortage of skilled
workers which exists in spite of the high rate of unemployment and under-
employment in the country. The Committee on Hydraulic and Sewerage infra-
structure proposed that a semi-public construction company be established and
that the balance of planned works be carried out by foreign contractors. It
has been confirmed that the major drawback to the first solution is the in-
creasing shortage of skilled workers. The use of foreign contractors not
only would increase the country's foreign exchange requirements but also would
increase total project costs since inflation on the international construction
market is proceeding at a higher rate than in Tunisia. Thus for the present
project alone, the foreign exchange costs could be reduced by US$16.4 million
and total project costs by US$6.9 million if 40% of the major contracts were
won by local contractors (para 5.05). For these reasons a study of the in-
dustry to determine measures whlch can be taken to increase its capacity and
efficiency is needed and has been requested by the Government. Suggested terms
of reference for such a study, which would include training as well as analysis
have been prepared within the Bank and submitted to the Government (Annex 10).
The cost of this study has been included in the project cost estimates.
F.   Role of the Greater Tunis District
5.12      The undertaking of this project will make it possible to plan the
future development of the land surrounding the Lake of Tunis, and indeed of
the Lake itself, without the constraint imposed by the lack of pollution
control facilities. This study would be undertaken by consultants under
the direction of the District and funds have been provided for this purpose
in the project estimates. Agreement has been reached that within three years
of the date of the Loan Agreement, the District will review with the Bank land-
use plans for the future use of the Lake area, and that within the five years
the Goverument will promulgate these land-use plans and thereafter ensure
that development proceeds in accordance with these plans.
5.13      This project will involve some of the most important investments
in the Tunis area for a considerable period of time. For this reason the
project would be used as an occasion to strengthen the role of the District
and establish in practice policies which the Bank has encouraged the Govern-
ment to follow under the Tunis Urban Planning and Public Transport Project
(Loan 737-TUN/Credit 432-TUN).  The issuance of a Personnel Statute__i_of an
administrative circular defining more precisely the role of the District, both
documents to be acceptable to the Bank, would be conditions of Loan effective-
ness. The District has agreed with the extent of the sewerage project covered i
by the proposed Loan. A Project Agreement has been negotiated between the
District and the Bank outlining the District's role in the land-use studies
to be carried out under the project. Agreement was reached that an accord



- 14 -
between ONAS and the District acceptable to the Bank defining future coopera-
tion between the District and ONAS on the planning and implementation of this
and future ONAS investments in Greater Tunis would be concluded within four
months of the date of the Loan (Annex 18).
G.   Land Acquisition
5.14      The Lake of Tunis is bordered by a strip of mostly unoccupied land
varying in width from zero (where a major road or a railway borders the Lake)
to a maximum of about 1,500 meters at Megrine (Map 11175).  This land, having
a total area of about 1,500 hectares (3,750 acres), is virtually uninhabitable
because the Lake is offensive to sight and small; aside from being used for
some marginal farming, it serves mainly as a dumping ground for garbage. The
sale price of this land with the Lake in its present state would be about
D 0.3/m (US$0.07/sq. ft.). ThS present selling price for immediately ad-
jacent lands varies from D 15/m (US$3.28/sq. ft.) fronting on the Mohamed
V Boulevard to D 3/m2 (US$0.65 sq. ft.) south of Megrine. Following the
cleaning up of the Lake it can be assumed that the price of land fronting on
the Lake will rise to the value of the adjacent land. Approximately 1,000
hectares of this area belongs to registered owners, including about 570 hec-
tares belonging to the state. The remaining 500 hectares of unregistered land
area consists of fill built up over the years. The benefits accruing to the
owners of this lake front property as a result of the cleaning up of the Lake
will be considerable (para 7.02). These benefits should not accrue to indiv-
idual speculators but to all of those who contribute towards financing project
costs. In order to ensure that this will be the case, the Government would
acquire the unbuilt land which does not now belong to the state. Agreement
has been reached that the Government will acquire these lands, within a peri-
meter acceptable to the Bank, within twelve months of date of the Loan.
5.15      The sewer system, including trunk sewers will be constructed within
the street allowances. Additional land may be required for the construction
of the pumping stations. The land required for the construction of the first
stages of the North Coast and South Miliane treatment plants, and for their
future expansion, will have to be acquired by ONAS. The area required will
be significant if stabilization ponds are selected for the treatment process.
Agreement was reached that the Government will ensure that procedures avail-
able under law for expropriation or for the right of temporary occupancy will
be applied for the benefit of ONAS if they are requested.
H.   Procurement
5.16      All major contracts for the supply of equipment, pipes, and civil
works would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group "Guidelines". A margin of preference for local equipment
manufacturers of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower, has been requested.
5.17      The contract for works covering the complete rehabilitation of the
Cherguia sewage treatment plant and duplication of some units of the plant,
costing about D 1.5 million, would be negotiated with the original supplier



- 15 -
from whom a firm quotation has been received.  This quotation is considerably
lower than the estimated cost of this work prepared by the consultants.
5.18      Minor contracts for maintenance and the supply of equipment costing
less than D 25,000 (US$59,000) subject to an aggregate of D 250,000 (US$590,000)
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with ONAS' bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
5.19      Tender documents for the supply of equipment and pipes whose value
exceeds D 20,000 (US$47,000) and civil works whose value exceeds D 100,000
(US$235,000) would be submitted to the Bank for approval before bids are re-
quested. Tender documents for construction contracts would be combined as
far as possible in order to encourage international competition.
I.   Disbursement
5.20      The proposed Bank loan of US$28.0 million would be disbursed over
five years as follows:
(a)  Equipment and Materials  -    50% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
(US$6.4 million)               equipment and pipe; 50% of the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment and pipe.
(b)  Civil Works               -    35% of all civil works contracts,
(US$13.9 million)              representing 50% of the estimated
foreign exchange components.
(c)  Technical Services        -    50% of the foreign exchange costs
(US$2.1 million)               of consultants for the design and
supervision of works and for the
studies.
(d)  Unallocated               -    for physical and price contingencies.
(US$5.6 million)
Disbursements made since June 30, 1974 for foreign exchange costs of consult-
ants, minor civil works contracts and the purchase of sewer maintenance equip-
ment, amounting to not more than US$400,000, would be payable retroactively.
On completion of the project any undisbursed balance would be cancelled. A
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 11.
J.   Environment and Health
5.21      The environment of the City will be greatly improved by this project
through the control of soil and surface water pollution (especially of the
Lake) with resulting improved public health and elimination of odors and other
nuisances. The sewers themselves will be located underground and within exist-
ing street allowances and will thus have no harmful effect on the ecology of



- 16 -
the region concerned. Care is being taken to assure that the sewage treat-
ment plants will have negligible permanent harmful effects on the environment.
Following discussions with internationally known experts, it has been decided
that the decision on whether to build stabilization ponds will be based in
part on whether the pilot plant operations indicate any undesirable environ-
mental effects. New sewage treatment plant sites are located away from
present development and sufficient land would be acquired around the plants
to avoid future nuisance complaints.
5.22      The mission endeavoured to obtain reliable public health statistics
relating to waterborne diseases. Annex 3 is a graph showing the incidence of
reported cases of typhoid and paratyphoid, two diseases commonly carried by
water. The accuracy of the data on which this graph was prepared is contin-
uously improving. The decree requiring reporting of these diseases was only
passed in December 1969 and in 1971 the number of cases reported for these
diseases was only two-thirds of the number hospitalized. The percentage of
illnesses treated and reported is rising, and the trend of the curves for
these diseases indicates a decline in the frequency of these diseases since
the reporting procedure became a legal requirement. It is probable that this
trend can be related to improvements in the quality of water supplies and
the percentage of the population thus served (paras 2.02 and 3.03). In spite
of this considerable progress, infectious and parasitic diseases still ranked
third in Tunisia as a cause of death in 1972, accounting for 8.7% of all
reported deaths. (Deaths related to childbearing accounted for 30.9% and
respiratory illnesses 13.5% of reported deaths). The frequency of incidence
of the diseases investigated is of the order of 100 times the frequency with
which they occur in developed countries. While further reductions in water-
borne disease will depend to a large extent on further improvements in public
water supply and personal hygiene, there is no doubt that improve sewerage
facilities will also contribute significantly to such a reduction, by collect-
îng sewage from areas presently without collection systems, by eliminating
causes of flooding and backing-up of existing sewer systems and by eliminating
pollution of the receiving waters. The incidence of typhoid and paratyphoid
would be one of the monitoring criteria of the project (Annex 12). Thus any
minimal short-term environmental nuisances during the construction period will
be negligible by comparison with the future benefits to health and the environ-
ment.
K.   Monitoring and Key Project Indicators
5.23      In order to monitor project performance against targets it is pro-
posed to monitor selected physical, public health and financial criteria
(Annex 12). Agreement has been reached that ONAS would carry out the agreed
monitoring program, collect data from other sources from which it is available
and include these statistics in its quarterly reports to the Bank.



- 17 -
VI. FINANCE
A.   General
6.01      Although the Law establishing ONAS provides for its financial au-
tonomy, financial policy decisions will be subject to prior approval by the
Government or the controlling Ministry. These limitations of financial re-
sponsibility are set out in the Law, e.g. establishment of sewage tariffs
and taxes, investments, borrowings, statute and emoluments of personnel,
annual budgets and annual balance sheets.
6.02      ONAS' basic capital requirements including initial working capital
will be met by the Government in the form of capital contributions and by a
Loan (paras 5.06 and 5.07). A third source of finance will be contributions
for extensions by urban sewers. Fronting proprietors presently pay part of
the cost of these extensions to the municipalities but in the future the full
cost will be paid directly to ONAS.
6.03      The Government's contributions will be partly disbursed in cash to
meet capital expenditures, and partly donated in kind by the transfer of the
existing sewerage systems throughout the country. In order to compensate
the municipalities for assets to be transferred to ONAS the Government will
take over the complete debt service on these installations as and when trans-
ferred to ONAS as provided for in the Law. The total amount outstanding for
these loans as of April 1974 was D 1.6 million, out of original borrowings
of about D 2.3 million. Since the transfer of systems will be realized from
1975 to 1978 in accordance with a time-table (Annex 5) the long term commit-
ment of the Government in this respect will be less than D 1.5 million. The
true value of the existing assets transferred to ONAS in exchange will how-
ever be considerably more at 1974 prices, even though written down by depre-
ciation according to their age and condition. A provisional net assessment
for them is D 14 million, which will be introduced into ONAS' balance sheets
over the take-over period; agreement has been reached with ONAS that an in-
ventory of all existing installations handed over to ONAS will be carried out
and the subsequent evaluation will be performed within two years after their
respective take-over.
B.   Revenues
6.04      The revenues necessary to cover operating expenses, depreciation
and interest and to provide a modest surplus will be derived from four sources:
(a)  General tariffs for sewerage services;
(b) Municipal levies;
(c)  Government subsidies in aid of general tariffs;
(d) Sale of by-products and services.
6.05      The general tariffs for sewerage services will be charged on water
consumption. This decision was partly based on the fact that water supply of



- 18 -
SONEDE is metered in all parts of the country and thus billing data are avail-
able for ONAS without additional expense. Moreover the sewerage tariff based
on water consumption is considered to be the fairest solution since:
(a) The size of collectors and treatment plants depends on the
quantity of sewage, which in turn is a function of consump-
tion of potable water.
(b) Variations in individual household water consumption reflect
the willingness and ability to pay for the combined water and
sewerage services.
(c)  Sewage tariffs, added to water tariffs which are based on
metered consumption, will tend to discourage wasteful use
of water which is a scarce resource in Tunisia.
6.06      The proposed tariffs are calculated as a basic rate for all cus-
tomers with a water consumption of more than 40 m3 per quarter. Industry
would pay higher rates because of its greater pollution discharge and tourist
establishments would pay higher rates due to their seasonal peak requirements.
On this basis the general tariff charged to domestic customers in relation to
their water consumption would be a rate3of 8 millimes/m3, to industry 23 mil-
limes/m3 and to tourism 15.5 millimes/m  (rising by 50% in 1979 to reflect
expected inflation). However, this charge includes not only sewerage collec-
tion and disposal, but also the cost of treatment and environmental improve-
ments.
C.   Government Subsidy
6.07      The municipal levies will be a contribution partly calculated on the
water consumed in each municipality, but with the addition of a fixed component,
and recovered by each municipality through municipal property taxes, including
a special sewerage tax.
6.08      Since the revenues from general tariffs, from services and sales of
by-products and from municipal levies would cover the operating expenses, but
only part of depreciation, the Government has decided to support the operational
needs of ONAS by subéidies which will in fact balance the annual operating ac-
count. The subsidies are partly justified by the fact that the proposed proj-
ect would benefit a wider section of the community than the population actually
connected to the system, and they are covered by the increases in the value of
the land surrounding the Lake (para 6.09).
6.09      Improved sewage collection and dcLsposal and extended connection of
urban dwellings to the systems will provide health benefits to the country.
The investment in trunk collectors, treatment and disposal works is for the
protection of the whole environment. Such facilities make up a substantial
part of the project, represent about half the value of existing installations,
and moreover, account for the bulk of operating expenses of ONAS.



- 19 -
6.10      The financial benefits accruing to the public from the increase in
value of the land surrounding the Lake, are expected to be more than sufficient
to cover the subsidies to be transferred to ONAS through the Government budget.
The average annual amount of the subsidy foreseen during the initial years of
ONAS' operations would be approximately equal to 9% interest on the present
value of the benefit from the increases of land values discounted at 10%. The
subsidy would be D 980,000 in 1975 (equivalent to 16 millimes/m3, or US$0.14/
1000 gal): 25 millimes/m3 (US$0.22/1000 gal) in 1976: and 40 millimes/m3
(US$0.36/1000 gal) from 1977, based on water consumption by sewered customers.
The consumption basis encourages a better financial management than would a
fixed annual amount and would, if so desired, facilitate the gradual abolition
of the subsidy without affecting financial forecasts and budgetary requirements.
Agreement was reached that such a subsidy would be granted by the Government
and its level would be reviewed every five years on the basis of an equitable
allocation of charges between the proprietors and occupants of sewered premises
and the community in general. The first review would take place not later than
July 1, 1980, and the subsidies proposed at each review would require Bank
approval.
6.11      ONAS' revenues from proposed tariffs and sewerage levies and from
Government subsidies are shown below, expressed as an average per m3 during
the periods indicated.
1975-1978                As from 1979
Mill/m       ($/1000 gall)  Mill/m3    ($/1000 gall)
Domestic customers less than
40 m3/quarter                    13             12            13           12
Domestic customers more than
40 m3/quarter                    21             19            25           22
Tourism                           28.5           25            36           32
Industry                          36             32            47.5         42
Government Subsidy                30.3           27            40.0          46
The implementation of a tariff structure acceptable to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
6.12      Other revenues will arise from the sale of by-products (treated
water for irrigation and sludge) and from such services as cleaning and
repair of house connections.  (The installation of new house-connections
is not included in ONAS' work program, but is to be executed by contractors
at the expense of fronting proprietors.) The present market prices for the
by-products as assumed for projection purposes (e.g. irrigation water 4-16
millimes/m3 and sludge 500 millimes/ton) probably do not reflect their real
value and the revenues from this source may be increased by improved market-
ing methods (e.g. treated water for tourist parks and gardens has a high sub-
stitute value compared to the water tariff of 150 millimes/m3).



- 20 -
6.13      In order to make it possible for the lower-income customers to con-
nect to the sewer systems, it is proposed that credit facilities be made avail-
able for financing of house connections in already built-up regions. Similar
credit for financing of extensions to sewer systens in such regions would also
be provided. The existence of these credit facilities, expected to provide
interest free financing over a 4 year period, would help to ensure that the
connections will be made as soon as technically possible. Agreement has been
reached with the Government that such credit facilities would be made avail-
able.
6.14      In the course of the period 1975-1981 the composition of the total
revenues of ONAS will vary from year to year; the following break-down by
percentages for the different sources therefore represents the total income
for the period:
Sources of Revenues                       D Million                         %
Sewerage Tariffs charged directly            8.69                           19.3
Consumers levies collected through
municipalities                               8.41                          18.6
Subsidies                                   24.69                          54.7
Other Revenues                                3.34                           7.4
Total                             45.13                         100.0
C.   Financial Performance
6.15      The projected Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements and Balance
Sheets for ONAS from 1975 to 1981 are shown as Annexes 13, 14, and 15. All
figures are based on assumptions given in Annex 16 of which the most impor-
tant ls the tariff and subsidy policy as outlined in paras 6.04 to 6.09.
6.16      The Income Statements (Annex 13) show that ONAS would have a rela-
tively good operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation in
relation to revenues) with an average over the projected period of 69%. The
rate of return is higher than 3% (except in 1980, when it would be 2.8%). It
enables ONAS to provide for a sufficient cash generation in accordance with
the proposed financing plan.
6.17      The Cash Flow Statements (Annex 14) reflect the large requirements
in capital. ONAS through its considerable internal cash generation would pro-
vide 20% of financing of its investments during the period of project construc-
tion and 25% of its investments during the period 1975-1981. Agreement was
reached to the effect that ONAS would obtain an annual internal cash ratio of
not less than 4.0% of its net fixed assets plus work in progress. It is not
anticipated that ONAS will need to raise further loans, but the possibility
cannot be ruled out. Agreement has been reached with ONAS that no debt would



- 21 -
be incurred without the Bank's agreement unless net revenue at the time of
incurrence, before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.5 times the
annual debt service on the proposed loan and existing debt.
6.18      The Balance Sheets (Annex 15) show that while ONAS' equity comes in
the first years mainly from the Government, either by the handover of existing
installations or in cash, contributions from frontage proprietors and retained
surplus together increase to about 30% of total equity by 1981. The existing
fixed assets are shown at provisional values (para 6.03), subject to final
assessment within two years after taking-over. The depreciation rates ONAS
proposes to use for fixed assets are conservative, averaging at 3.5% per year;
part of the total (relating to consumer financed extensions) is deemed to be
written off the relevant contributions instead of being shown as an expense.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A.   The Project
7.01      Works included in this project can be classified into three cate-
gories:
(i)  trunk sewers and sewage treatment plants for pollution con-
trol in Greater Tunis;
(il)  extensions to and renewals and renovation of existing sewer
systems in Tunis and elsewhere in the country; and
(iii)  engineering services and technical assistance for the prep-
aration of feasibility studies of projects included in the
Fifth Plan, the establishment of ONAS, the preparation of land-
use plans for the Lake of Tunis area and to provide advice and
training on increasing the capacity of the construction industry.
B.   Greater Tunis Pollution Control Measures
7.02      The facilities to be built represent the least-cost solution for
the disposal of sewage from the District. It was selected after study by
the consultants of 20 possible solutions. The principal direct benefit from
this part of the project would be the increase in value of the strip of pres-
ently undeveloped land surrounding the Lake of Tunis (para 5.13).  It is as-
sumed that 75% of this land (1,175 ha) would be valued at D 5/m if the Lake
were unpolluted, instead of its present value of 300 millimes/m2. (The re-
maining 25% is assumed to be used for streets and other uses unaffected by
the polluted Lake.) The benefits resulting from this increase in value are
assumed to accumulate between 1979, one year after completion of this project,
and 1983. The costs of a second stage of pollution control measures (to be
constructed between 1982 and 1986) have been included in the economie evalua-
tion since they will be required to maintain the benefits of the first stage
(Annex 16).



- 22 -
7.03      Other benefits from the pollution control works will be increased
revenue to the fishing industry and revenues from the sale of treated waste
water for irrigation and digested sludge for use as fertilizer. Benefits
from increased revenue to the fishing industry and from the sale of treated
sludge are minimal and have little effect on the viability of the project.
Although the benefits from the sale of treated waste water for irrigation
will become substantial by 1990 (revenues from this source being 2.5 times
the operating and maintenance costs in that year), they are too far into
the future to significantly affect the internal rate of return.
7.04      The internal economic return for the pollution control project is
24.9%. It would exceed 10Z even if:
(a) total costs increased 50%;
(b)  the benefit from the increased value of the land was reduced
from D 4.7/m2 to D 2.6/m2.
7.05      Benefits are understated to the extent that they ignore tourism
benefits resulting from protecting the adjacent beaches of the Gulf of Tunis
from pollution as well as the unquantifiable benefit to the quality of life
arising from ridding the whole District of the obnoxious odor from the Lake
during the summer months.
C.   Sewage Collection (Evacuation) System
7.06      If willingness to pay is the measure of the benefits of renovation,
renewal, maintenance and operation of sewer systems, then these benefits
should be calculated jointly with those for water supply (Annex 16). In
the case of Tunis the nature of the judgments required to separate the costs
and benefits of the local water supply and sewerage system from those of the
national systems with which they are integrated are such that this calcula-
tion and its result would be illusory. The unquantifiable benefits resulting
from the construction of the sewer system will be improved public health and
environment within the project area.
D.   Engineering Services and Technical Assistance
7.07      The cost of these services is only 4% of the cost of the project.
The engineering services for the preparation of feasibility studies of proj-
ects to be included in the Fifth Plan and for the establishment of ONAS would
produce benefits many times their cost by making it possible to obtain maxi-
mum benefit from existing sewerage installations throughout the country.
Technical assistance to suggest measures to increase the capacity of the
Tunisian construction industry could aid in reducing the costs of all proj-
ects (including those already financed by the Bank) while at the same time
increasing employment in the local construction industry (Annex 10).



- 23 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During Loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that it will:
(i)  make any change in the post of President/Director General
only after the Bank has been given a reasonable opportunity
for an exchange of views (para 4.03);
(ii) issue not later than twelve months after the date of the Loan
a personnel statute applicable to ONAS, acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.04);
(iii) transfer sewerage systems to ONAS in accordance with an agreed
timetable which is to be submitted to the Bank within four months
and agree any changes with the Bank (para 4.05);
(iv) provide or ensure provision of all financing required for the
project (paras 5.07 to 5.09);
(v)  ensure that development within the area surrounding the Lake of
Tunis will proceed in accordance with land-use plans prepared
by the District (para 5.12);
(vi) acquire land fronting on the Lake within twelve months of the
date of the Loan (para 5.14);
(vii) ensure that procedures available under law for expropriation
or right of temporary occupancy will be applied for the benefit
of ONAS (para 5.15);
(viii)  subsidize the sewerage tariff in a manner acceptable to the Bank
and will review its subsidy level every five years, subject to
the Bank's agreement (para 6.10);
(ix)  make credit facilities available to low-income consumers through
ONAS for the construction of house connections and extensions
in already built-up regions (para 6.13).
8.02      During Loan negotiations, agreement was reached with ONAS that it
will:
(i)  make initial appointments to the posts of Deputy Director-General
and Director of Finance and Administration, and any change in these
positions during the execution of the project, after consultation
with the Bank (para 4.03);



- 24 -
(ii)  establish a training division and submit to the Bank for comment
a detailed training program for its personnel within one year
of the date of the Loan Agreement (para 4.04);
(iii)  have its accounts certified by an independent external auditor
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.09);
(iv)  within four months of the date of the Loan Agreement enter into
an Agreement with the District acceptable to the Bank defining
their mutual relationship and responsibilities (para 5.13);
(v)  follow reporting procedures acceptable to the Bank for the
monitoring criteria described in Annex 12 (para 5.23);
(vi)  prepare an inventory of installations transferred to it and
establish their value within two years (para 6.03);
(vii) modify its tariffs as necessary in order to ensure a cash ratio
of not less than 4.0% (para 6.17);
(viii) not incur any new debt without the Bank's agreement unless net
revenues are at least 1.5 times future debt service (para 6.17).
8.03      During Loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the District
that it will review land-use plans for the optimum use of the Lake area and
the surrounding land with the Government and the Bank within three years of
the date of the Loan Agreement (para 5.12).
8.04      Before the Loan is made effective the Bank would be satisfied that:
(i)  a Decree has been promulgated enabling ONAS to carry out its
operations in the District and the Tourism Zone (para 4.06);
(ii)  an agreement acceptable to the Bank has been entered into by
ONAS and SONEDE establishing a joint billing and collection
procedure (para 4.10);
(iii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank has been
concluded between the Government and ONAS (para 5.07);
(iv)  the Governnent has promulgated an administrative circular
(circulaire d' application) defining more precisely the role
of the District and a Personnel Statute for its employees, both
documents to be acceptable to the Bank (para 5.13);
(v)  an acceptable tariff structure has been implemented by ONAS
(para 6.11).



- 25 -
8.05      On the basis of agreements reached during negotiations on the issues
referred to above the Urban Severage Project forms a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$28 million for a period of 25 years including a grace period of 4
years.






ANNEX 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Previous Related Loans and Credits
Water Supply Projects
Loan 581-TUN   First Water Supply Project; US$15 million
loan of January 16, 1968;
Closing Date: (original) December 31, 1973
(current) December 31, 1974
Credit 209-TUN Second Water Supply Project; US$10.5 million
credit of June 30, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Credit 989-TUN Third Water Supply Project; US$23.0 million
loan of May 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Because of problems with locally manufactured asbestos-cement pipe
completion of the First Project was delayed and the Closing Date of the Loan
was extended. It now appears possible that constraints resulting from lack of
capacity in the local construction industry may make it necessary te set back
the closing date by a further six months. Final project costs are expected to
be about 6% below appraisal estimates (but 7% higher in dollar terms because
of devaluation). The Second Project is 12 to 18 months behind schedule for
the same reasons as well as because of initial delays in final design. Final
costs may be slightlv higher (say 5%) than original estimates because of cur-
rent inflation rates, but they will be 20-25% higher in dollar terms. Because
of delays in execution the Closing Date will have to be extended. The loan
for the Third Project became effective September 24, 1974. The financial
performance of SONEDE is satisfactory. Water rates have recently been in-
creased in order to ensure a satisfactory rate of return.
Tourism Infrastructure
Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN (2/28/72)
The estimated total cost of sewers, water, roads, electricity, tele-
communications, planning and promotion under this project is US$55 million,
of which $8.18 million is for water supply and $16.64 million is for sewerage.
Construction of some of the sewerage works, including the experimental stabil-
ization pond at Rades, has already begun (about 12 months behind schedule).
Tenders have been received for the remaining sewerage works and construction
will be underway before the end of 1974 and completed on schedule.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Sewerage Systems
A.  General
1.        Traditionally in the built-up areas there was a separation between
sevage and other used household water (dishwater, washwater, etc.). The first
was directed to cesspools where it liquified and filtered through the soil.
The latter flowed through open ditches, eventually discharging to a water-
course or drying up. Depending on the financial resources, locality and other
factors, these open ditches were gradually replaced by pipes, in an empirical
manner, in order to displace the hazards from the center of the built-up areas.
With the construction and extension of these pipes into sewer systems, the
cesspools are gradually disappearing. The householders discharge not only
sewage and other household wastewater, but also rainfall runoff from their
courtyards into these makeshift sewer systems. Nevertheless some cesspits
remain in all of the municipalities and in some they are still the principal
disposal method.
2.        In the cities which had sewer systems before 1960, the oldest parts
are in the medinas and are combined systems carrying both stormwater and
domestic waste, built of stone or clay pipes about 1910-1920. In general
these systems are saturated and with the slightest rainfall they overflow
through manholes and catchbasins, polluting the neighborhood. The regular
blockages in these sewers are an indication of their poor condition. More
recent systems have been built as the cities have developed but these suffer
from a lack of planning and design so that in some cases gravity connections
between parts of the system are impossible, in others the slopes of the pipes
are so weak that the systems suffer from regular blockage and emission of foul
odors. An indication of the state of these systems is given by the consultants
who report that in the sewer systems they investigated, more than half of the
manholes, grit traps and other sewer accessories were out of service. Of 27
sewage lift stations visited only 5 were functioning. Eight of the munici-
palities have some form of treatment for at least part of their sewage, but
all of the treatment plants are overloaded or malfunctioning.
3.        In the 21 communities studied by the consultants, a total of 562
persons are employed in the sewerage sector of which 350 (62%) are employed
by the municipality of Tunis. Among the 562 persans there are only about 25
technicians having skills directly related to sewerage. The majority of the
personnel are unskilled workers and laborers. The municipalities of Tunis
and Sfax each have one mechanical sewer cleaning device, providing only a
fraction of the capacity required. In any event these are of no value in
the medinas where the streets are too narrow to accommodate them and the
sewer diameters are too small. In general, sewer cleaning is undertaken
manually and then only at those points where weaknesses such as blockage
or frequent overflowing occur.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Aside from the obvious constraint of shortage of funds in a devel-
oping country, the poor state of the sewerage sector resulted from the mul-
tiplicity of responsible authorities.  Three ministries, the municipalities
and three state agencies were involved in the sector:
(i)  The Division of Urban Hydraulics of the Ministry of Equipment
(created in 1974) coordinated the needs of the various communes
and established an annual program of studies which were under-
taken by its own forces or by consultants. Part of the budget
of the Ministry of Equipment was set aside for the state finan-
cing of sewerage works; under a Decree of March 10, 1960, the
cost of sewer construction was born 16% by the fronting pro-
prietors, 42% by the municipality and 42% by the state. The
financing of treatment works was determined on the merits of
each case.
(ii)  Ministry of the Interior which controlled the administration
and management of the municipalities and which authorized
expenditures for sewerage works.
(iii)  Ministry of Public Health which was responsible for the or-
ganization and control of public hygiene, including the con-
trol of the quality of effluent from the sewage treatment
plants.
(iv) Municipalities were responsible for the operation and mainten-
ance of their sewerage works and for the application of re-
gulations concerning roads (drainage) and public health. The
municipalities had the power to collect property taxes for
the services they rendered.
(v)  Office National du Tourisme et du Thermalisme (ONTT, the
National Tourism Authority) which was responsible for all
infrastructure in the tourist zones and financed the con-
struction cost of sewerage works therein.
(vi)  The National Water Authority, SONEDE, which by decree was
responsible for the operation and maintenance of sewerage
installations within the tourist zones, but had refused to
undertake these duties because most of the plants were in-
operable and SONEDE had neither the personnel or the budget
to undertake their rehabilitation.
(vii)  The Greater Tunis District, which was granted the authority
to approve all infrastructure planning and investments in
the thirteen municipalities within its jurisdiction.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B.   Greater Tunis
5.        The most important elements of the existing sewerage system in
Greater Tunis are shown on Maps IBRD 11211, 11212 and 11213. Despite the
existence of a rather complete system which serves about 90% of those con-
nected to the public water supply system, the sewerage of Tunis is far from
adequate. The deficiencies of the system are felt during the hot summer
months when unsavoury odors emanate from the Lake of Tunis and some of the
older parts of the City and in winter during the rainy season when the
sewers overflow and sewage stagnates in the low-lying central area of the
City. In some of the so-called "popular quarters" which are rapidly becom-
ing slums sewer systems are inadequate or non-existent. Most of the housing
in these quarters, built without planning, is not connected to the sewer sys-
tem and waste is discharged into the streets or neighboring empty lots by
shallow ditches. In the Medina, overcrowding due to rapid and uncontrolled
immigration results in volumes of sewage in excess of the capacity of the
system.
6.        In the modern part of the city, inadequate slopes and even counter-
slopes caused by the movement of the unstable sub-soil prevent the normal
evacuation of sewage. In periods of rain, the barrier created by Boulevard
Mohamed V, whose pavement is constructed at a level higher than the adjacent
streets, prevents the drainage of the water which overflows into the streets.
In dry periods, the effluent stagnates in the sewers releasing corrosive
gases which attack the concrete pipes. In addition, the overflow weirs from
the sewers into the Lake of Tunis are too low, and wind-caused tides force
the salt water of the Lake back into the sewer system. The volume of sewage
collected far exceeds the capacity of the principal pumping stations and the
sewage treatment plant. More than half of the sewage collected is discharged
into the receiving waters with little or no treatment and has created a
eutrophic condition in the Lake of Tunis beyond the possibility of restora-
tion by self-purification.
7.        Within the technical services ôf the municipality of Tunis there
is a sewerage division employing approximately 350 persons, including about
20 technicians and specialists. The remainder are skilled workers, ordinary
workers and laborers. The equipment at their disposal, excluding one sewer
cleaning machine, is basically for transportation. About 40 men are employed
in the maintenance and operation of the pumping stations and the same number
at the Cherguia treatment plant. The municipal budget for maintenance and
operation of the sewerage works in 1972 was D 237,000 (US$557,000) of which
D 170,000 was for salaries.



Annex 3
TUNISIA FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECt
INCIDENCE OF SOME WATERBORNE DISEASES 1
30                     A                           a
T     \phoid and paratyphoid
(National Average)
o 10 r 2 0_
a)
c-
io
1968               1969                1970  2/            1971                1972
1/ Based on data provided by the Ministry of Public Health. The curves
indicate reported cases and not the reai frequency. Many cases are
not treated by doctors and not ail cases treated are reported.
2/ The incidence of typhoid and paratyphoid in Canada in 1970 vas 0.3
per 100,000 population.                                                   Worid Bank-9052tR)



TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
ONAS - Projected Organization Chart
Financial          __                              LTechnicali
I   Controller    |-              Board of Drectors                     Controller
|Presidr t
and GePneral Manager
l~~~~~T {eaa                                                     Suhr                  Nrh
Deputy General Manager| 
|Finance & Administrato   |                                           | Engineerinig  Nevv Works                                               Opertion
L aboratory     5gCodnto 
|~~~~~~Amnsr                                                    P _.  . e_ u
Personnel         ~~~Finance                 Services                  Studies              Peprateon                VWorks               Wourkshop 
-|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ui                                                                    Ces Accontin |l ther
Reg|o                 Reg,on                Rinee  on
World Bank 9033



Annex 5
TUNISIA - FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROBABLE SCHEDULE OF TAKE-OVE Olf SEWEKM) SYSTE!S
During          During          During        During
Beg0 of 1975            1975             1976            1977          1978          j
Tunis                Southern        North          Group of        All remaining
suburbs of     suburbs of     Akouda          urban systems
Gabès                 Tunis           Tunis
El Hamma             Sfax            Kairouan       Group of
Moknine
Kélibia              Monastir        Bizerte        Le Kef
Treatment plants     Gafsa           Zaghouan       Béja
of Monastir and
Menzel Bourguiba    Sousse          Menzel          Sidi Bouzid
Bourgiba
Grombalia
Jendouba
Ail Tou,rism Zones
Mahdia
Tozeur
Menzel Bou-
zelfa



ANNEX 6
TUNISIA - FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Connections                  GROWTH OF WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
(Thousands)
350                                                                                                                   350
300                                                                                                                   300
SONEDE's Cumulative Water
Connections
SON EDE's Cumulative Water
Connections in
250                                                                  - Urban Areas                                    250
200                                                                                                                   200
ONAS' Cumulative Sewer
Connections
(Take-over 1975-1978 plus
; . st....t.s                                                                 Extensions 1975-1981)
150                                                                                                                   150
1 00    '00000                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100
_0 _50
01                                                                                                                   O
100%     -                                                          4          -  _       -               -  10         100%
% of Urban Water Customers Served by ONAS                                                        b y   r
-                                 % ot Total COnneCted Water Customers Served by ONAS
-      oft-Cn                                - ----
50                                                                                                                   50
% of Total Population Served by ONAS
1.1.75         1975             1976            1977            1978            1979             1980            1981
Year End
World Bank-9220



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Description
1.        The following is a detailed description of works to be undertaken
in Greater Tunis:
A.   Sewer Systems
(i) City of Tunis
-    Improvements to the combined sewer system in the
city of Tunis.
- lModifications to existing stormwater overflows.
-    Construction of six new overflows on existing
collectors (including northern collector, Oued Hitti).
-    Transfer of the dry-weather flow of Oued Hitti and
possibly of Oued Rorich to the proposed Monplaisir
sumpp.
-    Construction of the Oued Menez combined collector
between Highway X and the northern collector.
-    Recalibration and repair of various collectors.
A program of tertiary system renewals and extensions.
Mlohammed V lift station.
-    New Monplaisir pumping station and repair of the
existing station.
-    Supplementary force main between Monplaisir and the
Cherguia treatment plant (length 4,000 m).
(ii) Northern Suburbs
-    Main collectors along hlighway X with the four laterals
proposed for the Ras-Tabia and Ariana-Menzah programs
(total length 17,500 m).
-    Pumping station and force main.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(iii) Western Suburbs
-    Pumping station and force main.
-    Collectors (total length 11,900 m).
-    Melassine pumping station and force main.
(iv)  Southern Suburbs
-    Djebel Djelloud collector to pumping station (length
1,200 m).
-    Three pumping stations and force mains.
-    Megrine Coteaux collector to pumping station.
-    Ben Arous collector (length 500 m).
-    Fonndouk-Choucha collector (length 3,500 m).
-    Collector to the South Miliane treatment plant
(length 1,600 m).
(v)  Southern Coastal Area
-    Hamman-Lif collector.
-    Pumping station and force main, followed by a gravity
collector to Ez-Zahra (length 2,250 m).
-    Pumping station and force main to the South Miliane
treatment plant (length 2,300 m).
(vi)  Northern Coastal Area
-    Carthage-La Goulette collector.
-    Pumping station (serving La Goulette) and force main.
-    A collector protecting the northeast corner of the
northern section of the Lake.
-    Pumping station (serving Sidi Bou Said and La Marsa)
and force main, followed by a
-    Gravity collector to station.
-    Three lift stations and force mains to the North Coast
treatment plant.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
-    Collector serving the northern tourist zones (length
2,000 m).
-    Other possible collectors (total length 3,200 ni).
B.   Storm Water Drainage
(a) City of Tunis
-    Northern Lake channel and lift station.
-    Works tying all the collectors situated downstream
from the stormwater overflows (storm water or combined
sewage) into this channel; also, if this solution should
be selected, installations connecting the end of the
treated sewage disccharge from the Cherguia plant to
this channel.
(b) Northern Suburbs
-    Oued Guereb collector, between Highway X and the con-
fluence with Oued Rorich.
-    Oued Rorich collector, between Highway X and the con-
fluence with Oued Guereb.
-    Lower Oued Rorich collector, from the Guereb-Rorich
confluence to the northern Lake channel.
(c) Western Suburbs
-    Ras Tabia collector.
-    Probably, new Le Bardo collector and channel.
(d) Southern Suburbs
-    Southern lake channel and lift station.
-    Works tying all the proposed collectors (storm water
or combined sewage) into this canal.
-    Bir Kassa Miliane channel.
C.   Sewage Treatment Plants
(i) Rehabilitation of La Cherguia treatment plant and increasing
its capacity to serve an equivalent population of 800,000
persons.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(ii)  Cotiere du Nord, a new treatment plant serving the Northern
Tunis tourism zone, Carthage and La Goulette (population
equivalent 160,000).
(iii)  South Miliane, a new treatment plant serving the Tunis South
industries residential areas (population equivalent 500,000
persons).
D.   Treated Sewage Outfalls
(i) La Cherguia: new outfall pipe to the navigation channel.
(ii)  Cotiere du Nord:  pumping station and treated sewage force-
main to the Gulf of Tunis.



TUNISIA FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE AND STUDY TIMETABLE
1974               1975               1976               1977                1978               1979
1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1 | 2   3   4    1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3    4
WORKS                                                               _ -  -                  _ 
Collector System                            pe.UI{ 5_     a m *
Treatment Plants                                      _                                           -   -         -
Cherguia                                     hum   j     - - 
North Coast                                'J                           -     , ,         - ,       - , . _  _    _
South Miliane                                                                       '          - - a                   -   -
Pumping Stations and Forcemains                           _
Extensions                                    MIw -        - - -                 a      -   -    -          -         _
Renewais                                                                            --    -
Tunis                                                                                     mi-- 
Other Towns                                     M-                L                       -               -
Evacuation Canais                  ~-
Canal Lift Stations                        l-,,,, -           -       -
Surface Drainage                                           mI                               I              II_ -   - -
STUDIESr
Construction Industry                   | I
V Plan
Design & Review of     *     _   Tendering and           _        Supply, Instatiation                                                               Cs
Tender Documents                  Contract Award                or Construction                                               Worid Bank-9051



TUNIS IA
FIRST URbAN SE2IEÇAGE PROJECT
EST1N4TED AIINUAL PROJECT XPNDITURES
(Mlillion Din,ars)
Poreign                    Total                  1974                 1975                   1976                 1977                   1978
Eochangeo/  Total    Local   Foreign        Total    Foreign      Total    Foreign      Total    Foreign      Total    Foreign      Total    Foreige
-  Exohacao          8xclhange      E_lchana               -     Ex-hange              Exchango               Exchange
1.   Collector Systoeo                                                  5.80      1.98      3.82                             0.96       0.62       2.07       1.48       1.48       0.68       1.29       0.84
Pnsping Stations Civil Works                          65         1.00     0.35       0.65                             0.20      0.14        0.43      0.28        0.20       0.12       0.17       0.11
Punping Stations Eqnipsent                            85         0.90     0.13       0.77                                                   0.51      0.44        0.13      0.11        0.26       0.22
Force-Mains                                           72.5       1.65     0.45       1.20                             0.37      0.27        0-83       0.60       0.19       0.14       0.26       0.19
Collectors                                            53.5       2.25     1.05       1.20                             0.39      0.21        0.30      0.16        0.96      0.51        0.60       0.32
2.   Sevago TreatmenC                                                   4.60      1,25      3.35                             O.S3       0.61       0.75       0.62       1.62       1.11       1.38       1.01
_ Civil Worko                                         65         2.81     0.98       1.83                             0.57      0.37        0.10       0.07       1.30      0.84        0.84       0.55
- Equipoent                                           85         1.79     0.27       1.52                             0.28      0.24        0.65      0.55        0.32      0.27        0.54       0.46
3.   Surface Drainage                                        65         2.76      0.94      1.82                             0.55       0.36       0.74       0.49       0.78       0.52       0.69       0.45
4.   Bxtensios                                               53.5       1.74      0.81      0.93                             0.43       0.23        0.44      0.23        0.43      0.23       0.44       0.24
5.  Renowals                                                 42         3.39      1.97      1.42       0.35       0.15       1.32       0.55       0.93       0.39       0.40       0.17       0.40       0.16
6.  EotablishQent of OFAS                                    65         0.70      0.24      0.46        0.19      0.13       0.50       0.33
7.  Land Acquisition                                         -          2.00      2.00       -                               2.00        -
8.   Engineering
(a) Desigo & Supervision                                80         1.20     0.24       0.96       0.30       0.24       0.50       0.40       0.20       0.16       0.20       0.16
(b) Sax Study                                          80         0.05     0.01       0.04        ..                   0.05      0.04
(c)  Studies for V. Plan and Constr. Industry          80          1.00     0.20       0.80                             0.50      0.40        0.50       0.40
Basa Cnst Estitares                                               23.24     9.64      13,60       0.84       0.52       7.66       3.54       5.63       3.77       4.91       3.07       4.20       2.70
9.   Physical Contingencie                                              2.95     1.08      1.77        0.08      0.04        0.69      0.41        0.74      0.48        0.71      0.44        0.63      0.40
(15% for 1-6y
10. Expected Price Ts cre..ee/                                         10.55      2.08      8.47         -         -          1.56      1.23        2.30      1.89        3.14      2.50        3.55      2.85
Total Expaeted Cost nf Projoot                 65        36.64    12.80      23.84       0.92       0.56       9.91       5.18       8.67       6.14       8.70       6.01       8.38       5.95
1A Ât Oecember 1974 Prions.
2/    aeung all oajor vorks carried out by firoigo contractoro.
2/ Local Inflation rate assumed to be 8b per year.
7nflation on internationally procured equipment and civil verka cal-nlatod as follows:
1975    1976 onwards
Civil Works        157     127. aonually
Equipient          11%      7.5 annually



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Local Construction Industry
Tentative Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Tunisia wishes to obtain the services of consul-
tants to (i) identify present and projected workload within the civil engineer-
ing and building construction sector in Tunisia; (ii) study the present struc-
ture, organization and effectiveness of the domestic contracting industry and
make recommendations for its improvement; and (iii) assist in implementing
agreed recommendations, including assistance to the OTTEEFP for the estab-
lishment and execution of agreed training programs.
2.        The services are expected to be required during a period of about
18 months, and to be supplied by an experienced contractor's engineer (16-18
man/months), a contractorts administrator with extensive experience in con-
tract administration costing and financing (9-12 man/months) and a specialist
in vocational (professional) training, preferably in construction industry
trades (6-8 man/months). The consultants will work under the direction of
a Construction Industry Advisory Commission.
3.        The Government of Tunisia has applied for a loan from the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development and it is intended that part
of the proceeds from this loan will be applied to the payment of foreign ex-
change payments for these services.
II. OBJECTIVE
4.        The main objective of this assistance is to help improve the capac-
ity and skills of the local construction industry to enable the industry to
assume a more effective role in the country's construction programs, replacing
foreign contractors to the extent that this is economically desirable.
III. SCOPE
5.        The consultants shall carry out inter alia the following:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(i) determine the volume of construction to be expected up to
1977 on the basis of the present plan and up to 1981 on the
basis of preliminary estimates for the Fifth Plan in each
of the different classes of building and civil works con-
struction;
(ii)  determine the immediate medium-term and long-term needs of
the country by way of equipment, financing (local and for-
eign exchange), the various categories of management person-
nel and construction workers required to complete the planned
volume of construction on schedule;
(iii) review the present status, output and potential capacity of
the existing domestic contracting industry in different
classes of building and civil works construction (the Con-
sultant is referred to a 1973 study by UNDP/ILO on this
subject entitled "L'Emploi dans le Secteur Batiment et
Travaux Publics--Situation et Perspectives," Report Number
TUN/71/545);
(iv) determine the volune of construction which it is feasible
and economically desirable to have carried out by local con-
tractors, and of the equipment, financing, management per-
sonnel and construction workers required by the local indus-
try in order to meet this objective;
(v) assess whether the volume of construction indicated in (iv)
above can best be met by expansion of existing construction
firms or whether the establishment of new enterprises, if
necessary with state assistance, is desirable. In this
context the consultant should investigate the need for and
desirability of establishing equipnient rental companies for
tlhe rental of expensive construction equipment which a typical
construction contractor might require for only a limited period
of time. If the need is established he should provide detailed
recommendations or the creation of such a company, or companies;
(vi) review problems currently encountered by the construction indus-
try regarding the shortage of cement, bricks, pipes and other
building materials and indicate where the capacity of the
Tunisian suppliers should be expanded and measures which can
be taken to facilitate importing of needed materials which
cannot be locally produced economically;
(vii) review current bidding and contracting procedures and recom-
mendations as to specific changes;
(viii) report on any desirable improvements in the existing facili-
ties, private and public, for providing the industry with the
needs regarding performance, bonding, bank guarantees, medium-
and long-term financing and the provision of foreign exchange;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(ix)  report on specific changes in Government policy which would
encourage participation by foreign contractors in the coun-
try's construction program and their commitment to training
of Tunisian personnel;
(x)  prepare recommendations on the organization and operation of
a suitable local trade association of construction contractors;
(xi)  prepare a detailed schedule of the number of skilled workers
which will be required each year by trade and specialty; in-
cluding a profile of the characteristics and training required
for each trade;
(xii)  assist the OTTEEFP in:
(a) establishing suitable training courses and selecting
personnel to teach these courses, in order to develop
the skills required under (xi);
(b)  taking measures to raise security of employment in the
sector, to increase the attractiveness of the construc-
tion industry as a source of employment for young peo-
ple, and to recruit young persons to the training pro-
gram;
(c) improving operation of the employment referral service.
(xiii)  assist the OTTEEFP in conducting seminars on subjects in which
additional skills can promote efficiency. The following sub-
jects (among others) would be treated:
(a) formis of prequalification, bidding and contract docu-
mentation, including conditions of contract, specifica-
tions, drawings, bondings, methods of payments, claims
and arbitration, etc;
(b) estimating of costs and pricing of bids, including risk
analysis;
(c) record keeping for cost control;
(d)  programming and scheduling of civil works, including
mobilization equipment maintenance, materials purchase
and storage;
(e)  general financial planning and budgetary control; and
(f) personnel management and training.



ANEX J10
Page 4
(xiv) conduct seminars for government officials concerned with the
construction industry on subjects such as:
(a) preparation of proper prequalification, bidding and
contract documentation;
(b)  evaluation of prequalification and bidding submission;
(c) the duties and responsibilities of "Engineer" and
"Employer";
(d) site records;
(e)  payment provisions and procedures; and
(f) disputes and arbitration.
IV. TIMING
6.        The services will be provided in three phases:
Phase I   -    About four months to review present and future
volume of construction, the present capacity of
the industry and the industry needs in order to
carry out the construction program; establish a
detailed work program for Phase II and a work
program outline for Phase III. The Conclusions
of Phase I shall be incorporated in an Inception
Report.
Phase II  -    About four months to review bottlenecks in the
materials supply industry, bidding and contract-
ing procedures, financing and guarantee institu-
tions; make recommendations to encourage foreign
contractors and to establish a local construction
association; prepare a detailed schedule of needed
skilled workers. The recommendations to be con-
trained in a Phase Il Report shall incorporate a
complete training program for Phase III.
Phase III -    About ten months, to assist OTTEEFP with the prep-
aration and start up o2 a training program and im-
plementation of measures to improve the flow of
trained personnel to industry; conduct seminars for
Government and industry personnel; assist the Gov-
ernment in the implementation of other agreed rec-
ommendations.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
7.        All reports should be supplied in 50 copies to the Government which
will forward 5 copies to IBRD.
V. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE
PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNUENT
8.        The Government will provide the consultants with all available data
which they require to carry out their assignment efficiently. The Government
will also provide liaison through the Construction Industry Advisory Commission
in connection with work that requires the cooperation of Government agencies
and contractors.  The Government will assign a qualified counterpart engineer
who will work full-time to coordinate the work of the Commission and the Con-
sultants. The Government will provide the following facilities and supporting
staff to help the consultants perform their services:
(a) office space, furniture, minor equipment and office supplies,
telephone utilities;
(b) one vehicle (with driver);
(c) fuel and maintenance of Consultants' vehicle;
(d) cost of Consultants' postal and telephone expenses;
(e) one typist; and
(f) one draftsman (part-time).



I1.rjnex :  
TJNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative Disbursenent
and Half-Year               Disbursements                 at End of Half-Year
US$ 000                           US$ 000
197L1/75
June 30, 1975                 1,000                              1,000
1975,/76
Dec. 31, 1975                 1,400                              2,hOo
June 30, 1976                 2,700                              5,100
1976/77
Dec. 31, 1976                 3,900                              8,300
June 30, 1977                 3,500                             11,800
1977/78
Dec. 31. 1977                 3,500                             15,300
June 30, 1978                 3 600                             18,900
197 2/79
Dec. 31, 1)72                 3,500                             22,h00
Jume 30, 1979                 3.500                             25,900
1979/30
Dec. 31, 1979                 2,10,



ANNEX 12
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Monitoring Criteria
It is proposed that the following criteria be monitored to deter-
mine whether the project is fulfilling its objectives and reported in quarter-
ly reports from OeAS to the Bank:
Physical Criteria
-    total cumulative sewer connections
-    % urban water customers served by ONAS
(Projections for these two indicators are given in Annex 6).
-    variations in dissolved oxygen levels in the Lake of Tunis
(a sampling program acceptable to the Bank should be agreed
upon during negotiations).
Public Health Criteria
-    incidence of typhoid and paratyphoid in Tunisia and in the
Greater Tunis (present incidences are given in Annex 3). These
are about 100 times the level in developed countries and
should drop noticeably in Greater Tunis in the years following
completion of the project.
Financial Criteria
-    rate of return (projections are given in Annex 13)
-    internal cash generation (projections are given in Annex 14)
-    average operating expenses per
(a) sewer connection
(b)  m3 of water consumed by connected customers
-    variations in the value of land surrounding the Lake of Tunis
(a program to follow the changes in land values in representative
areas should be agreed during negotiations).



TUNISIA - FIRS?  JRBAN SEWERAGF PROJECT
ONAS - INCOIE STATEPENTS - PROJECTED 1975--1981
Fiscal Year 1nding Dec. 31                                                  1975        1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981
Water Sold in Systems Taken-over                    (Millions of m3)          61         78         86          98         109        120         131
(Relation  to Total Water Sold by SONEDE)               (M>                66         78          81         86          90         93          97
Average Revenue for Sewerage                       (Millimes/m3)              23.7       22.1       21.9        21.6        27.9       27.8        27.2
Average Revenue incl. Goverrment Subsidy            (Millimes/m3)            40.2        47.1        61.9       61.6        67.9       67.8        67.2
-_________________----------D million---,------------------------
Revenues
Sewerage Tariffs Charged Directly                                           0.59        0.77       0.85        1.01       1.71        1.81       1.95
Consumers' Levies Collected through Municipalities                          0.86        0.95       1.03        1.11       1.33        1.52        1.61
Sales of Products                                                           0.04        0.06       0.25        0.30       0,35        0.37       0.40
Connections Repairs and Other Services                                      0.12        0.15       0.18        0.21       0.26        0.30       0.35
Goveroient Subsidies                                                        0,98        1.95       3.44        3.92       4.36        4.80        5.24
Sub-Total                                                        2.59       3.88        5.75       6.55        8.01       8.80        9.55
Less Bad Debts Provision                                                    0.02        0.02       0.03        0.03       0.03        0.04       0.05
Total Revenues                                             2.57        3.86       5.72        6.52       7.98        8.76       9.50
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                                   0.55        0.80       1.10        1.36       1.47        1.70        1.83
Energy and Water                                                            0.10        0.20       0.20        0.25       0.25        0.25        0.30
Materials                                                                   0.20        0.30       0.35        0.40       0.50        0.55        0.65
Third Parties Services                                                      0.10        0.20       0.25        0.35       0,40        0.50       0.55
Administrative Expenses                                                     0.15        0.20       0.25        0.30       0.30        0.40        0.45
Miscellaneous                                                               0.11        0.15       0.19        0.22       0.25        0.26       0.27
Taxes                                                                       0.04        0.05       0.06        0.07       0.08        0.09       0.10
Sub-Total                                                        1.25       1.90        2.40       2.95        3.25       3.75        4.15
Less Transfer to Assets/>                                                    0.15       0.30       0.40        0.45       0.50        0.55        0.60
Tutal Operating Expenses                                   1.10        1.60       2.00        2.50       2.75        3.20       3.55
Income before Depreciation                                                  1.47        2.26       3.72        4.02       5.23        5.56       5.95
Less Depreciation2                                                          0.60        1.15       1.95        2.30       3.25        3.55        3.65
Net Operating Income                                       0.87        1.11       1,77        1.72        1.98       2.01        2.30
1,ess Interest                                                              0.04        0.13       0.68        1.16        1.62       1.88        1.85
Net Income                                                 0.83        0.98       1.09        0.56       0.36        0.13       0.45
Operating Ratio (afler depreciation) (%>                                      66         71          69         74          61         77          65
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets   (M)                                      5.3        3.6         4.1        3.1         3.0        2.8         3.2
/L Cost of extension carried out by force account.
/2  Total depreciation is a larger amount, the portion relating to contribution-financed extensions being wr-itten off customers' contributions in the
balance sheets.                                                                                                                                                                     >
December 19, 1974



TUNISIA - FIRST URbAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
oNAS - CASH FLOW STATEMENTS - PROJECTED 1975-1981
Total
Fiscal Year Ending Dec. 31                                                1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1975-1981
-____________________-------DO million---------------------
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Incern  before Depreciation                                (1)    1.47      2.26      3.72      4.02      5.23     5.56      5.95        28.21
Operational Requirements
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital other than Cash         (2)   (0.45)   (0.62)    0.33        0.06      0.81     0.21      0.01         0.35
Interest charged to operations:
-  Proposed IBRD Loan                                                  0.02     0.13      0.34      0.58      0.81     0.94      0.92         3.74
-  Other Loans                                                         0.02     0.13      0.34      0.58      0.81     0.94      0.93         3.75
Amortîzation of Loans:
-  Proposed IBRD Loans                                                 -        -         -         -         0.20     0.20      0.25         0.65
-  Other Loans - Long Term                                             -        -         -         -         -        0.20      0.20         0.40
Total Operational Requirements                       (3)   (0.41)   (0.36)    1.01       1.22      2.63      2.49      2.31         8.89
Balance of Internal Funds Available for Investments (1-3)          (4)    1.88      2.62     2.71      2.80      2.60      3.07      3.64        19.32
Capital Expenditures
Proj ect                                                               8.60     8.70      9.30      8.40      1.64      -        -           36.64
Tourism Centers                                                        2.00     4.00      4.00      -         -         -        -            10.00
Others                                                                 -        -         -         6.00      9.36      9.00     5.40        29.76
Total Capital Expenditures                                 10.60    12.70    13.30    14.40    11.00         9.00      5.40        76.40
Increase (Decrease) of Accounts Receivable (Long-Term)                    0.65     0.07      0.07      0.46      1.09     0.59      (1.31)        1.62
Total Capital Investraent                            (5)   11.25    12.77    13.37    14.86    12.09         9.59      4.09        78.02
Balance to be Financed                                  (5-4)     (6)    9.37    10.15    10.66    12.06         9.49      6.52     0.45         58.70
Covernment Loan:
-  Proceeds IBRD Loan                                                  1.00     2.75      3.00      3.00      2.05      -        -           11.80
-  Other Proceeds                                                      1.00     2.75      3.00      3.00      2.45      -        -           12.20
Total Loan                                                  2.00      5.50      6.00     6.00      4.50      -         -           24.00
Governsent Contributions                                               6.00     5.00      4.00      4.00      1.00      1.00      _           21.00
Customers' Contributions                                               1.45     0.70      1.00      2.20      4.00      3.80     0.30         13.45
Total Funding                                        (7)    9.45    11.20    11.00    12.20        9.50      4.80      0.30        58.45
Cash Increase (Decrease) for Year                      (7-6)              0.08      1.05      0.34     0.14      0.01    (1.72)   (0.15)         (0.25)
Cash at Beginning of Year                                                 0.70      0.78      1.83     2.17      2.31      2.32      0.60
Cash at End of Year                                                       0.78      1.83      2.17     2.31      2.32      0.60      0.45
Debt Service Coverage (times)                        (1:/3-]t)           37         8.7       5.5       3.5      2.9       2.4       2.6          3.3
Internal Financing of Capital Investment (%)   (4 as % of 5)             17        21       20        19        22        32        89           25
--do-- as % of Net Fixed Assets Plus Work in Progress (%)                10.4       8.0      5.9       4.8       3.9       4.2       4.7
(Annual Average)
December 1974



Annex 15
TUNISIA - FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
ONAS - BALANCE SHEETS - PROJECTED 1975-1981
Opening
Balance
Fiscal Year Ending Dec. 31                                1975         1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
D million                                    --
Assets
Fixed Assets                                             9.70      23.95      39.98      51.43       69.75      79.45      86.35      92.25
Less Depreciation                                         -         0.60       1.80        3.80       6.20       9.60      13.40      17.40
Net Fixed Assets                                    9.70      23.35      38.18      47.63      63.55      69.85      72.95      74.85
Work in Progress                                         1.00       2.10        1.90      4.50        0.60       1.90       4.00       3.50
Total Fixed Assets                                 10.70      25.45      40.08      52.13      64.15      71.75       76.95      78.35
Accounts Receivable (Long-Term)/-                         -         0.65       0.72        0.79       1.23       2.32       2.91       1.60
Stocks                                                   0.05       0.15       0.18       0.21        0.22       0.23       0.24       0.25
Accounts Receivable (Short-Term)s                         -         0.30       0.45        0.55       0.60       0.80       1.00       1.00
Cash and Equivalent                                      0.70       0.78       1.83        2.17       2.31       2.32       0.60       0.45
Total Current Assets                                0.75       1.88       3.18       3.72       4.36       5.67       4.75        3.30
Total Assets                                 11.45      27.33      43.26      55.85       68.51      77.42      81.70      81.65
Equity and Liabilities
Government Contributions                                10.30      21.05      29.05      33.80       37.80      38.80      39.80      39.80
Fronting Proprietors' Contributions                       -         1.45       2.10        3.05       5.15       9.00      12.55      12.50
Retained Surplus                                          -         0.83        1.81       2.90       3.46       3.82       3.95       4.40
Total Equity                                       10.30      23.33      32.96      39.75      46.41      51.62      56.30       56.70
Long-Term Debt - Proposed IBRD Loan                       -          1.00       3.75       6.75       9.75      11.60      11.40      11.15
"1     "l  - Goverroment Loan                         -         1.00       3.75       6.75       9.75      12.20      12.00       11.80
Accounts Payable                                         1.15        2.00       2.80       2.60       2.60       2.00       2.00       2.00
Total Liabilities                                   1.15       4.00      10.30      16.10      22.10      25.80       25.40      24.95
Total Equitv and Liabilities                 11.45      27.33      43.26    55.85         68.51       77.42    81.70       81.65
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                  15:85      24:76    29:71         32:68       33:67    31:69       31:69
/1 Net of Bad Debts Provision
December 1974



ANNEX 16
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.   Income Statements
1.        The water quantities on which the tariffs are charged to the cus-
tomers (and on which the Government subsidy will be collected) are those to
be sold by SONEDE in the towns and tourist areas taken over by ONAS, reduced
by an appropriate factor, where the sewerage systems do not yet correspond
with the water supply system. Where, however, sewerage facilities exist, the
water consumers will be fully charged from the beginning of the year of take-
over by ONAS, even if they are not yet connected to the available sewer. Re-
venues are assumed on the basis of above-mentioned quantities and tariffs,
levies and subsidies as shown in para 6.10.
2.        Personnel expenses are projected on a forecast of the annual needs
of the growing organization and on emoluments based on a statute equal to that
of SONEDE. The rates are increased by 5% annually, which is believed adequate
in the closely controlled climate for wages and salaries in Tunisia.
3.        Other Expenses are estimated on the basis of operational needs and
reflect an expected inflationary increase of the national price level (5-8%
annually).
4.        Taxes are only calculated on a provisional basis for minor items,
since the government proposes to exempt ONAS from taxes on sales and profits.
5.        Transfer to Assets represent the value of construction works for
sewerage extensions carried out by ONAS labor force as planned in its working
program, and which therefore should not be left as a charge against operating
revenue.
B.   Cash Flow Statements
6.        The long-term loan from the Government is based on the foreign ex-
change needs of ONAS for the project execution, about half to be relent from
the proceeds of the Bank Loan and the remainder to be provided from Government
sources. The grace periods are assumed to be 4 and 5 years respectively.



AN-NEX 16
Page 2
7.        Governnent contributions in cash include amounts for the sewerage
development of tourist areas for which Tunisia has obtained Bank assistance
under Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN as well as a development credit from
the Federal Republic of Germany.
8.        Contributions of front proprietors are calculated on the basis of
existing legislation and in accordance with the extension program of ONAS.
Seventy percent of the cost of these investments is expected to be recovered
in this form. (Credit facilities made available to contributors by ONAS are
reflected in "Accounts Receivable-Long Term".)
9.        The relatively high liquidity yielded by the projected financing
policy appears desirable in view of uncertainties of various kinds which a
new organization has generally to overcome.
C.   Balance Sheets
10.       The valuation of fixed assets to be financed by ONAS is subject to
inflationary price increases for both foreign and local expenditures. As to
the existing fixed assets taken over in municipalities and tourism centers
the estimated values are the expected replacement values at 1974 prices, less
depreciation in accordance with the estimated residual lives of these installa-
tions. ONAS's policy will be to depreciate on straight line rates beginning
in the year following entry into service.
i1.       Accounts receivable - long term assume that 75% of the front pro-
prietors will take advantage of ONAS's credit facilities for the payment of
contributions by installments over an average period of 4 years. Short-term
receivables depend on the billing and collecting procedure of SONEDE, which
means a time-lag of about 4-5 months between provision of service and recovery
of the charge. Projections assume that the levy and subsidy accounts are
settled at each year end.
12.       Accounts payable reflect forecasts of retention moneys on contracts
and appropriate amounts for material purchases and other operating charges.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
TUNISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Economic Justification
A.   The Project
1.1       The project consists of a principal component to provide sewerage
for Tunis District and minor components cover the establishment of a national
sewerage authority, a start on urgently needed renovation and renewal of
sewer systems in other communities, studies for the preparation of sewerage
projects for the Fifth Plan and technical assistance to improve the capacity
of the Tunisian construction industry. The project is part of a national
program of sewerage works and its cost represents 51% of the total planned
investments in the sector to the end of 1981.
1.2       The improvement of sewerage facilities in the Greater Tunis is
estimated to cost D22.02 million or 79% of the total project costs. The works
can be divided into two elements, works related to the secondary and tertiary
sewer systems, which serve to evacuate the sewage from the built-up areas, and
the trunk sewers and sewage treatment plants which will reduce pollution of
the receiving waters.
B.  Economic Analysis of Pollution Control Works
The Project
2.1       Sewage carried by the secondary and tertiary collector system will
be intercepted by a system of trunk sewers and carried to one of the three
treatment plants included in the project. In addition canals will be built
close to the shores of the Lake of Tunis which will intercept polluted surface
water runoff and combined sewer overflow which will then be pumped into the
navigation canal and discharged in much-diluted form into the Gulf of Tunis.
the cost of these works is estimated to be D19.52 million, which is 79.5% of
the estimated costs of the Tunis District component.
2.2       The physical effect of the pollution control program will be to
clean up the ditches and sebkhets (salt lakes) in the District as well as the
Lake of Tunis and the beaches on the Gulf of Tunis. At present sewage is dis-
charged at these locations either untreated or only partly treated.
2.3       The most tangible benefits would accrue to owners and occupiers of
lake-front properties, by eliminating the odor emenating from these sites and
the unpleasant visual effects of floating solids and discolored water. Although
primarily affecting riparian properties, these benefits, particularly in sum-
mer when odors are strongest, would be felt widely throughout the District.



SNNEX 17
Page 2
2.4       Economic benefits of the pollution control program are expected to
result in an increase in lake-front land values. Such an increase would re-
present the present worth equivalent of the stream of utility that would be
obtained over future years as a result of improvement in environmental quality.
2.5       Properties surrounding the Lake of Tunis will be most significantly
affected by this phenomenon (Map 11175). Although it is expected that all
property values within one kilometer of the shores of the Lake will experience
some increase in value, it would be impossible to separate the influence of
the polluted environment from other factors without an extensive study. How-
ever, there is a strip of completely undeveloped land of varying width sur-
rounding the Lake which serves for subsistence grazing or as an unauthorized
refuse disposal area. The obnoxious condition of the Lake is described by
local authorities as responsible for the failure to develop this land. The
population of Tunis is growing at about 5% per year and there is an active
demand for land. There is an especially high demand for land in the central
area of the city nearby the Lake on Boulevard Mohamed V where property values
are highest. The strip of land surrounding the Lake was estimated by several
authorities to have a value of only 300 millimes/m2 (US$0.07/ft2).  Immediate-
ly adjacent land in the Mohamed V area is selling for up to D50/m2 (US$10.93/ft2)
with a general value of D15/m2 (US$3.28/ft2). Land in the area of Megrine
was reported to be worth D3/m2 (US$0.65/ft2). There are approximately 1,500
ha of land in this strip around the Lake excluding those areas which have
been created by filling the Lake. It is assumed that 25% of the registered
land area, when developed, will be used for streets and other uses not affect-
ed by pollution, and that the average value of the land if the Lake were un-
polluted would be D5/m2 (US$1.09/ft2). The area around the Lake represents
about 7% of the area of Greater Tunis and would be gradually introduced into
the marketplace. Since the demand elasticity is not known, it has been as-
sumed to be minus one over the relative range, thus implying a 7% reduction
in the price of land.
2.6       Assuming that the average new value of the land is 4.8D/n2 (US$1.05
ft2), the benefit from cleaning up the Lake would be 1,125 ha at D4.7/m2 or
D52.9 million (US$124.3 million). These benefits are expected to be realized
between 1979, the year following completion of the first stage of the project,
and 1983. The second stage of the project, which will be built between 1982
and 1986 is included in the costs because it will be required in order to
maintain the benefits.
2.7       Commercial fishing is presently carried out in the Lake.  The annual
catch in recent years has been valued at D180,000 (US$423,000). During this
same period it has been estimated by the Mfnistry of Agriculture that fish
having a net value D 30,000 (US$70,500) annually have died during the summer
months from lack of oxygen. It is expected that if nothing is done to halt
the discharge of sewage to the Lake, within 15 years there will be no fishing
in the Lake. Cleaning up the Lake would therefore result in increased net re-
venue from greater fish production, assuwed to vary from D12,000 in 1976 when
the Cherguia plant will be operating properly to D 180,000 in 1990 and there-
after.



INNEX i7
Page 3
2.8       A further benefit from the treatment of sewage to prevent pollution
would be through the sale of the by-products, treated sewage for irrigation and
sludge for fertilizer.
2.9       Some of the treated sewage could be sold for irrigation in the
Soukra region beginning in 1976. The Bank is presently considering financing
an irrigation rehabilitation project which includes this region. It is
estimated that by 1985 there would be 550 ha of citrus fruits producing a
surplus benefit of D42.5 per hectare and 250 ha of vegetables producing a net
surplus benefit of D85.1 per hectare, for a total annual surplus benefit of
D44,680. A water master plan for Northern Tunisia, Prepared by consultants
initially under a Bank engineering credit, indicates that a further area would
be irrigated by treated sewage in the Lower Medjerda Valley. The net benefit
from bringing this area into production would be D460/ha/yr. Construction of
this irrigation project is forecast for 1986 and it is estimated that by 1990
sufficient treated waste water will be available to irrigate 3,700 ha, pro-
ducing a net annual benefit of D1.7 million.
2.10      Sewage sludge produced by the treatment plants may contain an aver-
age of 6% nitrogen and 4% phosphoric acid. At 1974 prices of US$220/MT for
urea (46.6% nitrogen) and US$43/MT for rock phosphate (33% phosphoric acid),
this sludge would be worth US$33.54/MT as fertilizer equivalent. However,
the constant price of fertilizer is expected to decline to about half its
present value by 1985, so that the sludge, in constant prices, would only be
worth about US$16.50/MT at that time. Moreover, the additional cost of haul-
ing and spreading sewage sludge as compared to commercial fertilizers may be
from US$10/MT to US$60/MT. Finally the large percentage (75%) of completely
inert material in the sewage sludge may limit is suitability for continuous
application to some soils. In view of the many factors which may affect the
economic value of sludge as fertilizer, a value of 500 millimes/MT (US$1.17/MT)
the price at which such sludge is presently sold in Tunisia, has been used in
calculating the benefits.
2.11      Benefits of pollution control for public health have not been quan-
tified directly: in part they would be reflected in the increase in land
values. Similarly, recreational benefits likely to result from improving the
quality of the Lake are not included since to do so might also involve an
element of double-counting.
2.12      The benefits used for purposes of this evaluation are understated
to the extent that they ignore increased property values other than those of
the strip of undeveloped land surrounding the Lake, they ignore the tourism
benefits resulting from protecting the adjacent beaches of the Gulf of Tunis
from pollution and they ignore the unquantifiable benefit to the quality of
life which will arise from ridding the whole District of the obnoxious odor
from the Lake during the summer months.
Project Justification and Sensitivity Tests
2.13      Pollution control costs and benefits are given in Table I.  All
values are at December 1974 prices, and costs are not of taxes (estimated to
be 10%) but including 15% physical contingencies.



ANNEX i 7
Page 4
2.14      The internal rate of return for the pollution control elements of
project is 24.9%. It would exceed 10% even if:
(a) costs of the pollution control works increased 50%;
(b)  land values fall from D5/m2 to D2.9/m2.
C.   The Sewage Collection (evacuation) System
3.1       Project costs related to the sewage collection system are estimated
at D3.88 million or 21.5% of the costs of the Tunis District project. This
amount is divided equally between extensions and renovations or renewal of
the existing tertiary and secondary collection system.
3.2       Extensions to the system would be paid in full by consumer contribu-
tions at the time of construction. ONAS's other revenues, which would cover
the cost of the renovations and renewals of the existing collection system as
well as the operating and maintenance costs, would be generated by charges on
water consumed by those connected to the sewer system and from government sub--
sidies. Revenues from the consumers would be more than sufficient to cover
operating and maintenance costs. However these revenues cannot be considered
as the benefits of the sewer collection system. This is because the price
that consumers are willing to pay for water supply plus sewage collection may
represent the value they place on water supply alone. That this may indeed
be the case is evident from the fact that it has been suggested by ONAS that
failure to pay the sewer charge result in cutting off of the water service.
In the extreme case, if consumers place no value at all on the provision of
sewerage facilities, the additional amount they are called upon to pay for
sewerage for a given rate of water consumption will merely extract part of the
consumer's surplus on water consumption that would otherwise have been reaped.
3.3       Thus the costs and benefits of sewage collection cannot be evaluated
separately from those for water supply. In the case of Tunis, such an analysis
of the combined systems would require several difficult judgments because:
(i) the water supply works for Tunis also serve other centers;
(ii) SONEDE being a national water supply authority the operating
costs for the Tunis water supply system are integrated with
those of the rest of the country;
(iii)  the tariff for sewerage will generate revenues from consumers
who are already connected to the sewer system and which will
not necessarily be related to the improved service they receive;
(iv) since ONAS is a national sewerage authority the operating costs
for Tunis are integrated with those for the other centers which
it serves.



ANNEX 17
Page 5
Because of the uncertainty introduced by these judgments, such a calculation
and the result thereof would be illusory.
3.4       The operating and maintenance costs for the sewer system will be
met by charges under the sewage tariff. Fronting proprietors will pay for
most of the collector system. The unquantifiable benefits resulting from the
construction of the sewer system will be improved public health and environ-
ment within the project area.



TUNIMIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Pollution Control Costa & Benerits
(in D mlllion)
Costa                                                      Benerite
CSonstru pion                                           Lncreaseea       Ylsl      Irrigation      SLudge as
Year             Cost_1              Operating           Total       Land Values     Production      Water       Fertilizer    Total
Personnel     Energy
1975             2.83            0.02         0.08        2.93                                       0.03            0.01        0.04
1976             4.22            0.02         0.11        4.35                         0.01          0.03            0.01        0.05
1977             4.67            0.03         0.14        4.84                         0.03          0.03            0.01        0.06
1978             4.02            0.04         0.17        4.23                         0.04          0.04            0.01        0.09
1979                             0.04         0.20        0.24        10.12            0.05          0.04            0.01       10.22
1980                             0.04         0.24        0.28        10.12            o.o6          0.04            0.01       10.23
1981                             0.04         0.27        0.31        10.12            0.07          0.04            0.0.       10.23
1982             3.56            0.04         0.30        3.90        10.12            0.09          0.04            0.01       10.26
1983             3.56            0.04         0.34        3.94        10.12            0.10          0.04            0.01       10.27
1984             3.56            0.04          0.37       3.97                         0.11          0.04            0.01        0.16
1985             3.56            o.o6          0.40       4.02                         0.12          0.05            0.01        0.18
1986                             0.11         0.44        0.55                         0.13          0.09            0.01        0.23
1987                             0.11         0.47        0.58                         0.14          0.51            0.01        o.66
1988                             0.11         0.51        0.62                          0.16         0.92            0.02        1.10
1989                             O.11         0.54        0.65                         0.17          1.33            0.02        1.52
1990 onwards                     0.11          0.57       0.68                          0.18         1.74            0.02        1.94
1  Factor Conte equal to 90% of total construction coste; construction costa include 15% contingencies.
4 



TUN1ISIA
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE TUNIS DISTRICT
1.        To create an institutional structure within which the Tunis Metro-
politan Areats development could be planned and guided as a whole, in 1972,
the Government of Tunisia established the Tunis District. The District's
principal function is to plan, coordinate, and supervise public investment
at the metropolitan level.  It is under the authority of the Governor-Mayor
of Tunis, a Board of local representatives chaired by the Governor-Mayor and
a ministerial level Council, chaired by the Prime Minister, exercising super-
visory decision-making responsibilities.
2.        Establishment of the District constitutes a major step towards
decentralization and sets a precedent for the eventual regionalization of
public administration in Tunisia. Such fundamental change cannot easily
be put into effect. Practical measures to recruit a staff and ensure that
the District has a major role in planning the public investment program for
the Tunis area, in preparing the state capital budget for Tunis and in
promoting and coordinating the execution of the projects falling within its
juriadiction, have taken considerable time and effort.
3.        The Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transportation Project
(Loan 937/Credit 432)±/ place particular emphasis on the effective establish-
ment of the Tunis District.  To assist the District to fill its role under
that project, a District Organization Decree was promulgated outlining the
District's organization, staffing, financial authority and relations with
other agencies. Provision was made for technical assistance to prepare a
long-range comprehensive urban development strategy, to aid in identifying
and coordinating both short-term and long-term inter-sectoral investment
decisions and to undertake special policy studies on transport, housing and
public finance. A staffing pattern was also established. The District is
to have three directorates, responsible respectively for planning and studies,
programming and the public investment budget, and supervision.
4.        Experience has shown that the District Organization Decree lacked
the specificity that is necessary to make the District fully effective.  The
Government indicated to the Bank that it would issue administrative circulars
(Circulaires d'Application) which would specify in greater detail the functions
and responsibilities of the District within its area of jurisdiction and specify
its relationship to existing public and quasi-public entities and organizations.
Under the draft circulaires currently in progress, the District would: (î)
examine before commitment any study proposal or infrastructure investment; (îi)
participate with relevant agencies in the preparation of capital budgets; (iii)
participate in decisions relating to industrial, public and private commercial
projects; (iv) control building permits within Greater Tunis District.
R1/ See "Tunisia, Appraisal ai Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport
Project,t' Repart 157a-TUN dated July 25, 1973.



--t,t J --.-,
5.        During the past eighteen months, the Government has appointed the
District's first Director-General who has recruited the initial technîcal
staff. Difficulties have been encountered in recruiting additional staff of
the calibre required. An inadequate salary structure is a principal reason.
Only the planning and studies directorate has been established; the District
has yet fully to emerge as a programming and a supervision agency.
6.        The initial task of the District is to undertake a major program of
urban planning and policy studies, with technical assistance financed jointly
by the UNDP and the recent Bank/IDA loan credit; this is now underway. The
District staff will identify, analyze and program the initial investment needs
to implement a strategy of urban land use in the Tunis metropolitan area. Its
work program includes sectoral policy and project feasibility studies relating
to public transport policy, housing policy, and fiscal and financing problems;
feasibility studies for development of new housing including site and services
areas as well as possible urban renewal or rehabilitation of parts of downtowrn
Tunis are expected to follow. The Tunis District also exercises a supervisory-
role over the public transport improvement program initiated under the Bank
Urban Transport Project. Under guidance from the District and its consultants,
the Tunis municipality is undertaking an examination of short and medium term
traffic improvements, including a review of parking charges, and existing
regulations and practice, with a view to introducing greater restraint of
automobile usage in the central areas and to encourage more efficient use of
public transport.
7.        The Tunis Urban Sewerage Project offers a logical opportunity to
strengthen the District. Its role under the project is considerable. The
economic justification of the pollution control works is based on the increase
in riparian land values which will take place as the pollution of the Lake of
Tunis is reduced. To ensure maximum benefit, land use studies must be carried
out to ascertain the best use of the land and a coordinated program of develop--
ment must be formulated.
8.        Under the District Organization Decree, the District should conclude
agreements with the public agencies undertaking investment programs in Greater
Tunis. No such agreement has yet been concluded. The Urban Sewerage Project
provides the framework for the conclusion of the first agreement, which will
constitute an important precedent. The Bank's cooperation with both parties
should assist in this regard. The agreement should provide a continuing dia-
logue between the two agencies and ensure that ONAS' capital budget is con-
sistent with the overall growth pattern and strategy for Greater Turns, thus
permitting new sewerage proposals to Le annually reviewed.
9.        The agreement should also contain reporting arrangements and pro-
cedures for handling major changes in agreed programs and arrangements for
the District to ensure that investment execution follows agreed planning.
The Tunis District will have a specific responsibility to plan the future
development of the Tunis Lake area without the constraint imposed by the
lack of pollution control facilities. Its study would be undertaken with
the assistance of consultants; funds have been provided for this purpose



Page 3
in the cost estimates. Agreement has been reached that within three years of
the date of the Loan Agreement, the District will review with the Bank land-
use plans for the future use of the Lake area and that within the five years
the Government will take the legal action necessary to promulgate and there-
after ensure that development proceeds in accordance with these plans (Plans
d'Amenagement).
10.       The detailed terms of reference for the land use studies will have
to be prepared by the District and the consultants. The terms of reference
should:
(a) seek within broad limits to define the area of analysis;
(b) provide for physical and land use surveys of the Lake area;
(c) envisage discussions by the District with Government and
municipal authorities on the development options for the
riparian land;
(d) foresee preparation of detailed alternative proposals for
optimum economic land use;
(e) provide for preparation in detail of the chosen development
strategy with an accompanying justification for the use of
the riparian land; establish a phased development program
and undertake a cash flow analysis and prepare sketches and
models describing these proposals;
(f) prepare proposals for any changes in organizational arrange-
ments to facilitate development of the Lake area;
(g) prepare the supporting legislation which would be required
to implement the proposals, including Plans d'Amenagement,
foUowing the selection by the District's Council of the
preferred development option.






IBRD 11174
a ;'                  7          llo¢                             1,l;          AUGUST  1974
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                          Me diterranean                   Sea
LOCATION OF PROJECT ZONE
_St   a                                       <          E              gé~~~~~~~Bor9tb  Bososb  Gu/f            -- ce
ofu/ sf Hammamet
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  oGansooada.
ll I E \< 0 A D />Ks~ourgu,baf
~~~~~~~~~~~AA. Drna    Bel                                     :                                 /Kse rie                  -mne < 
S  J   i                     /                                \                 \    ,-              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'YKERKENNA
:   -    .>  t         /                                                        o : fax        ,>) rv 9~~~~~~~~ ISLANDS
D                 av
on thu nu,, O-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onsi
a0000 ,             -' a                                    ,\                                           D a   
NTL RNATI NAe AI-', K`,
Au,  <tt F«n   RsQ tf ptlth C                                                                              | -\ IVER
LARES ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ISAD
t§<RrS[,8uittttttdBett9tet tt_f I-   -- -INENTOA  BOUOAIE
X/         \                                | . !    RA~~~~~          ~~                    ~~~~IES Y  Reoohoin ada  
It   f   f  \                           4     PORTS                                I               /  >                   /->-~Gul of    abe
I                 9,    C0           AKES                                                                 OF
Q~~  ...  4 INTERNATIONAL 80UNDARIES DJERB
RAKILOMETERS                                 t               +
.NTERNATONAL __IRPOR ITS                                                  -      :






IBRD 11175R
ARIANA                                                   ~
TUNISIA
-*-INT8R NAT ,'A   ~IjByA
8"BOURN
The boeoodl ow on hU fp dv flot
onePIY  endoflrs W nir  -ccpta-   by  the
horeddine                         f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~old~ Bo-k en is offi1Wcoo
FIRST URBAN' SEWERAGE PROJECI
LAND AREAS BORDERING L(AKE OF TUNIS
O         ~~BENEFITTING  DIRECTkY  FROM  PRQJECT
~A                  BNEFITTING
R~ieD APRE A  NS1DERb B
ROADS
MEGRINE                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAiLW6A<$
KIL0METERS 2            3~
MILES
DECEMBER 1974






Abu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ --n -'1
/  g   t :5l'  i f                     H                       \:                                C 5                                             W                                   CY /....*
I V f d ; ; f * O I E > . I _ Sg Et X f ;U , )A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               -"G-E 
:  ;  :  1  X   1   1   1                           R  y                 Ç   ;   g     m                       ,SS  a     C    O      -N`'eWL:E~~~~~~~r* p:"*  l  0  ;9
5:                                                            : y:            >,                                1:'-l                              `,-   zf                I~






IBRD 11212
(~~~~~A  NOUB  /LE  ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~LA ~~~NGOULJETTE                                      OPEBR17
J X ~~~~~~~~~~A                                     D                                                                  \L ok    o!    :florna   t               -          ys,  
`/ > '"`'"oX,  ""\s\S ,TUNIS                                                           '                              ( ,
,,   \            \       /                                    R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MÎIN                                                f  /
IBRD  11213                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L FOUCHANAE
! /~C3 É, ' ' 2   `.La Mao7R  '-N.) TJl<S        e                             EXISTING                        PROJECT
NORTli COASTAL ZONE             "Z                                                          | ,OLE3                                    6 SEEWENs                       TUNISIA
SE E COES  MAI  RO  -                                      ______
_TREATEDSEWAGEDISCHARGE _FIRST  URBAN   SEWERAGE  PROJECT
=   / ,'   v           9                  }                                       I     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STORMORAINS  ......
I O SEO,MTATIUNS                              TUNIS DISTRICT,   SOUTH COASTAL PART
!EIAo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C~ ~ ~~ ~,p~ .A  F.: <           `t                    TUNISIS.,                          \INER EPINSTTI                                                                                FLRST STAGE
SEWUSETOREATUENT PLANT  l                                          S   TG
U N 1 S 1 A                                    l~~~~~~~~~~ITESEFPTOR CNALNS    -
IBRD 11212                                                                                                                                      STSEM*_TER_OESCELMS E
*   STOREMUTER O  FO
TOR ;i'ROVES                                      0       1       2 3           4
oF                  .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      T.....  OURIS. PROUEC ZON E 90USUUS- (EUNIS SOUTH)                          1 iLO  ER
-  IUSORIT BOUNUARIES                                                  MILES
.L, t \  9                                  X, rUNv1T 2Z Y A  MUNICIPAL BOUN9ARIES M
-~            i                           ESOUTH I1 L I B Y A                                        EUILT UPAEAS
_  . -SOU11211Tg ZCLNE  ` S   T      $   X            TS                        r R  2 | e RAILPOADS
RD 11211 )  ZONE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERUU






IBRD 11213
.; . t:H5 ;n;:1 ,:ge!f: :82 Xg / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMEER  974
IBRD  11213                         IBRD  1i              /                              */S
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~UI
N    HOASTAL    :       ti                                    NA!,   ym/\\                                                                 <..                 < ;`.
ZONE
0T11'N  1 S 1
IBRD 11212                               jf                                                                    0         3-
ASTAL h      1 g   L                         , I N                                                              /,              \ 
TUNISIA                                                                                                                                                                                          N                            GP 10
FIRST URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT /
TUNIS DISTRICT, CENTRAL COASTAL PART -/
FIRST STAGE                                                                _     -                                                                                       \
EXISTING                           PROJECI                                                                                                                                                                              --
-       GRAVITYCOLLECTORSEWERS  -                                                                                                                                                                                      /
--- ---    SEWERFRCE MAINS         ------                                                                                                                                          ARIANA
TREATEDSEWAG DISCHARGE  -    \                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r/
SOTONU RAINS      .....-.
PUMPINdSTATIONS
SEINAAETREATMENTPLANSTS    siÇ                             "
INTEOEPTOR CANALS                                                                                                                                                                                         El Aouino
ARCHIIMEDEASOESCROWPUMS  |   //*\ »  ror, i
STORMWlATERD VERLOWS  *\
*        ff OZfORRPEOASS<1 
...TOURISMPROJECTZONE OSNOARY (TUAIS NORTIHI
M    -     NNICIPAL SOUNWA 5
BUILO-URAREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                     . L*         o    T s
RAI I Rl RA,
d d7->T, /' \ ' m %,f1P: 2 j: :::; ' :4, :: ES i                                                                                                                                                     x  i  :\
O  I    TI                                                                , I                                 \M
A\                                          /                 .'E:,'E":-:S2pla tnr
I  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



