CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1088 TUN
Project Agreement
(First Urban Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1088 TUN
Project Agreement
(First Urban Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and DISTRICT DE TUNIS (hereinafter called the District).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the District agree to undertake,
on the occasion of the carrying out of Part H of the Project, such obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to the District for the execution of Part
H of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth in the Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the District, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part H of the Project
Section 2.01. The District shall carry out Part H of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
planning, programming and supervision practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist the District in the preparation of the land
use studies and the Plans d'Ame'nagement referred to in Part H of the Project,
the District shall employ no later than June 30, 1975 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree) consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, (i) the District shall
cause all services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to the
District by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part H of the Project until
its completion; (ii) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of Part
H of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part H of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.04. No later than three years after the date of this Agreement
(or such other date as the Bank may agree) the District shall submit to the Borrower
and the Bank for their review the land use studies and its proposals for the Plans
d'Amenagement referred to in Part H of the Project.
Section 2.05. No later than four months after the date of this Agreement
(or such other date as the Bank may agree) the District shall, pursuant to paragraph
3 of Article 7 of the Borrower's Decree No. 73-604 of November 25, 1973, enter
into an agreement acceptable to the Bank with ONAS for the purpose of defining
their mutual relationship and responsibilities in the carrying out of the Project
and in the planning and carrying out of ONAS investment program in the District.
Section 2.06. (a) The District shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part H of the Project, and
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)   The District shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part H of the Project,
or the performance by the District of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the District
Section 3.01. The District shall, at all times, manage its affairs, plan its future
expansion and carry orn its operations, all in accordance with appropriate


﻿5
administrative, financial, engineering, and urban planning, programming and
supervision practices, under the supervision of competent management assisted by
qualified and competent personnel in adequate number.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
the District thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date on which the Borrower has promulgated under its laws
and regulations the Plans d'Am6nagement referred to under Part
H1 of the Project.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify the District of this event.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿6
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the District:
District de Tunis
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:
DISTU
Tunis
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the District or under the Loan Agreement by the District on behalf of the
Borrower may be taken or executed by its Directeur Gdndral or such other person
or persons as such Directeur General shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The District shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the District take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the District pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s / Munir P. Benjenk    Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DISTRICT DE TUNIS
By /s / Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative


