CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1088 TUN
Project Agreement
(First Urban Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1088 TUN
Project Agreement
(First Urban Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 18, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT (hereinafter called ONAS).
WHEREAS ONAS is an tablissement public a caract re industriel et
commercial established and operating in accordance with the Borrower's Law
No. 74-73, dated August 3, 1974;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ONAS agree tb undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ONAS, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to ONAS on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ONAS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrwer, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ONAS shall carry out Parts A through G of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
90


﻿4
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ONAS (i) in the preparation of plans and
specifications for Parts A, B, D and F of the Project, in the preparation of bidding
documents for Parts A, B, D and F of the Project, in the supervision of the
construction of Parts A, B, D and F of the Project, (ii) in the carrying out of
Part G of the Project, and (iii) in the establishment of its organization under Part
A of the Project, ONAS shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ONAS undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ONAS
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ONAS shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ONAS shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts A through G of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   ONAS: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts A through G of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A through G of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts A through G of the Project,


﻿5
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   ONAS shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of ONAS and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. ONAS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ONAS shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ONAS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section ONAS shall, in order to monitor
project performance against targets, no later than six months after the date of
this Agreement (or such other date as the Bank may agree), prepare in consultation
with the Bank a monitoring program, thereafter implement such a program, collect
data from all available sources, and include all such information in quarterly reports
to be made to the Bank, the first of such quarterly reports to be submitted to
the Bank no later than December 31, 1975. Such monitoring program shall cover,
inter alia, the items contained in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)   ONAS shall promptly inform    the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A through G of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by ONAS of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) ONAS shall, as and when potential customers shall so
request, make arrangements to install or cause to be installed sewerage connections
and extensions in areas served by ONAS sewerage infrastructure, and shall charge
customers such investment costs as are incurred by ONAS.
(b)   As and when potential low-income customers of ONAS located in areas
served by ONAS' sewerage infrastructure shall so request, ONAS shall when making
the arrangements for installation of the facilities referred to under the foregoing


﻿6
paragraph (a) of this Section provide adequate financing to such customers for
the cost of the installation of said facilities and shall collect through installments
said cost from said customers.
Section 2.09. ONAS shall, no later than four months after the date of this
Agreement (as such other date as the Bank may agree) enter into an agreement,
acceptable to the Bank, with the District as provided under Section 2.05 of the
District Project Agreement.
Section 2.10. ONAS shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in Parts A through
G of the Project and shall furnish, as and when the Bank shall so reasonably request,
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
Parts A through G of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONAS
Section 3.01. (a) ONAS shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business, financial and public utility practices and under
the supervision of competent management, and shall exchange views with the Bank
before making any material modifications in its organization and administrative
structure.
(b)   ONAS shall recruit, appoint and maintain sufficient qualified staff to
enable it to conduct its operations efficiently.
(c)   ONAS shall no later than one year after the date of this Agreement
(or such other date as the Bank may agree) establish a training unit within its
organization, and exchange views with the Bank on its detailed personnel training
program.
Section 3.02. Unless the Bank and ONAS shall otherwise agree:
(a)   ONAS shall create and maintain inter alia within its organization the
position of Deputy Director General and the position of Director of Finance and
Administration and shall, after consultation with the Bank appoint (i) no later
than four months after the date of this Agreement (or such other date as the


﻿7
Bank may agree) the Director of Finance and Administration, and (ii) no later
than one year after the date of this Agreement (or such other date as the Bank
may agree) the Deputy Director General; and
(b)   during the period the Project is being carried out and before making
any new appointment to the positions referred to under paragraph (a) of this
Section, ONAS shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
on such proposed appointment.
Section 3.03. ONAS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice or shall make other provisions against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) ONAS shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(b)   ONAS shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ONAS shall obtain title to
all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
free and clear of all encumbrances.
(d)   ONAS shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ONAS shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ONAS shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish


﻿8
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall h4-e reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ONAS and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ONAS shall make arrangements with SONEDE acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of establishing a joint billing and tariff
collection mechanism.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ONAS shall set and
maintain tariffs for its sewerage services at such levels and thereafter take all such
steps as shall be necessary (including, but without limitation, adjustments of its
tariffs), to provide, during each fiscal year, ONAS, with funds from internal sources
equivalent to at least 4%  of the net value of its fixed assets including work in
progress.
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)          "funds from internal sources" shall be calculated in respect of
each fiscal year by subtracting from gross revenues the sum of
the following: all costs of operation (excluding depreciation),
adequate maintenance and administration; interest and other
charges on debt; repayment of loans (including sinking fund
payments, if any); increases in working capital other than cash;
and all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes not included in
operating expenses;
(ii)        "net value of its fixed assets including work in progress" shall
mean the average between the gross value of fixed assets at the
beginning and at the end of each fiscal year as determined for
each fiscal year in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation and revaluation acceptable to
the Bank, less accumulated depreciation but including the value
of investment in assets not yet in service; and
(iii)        "gross revenues" includes: all revenues accruing to ONAS from
all sources relating to sewerage operations (including revenues
derived from the collection of tariffs and related revenues), the
Levies, and the Subsidies.


﻿9
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ONAS shall not incur any debt unless its net revenue for the fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ending
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is greater, shall not be less than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding year on all
the debt of ONAS, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the term  "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by ONAS, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less
than one year after its incurrence;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt;
(iii)      the term "net revenue" means gross revenue of ONAS, adjusted
to take account of tariffs, Subsidies and Levies in effect at the
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenue relates, less all operating expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses,
but before depreciation, and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)       the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund provisions),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)        whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by ONAS at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or if such other
currency is not obtainable, at a rate of exchange reasonably
determined by the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.06. ONAS shall: (a) establish an inventory of all assets transferred
to it by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the
Loan Agreement, as and when such transfer is made, and such inventory shall
be valued in accordance with methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank and


﻿10
the Borrower within two years (or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank
may agree) of their takeover by ONAS; and (b) thereafter from time to time revalue
its assets, including, but without limitation, those referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, in accordance with methods of revaluation as shall be consistent with
appropriate public utility practice of the Borrower.
Section 4.07. If the completion of the Project is hindered or delayed, or
is threatened with hindrance or delay, because the funds available to ONAS are
inadequate to ensure its completion, ONAS shall promptly request that the
Borrower provide ONAS, or cause ONAS to be provided, with the necessary funds
as and when required, in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.08. ONAS shall take all such action as may be required on its
part to collect the Levies.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ONAS
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿11
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For ONAS:
Office National de l'Assainissement
8 Rue du Senegal
Tunis
Cable address:
ONASTU
Tunis
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ONAS or under the Loan Agreement by ONAS on behalf of the Borrower
may be taken or executed by its President Directeur General or such other person
or persons as such President Directeur General shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ONAS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of ONAS, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by ONAS pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s/ M:nir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
By /s / Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for'Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Pank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a) Contracts for civil works and equipment for the renovation and increase
in capacity of the Cherguia sewage treatment plant referred to under Part D of
the Project may be entered into with the original contractors for such plant,
provided, however, that the amount of all works and equipment to be so contracted
shall not exceed in the aggregate the amount of Dtl,500,000 equivalent.
(b)   Minor contracts for maintenance and supply of equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of Dt25,000 or less, may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures advertised locally provided, however, that the
amount of all items to be procured in accordance with such procedures shall not
exceed in the aggregate the amount of Dt250,000 equivalent.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to ONAS of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tunisia shall be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which shall be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿14
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of ONAS and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tunisia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the supply of equipment and of pipes
estimated to cost the equivalent of Dt20,000 or more, and for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of Dtl00,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ONAS shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding


﻿15
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, ONAS shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ONAS shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
arid shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ONAS and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited (if any).
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fuirnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to ihe Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, ONAS shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ONAS
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Summary of Monitoring Criteria
The following criteria shall amongst others be monitored to determine
whether the Project is fulfilling its objectives:
A.    Physical Criteria
-     total cumulative sewer connections
-     percentage of urban water customers served by ONAS
-     variations in dissolved oxygen levels in the Lake of Tunis
B.    Public Health Criteria
-     incidence of typhoid and paratyphoid in Tunisia and in the Greater
Tunis area.
C.    Financial Criteria
-     rate of return
-     internal cash generation
-     average operating expenses per:
(a)   sewer connection
(b)   cubic meters of water consumed by connected customers
-     variations in the value of land surrounding the Lake of Tunis


