Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIL USiE ONLY
Repot No. 11995
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 2415-IN)
JUNE 15, 1993
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Technical Department
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY ZOUIVALENT
Currency Unit      =     Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1.00           =     Paise 100
US$ 1.00           =     Rs. 28.01
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBRZVIATIONS
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
FCI         Fertilizer Corporation of India
FICC        Fertilizer Industry Coordinator Committee
GOI         Government of India
GAIL        Gas Authority of India Limited
MP          Madhya Pradesh
NFL         National Fertilizer Limited
OECF        Overseas Economic Corporation Fund
PDIL        Projects Development India Limited
tpd         Ton per day
tph         Ton per hour
MMCMD       Million cubic meters per day
MINAS       Minimum National Discharge Standards
Ncm         Normal cubic meter
SCF         Standard conversion factor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offico of Diretor-Goneral
Operations Evaluation
June 15, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on India
Madhva Pradesh Fertilizer ProJect (Loan 2415-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project (Loan
2415-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The PCR is of high quality. It gives a clear account of implementation experience and discusses
all the pertinent issues. It concludes that original objective of expanding nitrogenous fertilizer capacity,
using the vast and newly developed Bombay High and South Bassein natural gas resources as feedstock,
has been more than fully met; and that the problems encountered during implementation were expeditiously
and professionally resolved. The result was an industrial facility that was completed on schedule and 36
percent below appraised cost.
Thanks to the generous engineering design of the ammonia plant and the technical and managerial
capability of National Fertlizer Limited (NFL-the Beneficiary), the plant has been operating efficiently at
more than 110 percent of its nominal production capacity since commissioning. The project was
deservedly awarded first prize for excellence by the Ministry of Program Implementation of the
Government of India.
The project, constructed at Vijaipur, had adequate environmental provisions and an impact
assessment carried out four years after the plant's commissioning concluded that the Vijaipur's pollution
control measures and systems are effective and all effluents are within limits specified by Minimum
National Discharge Standards. In addition, NFL has developed and implemented a detailed disaster plan
in Vijaipur.
Although the project had highly satisfactory overall results and its sustainability is not in doubt,
its actual prospects are ded to the availability of natural gas in sufficient quantities-within a context of very
high demand for gas in the western regions of India.
The project included a study to rehabilitate two large coal-based ammonia plants owned by the
Fertilizer Corporation of India. The Bank concluded that, under the current and foreseeable market
conditions, new investments in these plants were not economically jusdfied. However, there may be other
options in the future for the Bank to remain a partner in expanding India's fertlizer production capacity
if an agreement could be reached on fertilizer pricing and subsidies. The 30 percent increase in the
controlled price of ferdlizers in July 1991, and the subsequent decontrol of the price of phosphatic and
potassic fertilizers in August 1992 represent promising steps in this direction.
No audit of this project is planned.
Attachment
This docummnt has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. its contents
may not oterwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.






FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INIDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Loan 2415-IN}
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .i
EVALUATION SUMMAR .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity .1..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Background .1...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               2
Project Objectives.                                                     2
Project Description   ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Design and Organization  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Organization and Implementation of the Rehabilitation Study  . .               3
Project Implementation .... . . . . . ..                                       3
Implementation Schedule   ...  .       .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Main Problems Resolved During Implementation  . . . . . . .              4
Procurement ..                                                          5
Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              5
Financing   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Allocation of Bank Funds ... . . . . ..                                  6
Disbursement Schedule   ...  .       .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
Market Development and Seeding Program  . . . . . . . . . .              7
Operation Preparation            ..                                      7
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               7
Project Objectives and Physical Results   . . . . . . . . .             7
Market  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    ..S....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  a
Economic rates of return ... . . . . ..                                  8
Financial Rate of Return  ...  .       .  .  .    ..9...  .  .  .  .    .  9
Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
Environmental Impact  ....  .        .  .    ..1.0...  .  .  .  .  .    .  lo
Disaster Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            10
Project Impact  ....  .       .  .  .  .    ..0..   ....... .          lo
Project Sustainability ....  .         .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
Bank Performance ....  .        .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Borrower and NFL (the Beneficiary) Performance . . . . . . . . .              12
Project Relationship ....  .         .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
Consulting Services  ....  .         .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
Project Documentation and Data ...  .         .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PZRSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .              14
Confirmation of Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              14
Bank's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              14
Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              14
Project Relationship ....  .         .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Relationship with and Performance of Cofinanciers  . . . . . . .              14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Bank Group Operations in the Fertilizer Sector . . . . . . . . .    15
Project Timetable.                   . . .  . .                   16
Loan Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Project Implementation .. .18
Project Costs and Financing .      ... .19
A. Project Costs (in Rs) . .                                 19
B.  Project Costs (in USS).      .        . . . . . .        20
C.  Capital Costs - Phasing of Expenditures  . . . . . . .    21
D. Project Financing.            .            . . . .    22
E. Bank Financing.           . ...........    23
Project  Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
A.  Direct Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Economic Impact.                     . . . . . . . ..25
C.  Financial Impact .                                       27
D. Study .                                                   28
Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
A.    Staff  Inputs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
B. Missions ................                                 30
Status of Covenants  .     .. . ......... .    31
ANNEXES
1-1  India-Projected & Actual Nitrogen Supply/Demand Balance      33
1-2  Total Marketing Program & Market Share   .     .34
2-1  Import Parity of Urea and Economic Value of Natural Gas      35
2-2 Economic Rate of Return .. .36
2-3 Financial Rate of Return.. .... .37
2-4  Retention Price Calculation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
3    Financial Performance of NFL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
4  Environmental Aspects .. .               .40
5    PCR's  File    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Loan 2415-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Madhya Pradesh
Fertilizer Project in India, for which Loan 2415-IN, in the amount of US$203.6
million, was approved on May 17, 1984. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1992,
three  years  behind  schedule.       Due  to  a  reduction  in  total  financing
requirements, a total of US$36.5 million was canceled, reducing the Bank Loan to
US$167.1 million. As of December 31, 1992, a total of US$166.2 million had been
disbursed and the loan had an undisbursed balance of US$0.9 million. However,
US$0.5 million out of special account has to be refunded to the Bank, which would
reduce total disbursed amount to US$165.7 million and increase concellation to
US$37.9 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division
of the Asia Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and Part
III), and National Fertilizer Limited, the Beneficiary (Part II) . A copy of the
PCR has been sent to the project co-financiers, the Overseas Economic Cooperative
Fund (OECF), of Japan, and the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA),
of Denmark, for their information.
Preparation of the PCR started during a project completion mission in India
in November 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; the Bank project files; and
information prepared by NFL.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 2415-IN)
ZVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective.
1.    The main objective of the project was to expand domestic nitrogenous
fertilizer capacity, in order to lessen India's dependence on imports, taking
advantage of the vast and newly developed Bombay High natural gas resources as
economic feedstock. The location of a large nitrogenous fertilizer plant in the
state of Madhya Pradesh (MP), also aimed at stimulating fertilizer consumption
in that state, whose agricultural potential was then under-utilized, by providing
easier access to fertilizer.   Finally, the project aimed at facilitating the
rehabilitation of under-utilized plant capacity, through the preparation of
rehabilitation study of two coal-based plants (para. 3.1).
Iwlementation zxDerience
2.    National Fertilizer Limited (NFL) has designed, organized and implemented
the project professionally. Mechanical completion and start-up of the complex
occurred on November 5, 1987, about two months ahead of the Bank's original
appraisal schedule.   Commercial production was declared on July 1, 1988, and
Completion occurred slightly ahead of the Loan Agreement date of September 30,
1988. However, implementation of three additional project components, accepted
by the Bank in the course of project implementation suffered substantial delays
and caused the closing date to be postponed three times from June 30, 1989 to
June 30, 1992. These delays were due to late final Government approvals of these
investments (paras. 6.1 and 6.2)
3.    Several problems were encountered during implementation. All were detected
on time and efficiently resolved by the project team of NFL without any
significant impact on the overall project schedule, and within budget. These
included: (a) delays in the supply by the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL) of gas
for power and steam generation;  (b) delays in the supply of water from the
Ruthiai Dam; (c) unexpected rocky subsoil on site; (d) error in the detailed
engineering drawing for the concrete of the synthesis gas compressor, detected
after its construction; and (e) inadequate road infrastructure for transport from
the Kandla port to site (1,265 kms) of the 410 tons ammonia converter (para.
6.4).
4.     Procurement  was  carried out  efficiently and without delays,  using
competitive bidding procedures for both international and local procurement.
Actual financing requirements were 15% below appraisal estimates in Rupees and
amounted to Rs. 5,370 million versus Rs. 6,304 million at appraisal (US$397.5
million versus US$618.0 million).  The main reasons for these underruns were
important reductions of import duties and interest during construction, and in
fact, excluding taxes and duties, the actual total installed cost of the project
as originally designed was only 3% below appraisal estimates (paras. 6.6 and
6.7). Due to this large reduction in the project total financing requirements,
a total of US$36.5 million was canceled, reducing the Bank Loan to US$167.1
million (para. 6.11).
5.    Also, it appears that total funds relent by GOI to NFL from the Bank loan
and other cofinancing sources were substantially below appraisal estimates.
Furthermore, a large portion of the loan proceeds, though transferred to the
Government, was not relent to NFL, and may thus be considered as having been



- iv -
used to finance GOI equity contribution to the project (which was transferred to
NFL in the originally planned amounts)'. Main reasons for this deviation are the
substantial reduction in project costs, and a substantial increase in NFL's
contribution to the project from its own resources (para. 6.8).
Prolect Results
6.    Overall, the project objectives were more than fully met.  The plant was
completed on schedule and below cost, and has since been operated efficiently at
more than 110% of its nominal production capacity. NFL started its commercial
operation on time, and has developed adequate markets for the Vijaipur plant,
and, through a seeding and education program, has expanded the fertilizer use in
the state of Madhya Pradesh to more than the level that was expected. It is
estimated that the plants are, during their entire economic life, capable of
maintaining a sustained 110% capacity utilization (para. 7.1).
7.    The project economic rate of return (ERR) is now estimated at 31% and is
substantially higher than the base case of 18.6% estimated at appraisal. The
difference is mainly due to a substantially higher economic value of natural gas
estimated at appraisal. For reasons given below, the project financial rate of
return (FRR) is estimated at 15.6%, slightly lower than the appraisal estimates
of 16.6% (paras. 7.6 and 7.7).
8.    The Vijaipur urea plant is taxed by the retention price scheme and by the
gas pricing system: the project could reach a FRR of more than 21% if the
fertilizer sector was deregulated -- the urea retention price of Rs. 3,733 per
ton for the pricing period 1991/93 is much lower than its international import
parity of Rs. 5,727 per ton in 1991/92 and Rs. 4,841 per ton in 1992/93; and the
price paid for natural gas of Rs. 2,739 per thousand Ncm since January 1992 is
significantly above its equivalent economic value of Rs. 2,014 per thousand Ncm
(para. 7.9).
9.    The project also included a study to rehabilitate two large coal-based
ammonia plants at Ramagundam and Talcher, owned by the Fertilizer Corporation of
India (FCI). The study was carried out by Krupp-Koppers, of Germany at a cost
of US$2.7 million. The Bank, after review of the consultant's study, concluded
that these investments were not economically viable and advised GOI to consider
closing down these plants, at least until international urea prices improve
(para. 5.1). The Government has yet to take a definitive action on the matter -
- these two plants continue to operate at very low rate of capacity utilization
(23% and 32% in 1989/90 respectively for Ramagundam and Talcher).
Invironmental Aspects
10.   Adequate effluent treatment and discharge facilities were constructed in
accordance with Indian environmental standards, which are comparable to standards
applied for such installations in industrialized countries and/or other
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank.  Furthermore, to overcome the
risk of water shortage and problem of liquid effluent disposal during the dry
season the plants were designed for maximum   recovery and reuse of liquid
effluents and are equipped with sophisticated water treatment installations
(Annex 4-para. 5).
11.   In addition to the compulsory initial environment assessment on the basis
of which the project was designed, a comprehensive environment impact assessment
(EIA) of the plant was prepared in 1987/88 by the National Environment
I      The Bank has referred to GOI on this subject and is awaiting its
clarification.



v 
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). The study was prepared on the basis of
data collected before and after commissioning of the plant. NFL implemented most
of the recommendations of the NEERI's EIA, including: (i) the plantation of a
green belt of about 100,000 trees which has been developed using treated liquid
effluent; and (ii) the replacement, of chromate inhibitor for the treatment of
cooling water by a more  expensive phosphate-based  inhibitor.    Also,  NFL
implemented additional investments: (i) an additional 5,000 tons double wall
ammonia storage for increased safety; (ii) a purge gas system to reduce energy
consumption and emission of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere; and (iii) a
reverse osmosis plant for the treatment of cooling water blowdown (para. 7.13).
12.   A new EIA study, carried out by NERRI during 1992 after four years of
operation, concluded that the Vijaipur's pollution control measures and systems
are effective and all effluents are within limits specified by Minimun National
Discharge Standards (MINAS) (paras. 7.12 to 7.14 and Annex 4) -- its main
conclusions are: (i) overall air quality within and around the fertilizer complex
is well within the limits specified by MINAS; (ii) the quality of treated
effluent is well within the limit of MINAS, and all effluents are used for
irrigation of green belt and in-plant horticulture; and (iii) the noise level is
also well below the limit of MINAS.
Disaster Manaaement
13.   NFL has developed and implemented a detailed disaster plan in Vijaipur,
which includes an emergency plan, an evacuation plan and an emergency pollution
control plan. Also, as part of the 1992 EIA, NFL is undertaking a risk assessment
study leading to the review of the current disaster management plan (para. 7.15)
Prolect Sustainabilitv
14.   If, in line with the present trend for economic policy reform, GOI decided
to deregulate the fertilizer sector, at projected import parity prices, the NFL's
Vijaipur plant would be able to withstand competition from imports even in the
absence of protective tariffs, and while paying natural gas at its fuel oil
equivalent economic value  (para. 7.10).  The major risk still faced by the
project is that, in order to reduce the financial burden of the fertilizer
subsidy, GOI may decide to revise urea retention price norms further downwards -
- the project would have an FRR of only 6% if the retention price of urea for
Vijaipur were to be reduced by 20W.  However, the implementation of NFL's
investment program, and/or the duplication of the Vijaipur plant if economically
viable and if adequate and sufficient gas supply is made available, would further
improve the project's sustainability (para. 8.1).
15.   In the long term, sustainable operation of the plant is also a function of
adequate supplies of natural gas feedstock and efficient operation of the HBJ
pipeline. The project utilizes a maximum of 1.72 million cubic meters per day
(MMCMD) of natural gas out of 18 MMCMD of gas currently transported by the HBJ
pipeline, the capacity of which can be further increased to 33 MMCMD. There is
in the western region an excess demand of natural gas (potential total supply is
estimated at 61-75 MMCMD and potential demand at 91 MMCMD), the bulk of which is
used by the fertilizer and the power sectors, where the demand is mainly
generated by investment decisions taken by the Government. Furthermore, this
does not pose any risk for Vijaipur's operation as a long term supply contract
was signed between NFL and the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) on October
9, 1991 (para. 8.2).
16.   Also,  the  project  has  been  implemented  and  is  operated  in  an
environmentally sound manner. The company is aware of the risks of such plants
and has taken the necessary safety measures, therefore, the risks of problems
with local communities are small.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
17.   The NFL project was awarded  first prize  for excellence  in project
implementation by the Minister of Program Implementation in 1989, and was
highlighted by GOI as an example of a well implemented and operated industrial
complex in the fertilizer sector (para. 4.2).  The success of this project
illustrates the importance, in the implementation of any large public or private
sector project, of a number of key factors, which include (paras. 4.2 and 9.2):
(a)   a dedicated high-quality project team, established from the start,
headed by a project manager, with autonomy and authority, in charge
of project preparation, management, coordination and supervision.
Furthermore, whenever possible, the same team should organize and
take the responsibility for plant operation later-on;
(b)   a professionally competent planning and monitoring group, and a
quality control group, all supported by a well designed project
management system based on a detailed project execution plan;
(c)   a  strong  procurement  management  system,  based  on  competitive
bidding;
(d)   organizational arrangements in place at the early stage of the
project to prepare the future operation of the plant, and develop
the market for project output early during the implementation phase;
(e)   an  effective  financial  incentive  scheme  contributing  to  the
commitment of all levels of management at the project; and
(f)   availability of sufficient and timely funds.
18.   Nevertheless, while the project was successful in meeting its objectives,
it could, in an adequate economic environment, have been implemented without the
help of the Bank. The Bank's major objective in this project was to support GOI
strategy to increase domestic production of fertilizer, however, the important
fertilizer sector issues in India were not addressed under this project, except
for obtaining a vague commitment from GOI, during the project preparation stages,
to reduce total fertilizer subsidies.  The Bank could have adopted a broader
sectoral approach at the early stages of project appraisal.   In fact, this
project was one of the last two Bank operations in the sector. The reform
measures proposed by the Bank were considered too radical by GOI, and the policy
dialogue in the fertilizer sector between GOI and the Bank ceased around 1987.
Now that GOI has recognized the need to address sectorial issues, it may be the
time for GOI and the Bank to renew a fruitful dialogue. GOI could benefit from
recent and on-going Bank experiences in helping other countries in restructuring
their fertilizer sector (para. 9.2).
19.    Another lesson was that substantial cost savings could have been achieved
by dividing the rehabilitation study of the two coal-based plants into two
phases, each preferably implemented by separate consultants, in order to avoid
possible conflicts of interest. The first phase could have consisted of a pre-
feasibility study and the second phase of final design and feasibility study if
justified by the results of the first phase (para. 5.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 2415-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Name:         Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project
Loan Number:  2415-IN
RVP Unit:     South Asia Region
Country:       India
Sector:        Industry
2.        Background
2.1       The agricultural policy of the Government of India  (GOI) aims at
ensuring increased food production, towards self-sufficiency. The objective of
further expanding fertilizer use, which has grown from 70,000 tons per year of
nutrients in 1950/51 to more than 12.5 million tons in 1990/91, is an important
part of GOI strategy to increase agricultural output. Eight development plans
have given priority to the development of the fertilizer industry to ensure a
sustained supply of fertilizers, substitute for imports, and expedite the
achievement  of agricultural  self-sufficiency.    As  a result,  the bulk of
nitrogenous fertilizer consumed in India is domestically produced (87% for
1990/91) and large amounts of phosphate fertilizers are also produced by the
domestic industry, largely from imported inputs (67% of total supply in 1990/91);
however, the entire national consumption of potassic fertilizer is imported.
2.2       The policy framework of the fertilizer sector is one of the most
complex in India -- with tight Government control of feedstock and most output
pricing, of market allocations,  and of fertilizer distribution.   Government
policies also limit the choice of technology, feedstock, plant location, project
execution arrangements and financing, and allocation of production licenses
between the public, joint, cooperative, and private sectors.   The fertilizer
pricing policy is characterized by: (i) low and uniform farmgate prices (Rs.
2,760 per ton of urea since July 1992); (ii) producer prices set ex-factory for
each plant's output (retention prices) to cover almost all production costs on
the basis of a combination of actual and normative costs and to provide a post-
tax return of 12% of total equity; and (iii) a budgetary subsidy to bridge the
gap between the price paid by the farmer and the price paid to the producers.
Retention prices for urea plants currently in operation range between Rs. 2,250
and Rs. 6,147 per ton, and averaged about Rs. 3,560 per ton in 1991 (Rs. 3,733
per ton for the Madhya Pradesh Project for the three year pricing period ending
FY 1992/93) -- most of the Indian urea producers presently receive ex-factory
prices that are within the range of landed prices of imported urea (about US$180
per ton of bagged urea in November 1992, or Rs. 5040 at an exchange rate of
Rs. 28 per US$).
2.3       This policy has permitted India to develop a large domestic fertilizer
production -- India is today the fourth largest fertilizer producer in the world
-- and positively contributed to reaching the country's targeted large increases
in foodgrain production.   However this policy has also resulted in the growth
of the fertilizer subsidy to an unsustainable level (Rs. 44 billion in 1992/93);
and in the survival of a few uneconomical fertilizer operations.   GOI has
recently recognized the need to address sectorial issues, but until now limited
its action to the implementation of some timid and somewhat conflicting
recommendations of a Joint Parliamentary Committee on Fertilizer Pricing: (i)
full decontrol of pricing and distribution of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer;



(ii) a 10% reduction in the controlled farmgate price of urea; and (iii)
reimposition of price and distribution controls on lower analysis nitrogenous
fertilizer which had been decontrolled since July 1991. These measures may in
fact ac-entuate the already existing distortions in relative consumption of
nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic fertilizer. Furthermore, more recently (and
probably under the pressure of the farming community), GOI has granted a direct
subsidy of Rs. 1000 per ton of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer.    The only
positive consequence of these measures is an increased transparency of the
subsidy paid for phosphatic and potassic fertilizer.
2.4        The Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer project is an integral part of GOI's
plans to utilize associated and non-associated gas from the Bombay High and South
Bassein offshore oil and gas fields, for use as feedstock for petrochemical and
fertilizer plants in the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The project is one of six large, modern ammonia-
urea plants planned by GOI since 1979, which were to be constructed in a phased
manner, based on the lean gas portion of these gas resources during the sixth
Five-Year plan, in addition to two other plants, Hazira and Thal, which were
already under construction in 1984.  These six plants were to be constructed
along the planned Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (HBJ) pipeline. Three plants out
of six are already in operation (the project plant in Vijaipur, the IFFCO plant
in Aonla, and the private sector Indo Gulf plant in Jagdishpur), and the
remaining three are under implementation by the private sector (the RCFL plant
in Trombay, the Bindal Agro Chemical plant in Shahjahanpur and the Tata Chemicals
plant in Babrala).  Furthermore, the duplication of the Vijaipur and Aonla plants
are now under consideration.
3.        Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Project Oblectives: The main objective of the project was to expand
domestic nitrogenous fertilizer capacity, in order to lessen India's dependence
on imports, taking advantage of the vast and newly developed Bombay High natural
gas resources as economic feedstock.   The   location of a large nitrogenous
fertilizer plant in the state of Madhya Pradesh (MP), also aimed at stimulating
fertilizer consumption in that state, whose agricultural potential was then
under-utilized, by providing easier access to fertilizer. Finally, the project
aimed at facilitating the rehabilitation of under-utilized plant capacity,
through the preparation of rehabilitation study of two coal-based plants.
3.2       Prolect Description:  The project consisted of:
(a) the construction at Vijaipur of a green-field nitrogen fertilizer complex
including: (i) a single train 1,350 tons per day (tpd) ammonia unit; (ii)
two 1,100 tpd urea units; (iii) integrated power and steam generation
facilities, including a gas turbine generator, exhaust heat recovery unit
and two boilers of 180 tons per hour (tph); (iv) raw water storage and
treatment facilities,  and demineralized water plant and cooling water
systems;  (v) storage for 10,000 tons of refrigerated ammonia and 50,000
tons of bulk urea and facilities for bagging urea;  (vi) other related
offsites, including maintenance workshops, warehousing, administration
building, laboratory, transport facilities and effluent treatment; and
(vii) infrastructure, including a township with 1,015 housing units and
social facilities, road and rail links, and transmission lines for power
supply from the grid; and
(b) a study to rehabilitate two large-coal based ammonia plants at Ramagundam
and Talcher owned by the Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI), a state-
owned company.   These plants,  which were commissioned in 1980,  were
operating at 331 or less of their capacity, mainly due to technical
problems associated with the use of a new and difficult coal gasification



technology for ammonia production and interruptions in power supply. This
study was to prepare an investment phase for which GOI had requested Bank
assistance.
4.        Prolect Desian and Organization
4.1       The project was designed, organized and implemented by the state-owned
National Fertilizer Limited (NFL), with the assistance of: (i) Harold Topsoe, of
Denmark, in association with Projects Development India Limited (PDIL), a state-
owned engineering firm, for the construction of the ammonia plant; (ii) Snam
Progetti, of Italy, in association with PDIL for the construction of the urea
plants;  and  (iii)  PDIL for all the offsites.   The scope of consultants'
assistance included supply of licenses, basic design, detailed engineering,
procurement services, construction supervision, and technical supervision of
commissioning.
4.2        To implement the project efficiently, timely and within the budget
(Para. 6.1), from the start, NFL created project organization arrangements
including: (i) a dedicated high quality project team with autonomy and authority,
in charge of project management, coordination and supervision -- the team
included a planning and monitoring group and a quality control group supported
by a well designed project management system; and (ii) the introduction of a
scheme of financial incentives tied to the achievement of physical progress
targets, timely completion of milestones, actual costs congruent with budgeted
costs, and attendance of employees -- this system contributed to a strong
commitment and determination at all levels of management to implement the project
without delays and cost increases, and to develop the necessary systems and
techniques for project planning, implementation, monitoring and control -- in
1989, NFL was awarded first prize for excellence in project implementation by the
Ministry of Program Implementation.
4.3        Another key factor in the successful implementation of the project
was the timely availability of sufficient funds. Actual project costs were well
below appraisal costs estimates (Para. 6.6 and 6.7) .  Equity funds from GOI
allocations and the company's internal cash generation were abundant and
available on time. In addition to the Bank loan, NFL also obtained financing
from the Overseas Economic Corporation Fund (OECF) of Japan and the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) of Denmark (para. 6.9 and Part III
para. 5D).
5.        Organization and ImDlementation of the Rehabilitation Studv
5.1       The rehabilitation study of the two coal-based ammonia plants was
carried out by Krupp-Koppers, of Germany, at a cost of about US$2.7 million.
While the consultant recommended the implementation of investments proposed and
already well defined in their study, the Bank concluded from its review that
these investments were not economically viable and advised GOI to consider
closing-down these plants, at least until international urea prices improve.
Substantial cost savings could have been achieved by dividing the study into two
phases, each preferably carried out by different consultants in order to avoid
possible conflicts of interest. The first phase could have consisted of a pre-
feasibility study, and the second phase of final design and feasibility study if
justified by the result of the first phase.
6.        Prol-ct Implementation
6.1       Imvlementation Schedule:  Mechanical completion and start-up of the
complex occurred on November 5, 1987, about two months ahead of the Bank's
conservative  estimate.    Production of urea started on December  1,  1987.



Commercial production was formally declared on July 1, 1988, three months behind
the Bank appraisal estimate, however, by that time, the plant was already
operating normally at more than 90% of its capacity and had already produced
about 175,000 tons of urea.   Completion as defined in Loan Agreement  (as
operation for not less than 60 consecutive days, at an average production rate
per day of at least 80% of daily capacity), occurred about one month ahead of
schedule on September 30, 1988. A detailed comparative schedule is presented in
Part III.
6.2       Early in 1988, NFL requested to use part of the project cost savings
to include three additional investments under the project: (i) an additional
5,000 tons ammonia atmospheric double-wall storage, for increased safety and
flexibility; and (ii) a purge gas recovery system which would reduce energy
consumption and increase capacity by 75 tpd of ammonia; and (iii) a 150 tpd
carbon dioxide (CO2) recovery system.  The Bank accepted this request as these
components were within the project scope and objectives and could reduce the
environmental impact of the project while improving its efficiency. However,
their implementation suffered substantial delays and caused the closing date to
be postponed three times from June 30, 1989 to June 30, 1992. These delays are
due to the late final GOI approvals of these investments. The ammonia storage
became operational in November 1991, and the Purge gas recovery unit was being
commissioned in December 1992.   The CO2 recovery system is scheduled to be
ordered by the end of FY1992/93, and therefore has been excluded from Loan
financing.
6.3       The rehabilitation study for the two coal-based plants was contracted
to Krupp-Koppers of Germany, on July 11, 1985 and was completed in March 1986.
6.4       Main Problems Resolved Durina Immlementation:  Several problems were
encountered during implementation. All were detected on time and efficiently
resolved by NFL's project team without significant impact on the overall project
schedule and within the budget. These included:
(a) delays in the supply of gas for power and steam generation-- gas was due
to be delivered by the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL) before March 1987
for power and steam generation (October 1, 1986 according to the Loan
Agreement) and June 1987 for feedstock, however, gas supply only started
on August 19, 1987. To avoid delay in pre-commissioning, the project team
quickly decided to adapt the power and steam generation plant to use light
distillates and to install the necessary facilities. The steam and power
plants were commissioned, respectively, in March and May 1987, allowing
pre-commissioning to proceed on time and avoiding about four months delay -
- they were switched over to gas when it became available;
(b) Delays in the supply of water from the Ruthiai Dam-- the project team
assessed early that important delays of about two years would occur in the
completion of the dam and immediately implemented a contingent water supply
system from the Parvati river;
(c) unexpected rocky subsoil on site-- this required conceptual changes in the
design of levelling and grading works for the plants and the water
reservoir;
(d) error in the detailed engineering drawing for the concrete base of the
synthesis gas compressor, detected after its construction-- an innovative
solution was found which avoided considerable delays, it consisted in the
drilling of 30 millimeters diameter holes and epoxy grouting of the
reinforcement bars, while the proposed initial solution involved the
excavation of eight holes of one square meter through the two meter thick
concrete base; and



(e)  inadequate road infrastructure for transport from the Kandla port to site
(1,265 kms) of the 410 tons ammonia converter-- the project team planned
this transport efficiently (which lasted about 5 months), carrying out the
necessary modifications to roads and bridges.
6.5        Procurement:   Very early, NFL prepared model bidding documents for
Bank review and subsequently strictly adhered to Bank procedures. NFL's project
management claims that adoption of International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures resulted in time and cost savings.  In fact, NFL used equivalent
procedures for local procurement. Procurement was carried out efficiently and
without delays. This success was due to: (i) extensive reliance on consultants;
(ii) the formation of a procurement task force including personnel from NFL,
PDIL, and Topsoe, in charge of monitoring of inspections and expediting
consultants' reporting; and (iii) the formation of a special committee of NFL
Directors, which met frequently to expedite clearance of procurement
recommendations.
6.6        Proiect Costs:  Actual financing requirements amounted to Rs. 5,370
million versus Rs. 6,304 million at appraisal, equivalent to US$397.5 million
against US$618.0 million (excluding Rs. 210 million, equivalent to US$20.6
million, considered at appraisal as short term debt financing to cover about 65%
of working capital requirements). The main deviations from original estimates
are summarized in table 1 below.
Table I
Appraisal
Estimates       Actual Costs     % Variation
US$     Rs       US$      Rs
Million    Million   Million    Million    US$  Rs
Original NFL Project:
-  Total Installed Cost excluding Taxes    460.8  4,700  336.2   4,546    -27  -3
and Duties
-  Taxes and Duties             82.9   846       11.7    158    -86      -81
-  Working Capital              11.1   113       10.2    138      -8     22
-  Interest During Construction and  60.2   614  15.4    206    -74      -66
Front-end fee
Total Financing       615.0  6,273     373.5   5,048    -39     -20
New Components                     -      -        21.3    288      -        -
FCI Rehabilitation Study          3.0    31        2.7      34    -10      10
Tota Financina Required          618.0  6,304     397.5   5,370    -36     -15
6.7        Actual total financing requirements are substantially below appraisal
estimates, about 15% in local currency and 36% in US Dollars.   The differences
in cost underrun between local currency and US Dollars are due to the devaluation
of the rupee which took place over the period.  In Rupees, the actual total
installed cost of the   project net of taxes and duties and excluding  the
additional components, is in fact only 3% below appraisal estimates. However,
significant savings occurred in: (a) taxes and duties-- the project was exempted
from custom duties on direct imports and excise taxes on indirect imports; and
(b) interest during construction -- due to lower and later loan financing of the
project (paras. 6.8 and 6.13); they permitted an important reduction in total
financing requirements.



6.8       Financing:  Total funds relent by GOI to NFL from the Bank loan and
other cofinancing sources were substantially below appraisal estimates.
Furthermore, a large portion of the loan proceeds, though disbursed for project
purposes, was not relent to NFL, and may thus be considered as having been used
to finance GOI's equity contribution to the project (which was transferred to NFL
in the originally planned amounts). In strict legal terms, this would appear to
be inconsistent with Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement which required the
Borrower to relend the loan proceeds to NFL, rather than to pass them on in the
form of equity, as seems to have been the case for some part of the loan
proceeds. However this in no way jeopardized the successful implementation of
the project, and would seem to have been a reasonable response to the substantial
savings in project costs (para. 6.7) which occurred, enabling NFL and the
Government to seize the opportunity to strengthen the company's balance sheet.
The Bank has requested a clarification from GOI to set the record straight, and
will take appropriate action once this is received including, if necessary,
appropriate revision of the above provision of the Loan Agreement.
6.9       In addition to the Bank loan, GOI also received the following other
cofinancing funds for the project: (i) 7.6 million Yen from OECF (Japan); and
(ii) DKR 167 million from DANIDA (Denmark). These funds also were not relent to
NFL.
6.10      Allocation of Bank Funds:  In mid 1987, while construction was over
90% completed, GOI submitted a request to the Bank to reallocate the undisbursed
balance of the loan, evaluated at more than US$70 million, to finance civil works
as well as equipment already procured under LCB but financed by the company.
Extensive discussions took place with respect to: (i) the form -- equity or debt-
in which the surplus funds -- which could be substituting for GOI contribution
to the project equity -- would be passed on from GOI to NFL; and (ii) the
possible financing of equipment for which reserved procurement may have been
used. The Bank initially refused (September 1987) to make an exception to its
policy of canceling savings accruing as a result of lower than projected project
costs. However, at the insistence of GOI, and in recognition of the inordinate
delays in responding to this request, the Bank reconsidered its decision and
agreed to finance civil works and erection contracts, but not equipment procured
under LCB. Accordingly, the Loan and Project Agreements were amended on May 13,
1988, to permit the financing of civil works and erection contracts procured
under LCB of less than US$10 million each and up to an aggregate amount of US$50
million.   In fact, contracts totalling US$34.81 million qualified and were
approved.
6.11      Disbursement Schedule:  Due to the large reduction in project total
financing requirements, a total of US$36.5 million was canceled, reducing the
Bank loan to US$167.1 million.  As of December 31, 1992, a total of US$166.2
million had been disbursed and the loan had an undisbursed balance of US$0.9
million. However, US$0.5 million out of special account has to be refunded to
the Bank, which would reduce total disbursed amount to US$165.7 million and
increase cancellation to US$37.9 million.
6.12      The project closing date of June 30, 1989 was extended three times to
June 30, 1992 to allow the financing of civil works and of additional components
(para. 6.2) .  However, by the original closing date, disbursements already
amounted to US$158.3 million, or 95% of the loan amount (net of cancellation),
and the project was already in commercial operation.   During the three-year
extension, additional disbursements totalled less than US$8 million.   These
extensions permitted the implementation of new components within the project
scope and objectives and resulting in increased safety, flexibility and capacity,
and in substantial energy savings. Furthermore, they provided the Bank with an
opportunity: (a) to accompany the first years of operation of a project
efficiently implemented by a public sector company; and (b) to continue to follow
developments in the fertilizer sector, at a time when policy dialogue on
sectorial issues between the Bank and the Government had stopped (this project
was among the last two Bank fertilizer projects in India).



- 7 -
6.13       Compared to appraisal estimates,  substantial disbursement delays
occurred at the beginning of the project.  Appraisal estimates may have been
over-optimistic because foreign consultants contracts had not yet been signed by
negotiations -- this can explain delays in equipment procurement, which had to
await completion of basic engineering. However, this did not have a significant
impact on overall implementation of the project (para. 6.1). The pace of actual
disbursements remained lower than appraisal estimates, but above the Bank
profile. It was also slower than that of total project expenditures (para. 3 of
Part III) -- this was normal however, given the differences in types of
expenditures financed from the Bank loan and other resources.
6.14      Market Development and Seedina Proaram:  It was essential for NFL to
develop higher fertilizer demand in the new target market areas (Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh) where consumption was low before the plant came on-
stream. As expected at appraisal, the company developed a fertilizer seeding
program aimed at gradually increasing fertilizer sales in these states and
building-up NFL's marketing organization and dealer network. To implement this
program, NFL was awarded about Rs. 3.7 million from the EEC as part of the INDO-
EEC Fertilizer Education Project. Phase 1 of this project was executed by NFL
in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh between 1985 and
1988.  Phase 2 of this project has been under execution in ten districts of
Madhya Pradesh since October 1988, and will be completed in March 1993.  The
objectives of this education project are to increase consumption of fertilizers,
efficiency of fertilizer use, and develop an integrated input supply system.
It is especially aimed at small and marginal farmers.
6.15      Operation Preparation:  A separate team headed by a general manager
was formed early-on to implement the project, organize future operations ahead
of time, and assume the responsibility for plant operation at a later stage.
This project team was strengthened as needed during project implementation, from
83 members in july 1984 to about 800 in 1988, wheft the plant started commercial
operations.    Operation  preparation  activities  took  place  during  project
implementation and, inter-alia, included human resources training, preparation
of management information systems, and of safety, environmental and operation
norms.
7.        Prolect Results
7.1       Prolect Oblectives and Physical Results:   Overall,  the project
objectives were more than fully met. The Vijaipur plant production levels and
rates of capacity utilization since start-up are presented in Part III, para. 6A.
The rate of capacity utilization during the first year of operation 1988/89 was
over 94% and increased steadily to 118% and 123% for the ammonia and urea plants
respectively in 1991/92. During 1992/93, plant operations stopped three weeks
for programmed maintenance, however it is expected that capacity utilization of
both plants will be maintained at 100% of their nominal capacity. These high
rates of capacity utilization partly reflect: (a) GOI's decision to select Harold
Topsoe, as process licensor, who designed the ammonia plant less conservatively
than usual in the industry; and (ii) the use of high calorific value natural gas
since start-up. It is estimated that the plants are capable during their entire
economic life of maintaining a sustained 110 capacity utilization, which is
substantially higher than the 95% maximum capacity utilization assumed at
appraisal to be achieved in the third year of operation. This is equivalent to
798,000 tpy of urea and about 27,000 tpy of excess ammonia (from a total ammonia
production of about 491,000 tpy).



- 8 -
7.2      MXrket: In 1991/92, actual demand for nitrogenous fertilizer in India
was in line with appraisal estimates, increasing from 4.2 million tons of
nutrients per year in 1982/83 to about 8 million tons in 1991/92 (Annex 1-1).
Supply increased even more than the most optimistic appraisal projection, from
3.4 million tons of nitrogen in 1982/83 to 7.3 million ton in 1991/92, despite
the fact that only three new ammonia plants based on Bombay-High gas started
operations in addition to this project, instead of the five originally expected.
Higher supply is mainly due to a larger than expected average capacity
utilization of nitrogen plants in India, which reached 89% in 1991/92.    In
1991/92, the 118% capacity utilization achieved by the project was higher than
the average capacity utilization of nitrogen plants in both public sector (69%),
and private sector plants (97%), and was about in line with capacity utilization
of cooperative sector plants (113%).
7.3       In spite of lower sales during project implementation compared to
appraisal estimates, and some inventory build-up during the first two years of
operations, NFL developed its market much better than expected -- in the targeted
market areas of Madhya Pradesh, Rajashtan and Uttar Pradesh states, NFL built-up
its sales continuously from 65,400 tpy of nitrogen in 1984/85 to 360,000 tpy in
1990/91 and 408,000 tpy in 1991/92, compared with 315,000 tpy estimated at
appraisal.   Although,  sales during the project implementation period were
significantly lower than estimated at appraisal, they increased rapidly when the
Vijaipur plant started. As a result of the seeding and education programs, sales
from the Vijaipur plant started at a level of 197,000 tpy of nitrogen in 1988/89
and increased to 367,800 tpy in 1991/92.  NFL's total marketing program and
market share in the Vijaipur project market are presented in Annex 1-2. NFL's
total country-wide sales of about 1.08 million tons of nitrogen in 1990/91 were
also higher than appraisal estimates of 0.88 million tons at the same date.
7.4       Due to faster than envigased increase in production and higher
capacity utilization of the Vijaipur plant, some inventory build-up occurred
during the first two years of operation, until the time that market fully
developed. In order to reduce these inventories, in 1990/91 and 1991/92, NFL
respectively delivered about 30* and 22% of total sales from vijaipur out of the
originally targeted area. The average transport distance for sales from vijaipur
was about 790 km in 1991/1992 compared to about 600 km estimated at appraisal.
It is expected, however, that this average will rapidly decrease as accumulated
inventories decrease to acceptable levels.
7.5       In the State of Madhya Pradesh, the seeding and education program had
a major impact as the consumption of nitrogenous fertilizer reached 477,000 tons
of nutrients in 1990/91 versus 279,000 tons estimated at appraisal. Increase in
consumption since 1987/88 in Madhya Pradesh corresponds to NFL's sales in this
state from Vijaipur (184,000 tons of nitrogen in 1990/91).  In the states of
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, NFL sales were developed as planned at appraisal.
7.6       Economic rates of return:   The project economic rate of return (ERR)
is now estimated at 31% and is substantially higher than the base case rate of
18.6% estimated at appraisal. The difference is primary due to the substantially
higher economic value of natural gas assumed at appraisal. The assumptions used
in estimating the revised ERR are summarized in para. 6B-2 of Part III. Para.6B
of Part III also gives a comparison of appraisal and actual projections of the
economic and financial value of gas. At the projected economic values used at
appraisal for natural gas (1984 constant US$152 for 1990/91, US$204 for 1995/96
and US$237 for 1999/00), the project's ERR would be highly negative, despite the
high plant capacity utilization achieved (in the appraisal estimates, the high
value of natural gas was compensated for by substantially high projected economic
prices of urea).  However, the  ERR remains at an acceptable 17% even if the
economic value of natural gas were to double. The project remains economically
viable under any reasonable scenario and is mainly sensitive to the gas price.
The ERRs and the sensitivity analyses are presented in para. 6B-1 of Part III.
Calculations for import parity of urea price and projected economic value of gas



- 9 -
are also presented in Annex 2-1. Also, economic cost and benefit streams for the
base case, which were calculated using prices in 1991/92 constant Rupees, are
presented in Annex 2-2.
7.7       Financial Rate of R-turn:  The project financial rate of return (FRR)
is estimated at 15.6% slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 16.6%.
Although, urea retention prices are much lower than those projected at appraisal,
their impact is compensated by: (i) the higher achieved rate of capacity
utilization -- more than 110% compared with 95% estimated at appraisal; and (ii)
the lower capital costs of the project. The assumptions used for estimating the
FRR and the results of actual sensitivity analysis and those of appraisal
estimates are presented in para. 6C of Part III. The financial cost and benefit
streams for the base case, which were calculated using prices in 1991/92 constant
Rupees, are presented in Annex 2-3.
7.8       Revenues are based on projected retention vrices. These were estimated
on the basis of actual retention prices for FY1992/93; actual project operating
costs (FY1990/91 and 1991/92); and the present retention price formula (Part III,
para. 6C-2).   Since April 1988, the retention price formula assumes a capacity
utilization for natural gas based plants of 80% the first year of operation, 90%
from the 2nd to the 10th year (85% for fuel oil-based plants) and 85* from the
11th year onwards (80% for fuel oil-based plants).  Appraisal estimates were
based on a plant capacity utilization of 80%, which was the norm then. Retention
price calculations and projections,  compared with appraisal estimates,  are
presented in Annex 2-4.
7.9       Since January 1992, prices paid for gas, Rs. 2,739 per thousand Ncm
(Rs. 2,597 in 1991/92 terms) was significantly above its economic value of
Rs. 2,014.   It was conservatively assumed that gas prices would remain in
constant terms at its 1992 level.  Also, urea retention prices (Rs. 3,733 per ton
over the three years pricing period 1990-93, projected Rs. 4,052 per ton for the
three years pricing period 1993-96,) are much lower than their international
import parity (Rs. 5,727 in 1991/92, Rs. 4,841 in 1992/93, projected at Rs. 5,023
in 1993/94).   The Vijaipur urea plant then, is taxed by the retention price
scheme and the gas pricing system.
7.10      The project is financially sensitive to both gas and urea prices.  The
FRR would increase to more than 21% if the fertilizer sector was deregulated,
i.e. staring in 1993/94, NFL could buy natural gas at its fuel oil equivalent
value and sell urea at its import parity. Urea retention prices and natural gas
prices are compared with their respective economic value in Annex 2-1.
7.11      Financial Performanc-:  Selected financial data and performance ratios
are presented in Annex 3.  Since Loan Approval in May 1984, NFL has been in
compliance with Bank financial covenants.   However, the company's return on
equity (not subject to a covenant) decreased from 11.1% in FY 1987/88 to 1.3% in
FY 1988/89, due to an important reduction in retention prices of all NFL's plants
in April 1988, when they were revised for the 5th pricing period-- in its effort
to reduce the burden of fertilizer subsidies, GOI revised downward the norms for
depreciation (the depreciation period increased from 15 to 20 years) and capacity
utilization (para 7.8), applicable to the retention price formula.  In addition,
retention prices of NFL's existing plants of Nangal, Bhatinda and Panipat were
decreased, due to the full depreciation of these plants assets.  Nevetheless,
NFL's return on equity increased again to 6.1% in FY1990/91 and is expected to
improve substantially after 1991/92 -- in 1989, GOI decided to reverse its 1988
decision regarding the depreciation norm, and this resulted in some increase in
the retention price for Vijaipur. In addition, some improvement in retention
prices was also obtained in 1991 for Bhatinda and Panipat on account of the
installation of captive power plants.



- 10 -
7.12      Environmental Impact:  The project is located in a generally barren
and scarcely populated area. Nevertheless, adequate pollution control measures
have been adopted: adequate effluent treatment and discharge facilities were
constrncted in accordance with Indian environmental standards, which are
comparable to standards applied for such installations in industrialized
countries and/or other environmental standards acceptable to the Bank. Major
effluents from the plant include: (i) liquid effluents from the ammonia and urea
plants and from the water treatment plant; (ii) dust emissions from the urea
plant prilling tower; and (iii) sludge from the water treatment plant. In
Vijaipur, NFL confronted a situation of limited water availability with risks of
water shortage, and a serious problem of liquid effluent disposal during the dry
season, when the Chopin and Parbati rivers are without flow. To overcome these
risks, the plants were designed for complete recovery and reuse of process and
steam condensates, maximum reuse of treated liquid effluent and recycle of
ammonia (Annex 4-para. 5).
7.13      In addition to the compulsory initial environment assessment on the
basis of which the project was designed, a comprehensive environment impact
assessment (EIA) of the plant, sponsored by the Environmental Planning and
Coordination Organization of Bhopal (Madhya Padesh), was prepared in 1987/88 by
the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). The study was
prepared on the basis of data collected before and after commissioning of the
plant. NFL implemented most of the recommendations of the NEERI's EIA, including
the plantation of a green belt of about 100,000 trees which has been developed
using treated liquid effluent. Furthermore, in order to avoid any water pollution
by chromium, NFL decided in July 1991 to stop using chromate inhibitor for the
treatment of cooling water and started using a more expensive phosphate-based
inhibitor. Finally, NFL implemented additional investments: Ci) an additional
5,000 tons double wall ammonia storage for increased safety; (ii) a purge gas
system to reduce energy consumption and emission of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the
atmosphere; and (iii) a reverse osmosis plant for the treatment of cooling water
blowdown.
7.14      During 1992, after more than four year of operation of the Vijaipur
plant, NEERI carried out a new EIA to assess the actual impact of the project and
estimate the potential environmental impact of the plant expansion project. A
draft report has already been submitted to NFL. Its overall conclusion is that
the Vijaipur's pollution control measures and systems are effective and all
effluents are within limits specified by MINAS-- its main conclusions are: (i)
overall air quality within and around the fertilizer complex is well within the
limits specified by MINAS; (ii) the quality of treated effluent is well within
the limit of MINAS, and all effluents are used for irrigation of green belt and
in-plant horticulture; and (iii) the noise level is well below the limit of
MINAS. The Vijaipur environmental control facilities; the environmental impact
assessment carried out at the time of commissioning; and of the recent assessment
carried out after four years of operation are summarized in Annex 4.
7.15      Disaster Manaaement: NFL has developed and implemented a detailed
disaster plan in Vijaipur, which includes: (i) an inventory of potential
disasters and precautions to be taken; (ii) an emergency plan; (iii) an
evacuation plan; (iv) emergency pollution control in the event of disaster; and
(v) a disaster plan control chart. Finally, NFL as part of the 1992's EIA study
has undertaken a risk assessment study leading to the review of the current
disaster management plan, and a draft report is expected from NERRI in early
1993.
7.16      Prolect Impact:  In addition to the expected impacts of such a large
project in a remote agricultural area (direct and indirect employment, increased
trade, company town, educational, medical and sanitary facilities, and
infrastructure etc...), the project had a significant impact in: (i) contributing
to expand the domestic fertilizer supply at economically sustainable level; (ii)
expanding fertilizer use in the state of Madhya Pradesh-- fertilizer consumption



- 11 -
in the state increased much more than expected owing to fertilizer availability
from shorter distances and to the seeding and education program (para. 7.5);
(iii) facilitating transfer of technology to indian firms--  the project was
implemented with a major involvement of indian firms, which, by working in
association with international process licensors, could gain valuable know-how
and experience and further improve their capabilities in carrying out similar
projects; and (iv) development of human resources through training inside and
outside the institution;
8.        Prolect Sustainability
8.1       It is estimated that, during its economic life,  the plant is capable
of maintaining a sustained 110 plant capacity utilization. If, in line with the
present trend for economic policy reform, GOI decides to deregulate the
fertilizer sector, at projected import parity prices the NFL's Vijaipur plant
would be able to withstand competition from imports, even in the absence of
protective tariffs, while paying natural gas at its fuel oil equivalent value.
In fact, such decision would improve the project's FRR from the actual estimated
15.6% to 21% (para. 7.10). In addition, if NFL implements its investment program
for CO2 recovery and energy conservation, the project sustainability will become
even greater. The major risk, still faced by the project is that in order to
reduce the financial burden of the fertilizer subsidy, GOI may decide to revise
the urea retention price norms further downwards -- if the retention price of
urea for Vijaipur decrease by 20% below its present level (Rs. 3,733 in 1992/93),
the project would become less attractive, and its FRR would decrease to about 6%.
Finally, GOI and NFL are currently considering the production capacity
duplication of the Vijaipur plant.  If, as NFL's recent market study states,
enough product can be sold at viable distances, the doubling of capacity would
further improve the project's sustainability by reducing fixed cost per ton of
urea provided adequate gas supply would be made available for the expansion by
GAIL.
8.2       In the long term,  sustainable operation of the plant is also a
function of adequate supplies of natural gas feedstock and efficient operation
of the HBJ pipeline. The project utilizes a maximum of 1.72 million cubic meters
per day (MMCMD) of natural gas (1.38 MMCMD if gas for steam and power generation
is excluded) out of 18 MMCMD of gas currently transported by the HBJ pipeline,
the capacity of which can be further increased to 33 MMCMD.   In 1990, the
Department of Petroleum and Natural Gas estimated the natural gas potential
supply from the western region's fields and potential demand of gas from these
fields as follows in MMCMD:
Supply:                        75.0 3
Demand:
- Fertilizer                28.0
- Power                     40.0
- LPG and Petrochemicals    7.0
- Sponge Iron                6.0
- Other                     10.0
Total Demand           91.0
Therefore, in the western region, there is an excess demand of natural gas,
the bulk of which is used by the fertilizer and the power sectors, where demand
3    The Staff Appraisal Report of the Gas Flaring Project (Loan 3364-IN)
indicates a total supply of 61 MMCMD of natural gas for the Country's western
region.



- 12 -
is mainly generated by investment decisions taken by the Government. In fact,
a long term supply contract was signed between NFL and GAIL on October 9, 1991
(Part III - para. 8).  However, in accordance with this contract, GAIL has
already notified NFL that, starting April 1, 1993 it will supply gas to NFL's
Vijaipur plant only as feedstock, but not for power and steam generation. This
shift is not expected to have an impact on the project viability and furthermore
the Vijaipur's steam and power generation plant is already equipped with the
necessary facilities to operate with light distillates (para. 6.4).
8.3       The project has been implemented and is operated in an environmentally
sound manner. The company is aware of the risks of the plants and has adopted
the necessary safety measures.   Therefore, the risks of problems with local
communities are small.
9.        Bank Performance
9.1       Bank performance during project identification,  preparation,  and
appraisal was satisfactory and procurement supervision was good. As, the project
was problem-free, the supervision missions averaged one mission per year and
except for two missions, they consisted of one person during the implementation
phase (Part III - para. 7B). However, more frequent and comprehensive missions
could have been helpful in maintaining sectoral dialogue with the Borrower.
9.2       The Bank's major objective in this as well as prior projects in the
sector was to support GOI's strategy for increasing domestic production of
fertilizer.   The main emphasis was on improving project implementation and
efficiency; on a rational selection of projects; and on expanding production
facilities and improving capacity utilization rates.  The important sectoral
issues were not addressed in this project, except for obtaining a commitment from
GOI during the project preparation stages, to reduce total fertilizer subsidies
by improving operation and management of existing public sector plants. Although
the project was very successful in meeting its objectives, the Bank could have
adopted a broader sectoral approach at the early stages of project appraisal.
However, this project was one of the last two Bank operations in the sector,
together with the Cooperative Fertilizer Sector Project (Loan 2729/2730),
approved in June 1986. The reform measures proposed by the Bank being considered
too radical by GOI, and the policy dialogue in the fertilizer sector between GOI
and the Bank ceased around 1987.
10.       Borrower and NFL (the Beneficiary) Performance
10.1      Except for implementation of the additional investments, the project
was professionally designed, organized and implemented. The plant was completed
on schedule and within cost, and is being operated efficiently at more than 110%
of its nominal production capacity.  NFL was also able to prepare commercial
operations in a timely manner and develop adequate markets.  NFL has been in
compliance with Bank financial covenants since loan approval3.   As already
indicated, the Vijaipur project was so efficiently implemented that it was
awarded first prize for excellence in project implementation, by the Ministry of
Program Implementation in 1989 (para. 4.2).
10.2      This success can be attributed to several strengths of NFL, which may
constitute useful lessons for the implementation of any large public or private
sector project:
3    Although GOI provided sufficient funds to NFL to facilitate successful
and timely project implementation, it appears that GOI appears to have passed on
funds to NFL as equity rather than as a loan as required under onlending
agreements reached between the Bank and GOI (para 6.8).



- 13 -
(i)    from the start, NFL provided the project with a dedicated high
quality project team, headed by a general manager, with autonomy and
authority,   in  charge  of  project  preparation,   management,
coordination and supervision. Furthermore, the same team organized
and took the responsibility for plant operations at a later stage.
This project team included a professionally competent planning and
monitoring group and a quality control group, supported by a well
designed project management system based on a detailed project
execution plan;
(ii)    NFL established an effective financial incentive scheme for project
execution, which contributed to commitment to the project at all
levels of management;
(iii)    the project was provided with sufficient and timely funds;
(iv)    through  extensive  reliance  on  consultants  and  on  competitive
bidding, and a strong procurement management system, NFL could carry
out international and domestic procurement efficiently and without
delays; and
(vi)    NFL  timely  provided  on-site  housing  facilities  and  services
essential for efficient implementation in such a remote area.
11.       Prolect Relationship
11.1      The success of the Vijaipur project is in part a result of the high
level of professionalism of all parties involved and their good relationship; the
Borrower reliance on, and constructive relationship with, the Consultants; and
the amiable working relationships between the Bank and the Borrower.
12.       Consulting Services
12.1      The  project  obtained  process  technologies,   and  procurement,
engineering and construction management services from well known international
firms, in association with a state owned engineering firm (para. 4.1).  All
consultants performed well and they provided valuable assistance to NFL for the
successful  implementation of the project.   NFL also benefitted  from the
experience acquired by the consultants during the earlier construction of the
Thal plant, which included two identical ammonia units.
13.       Prolect Documentation and Data
13.1      The legal documents of the project were adequate for achieving the
project objectives.  The Staff Appraisal Report and the documentation in the
Project File provided adequate background for the review of project
implementation. A few weeks ahead of the Bank completion mission in November
1992, the Bank requested NFL to prepare the project-related information and data
needed for the preparation of the PCR.   All the requested information, was
provided and discussed during the mission.
13.2      The preparation of statistical data needed for Part III of the PCR is
time-consuming. An effort should be made by the supervision missions to obtain
this information in the form requested in the PCR guidelines, early from the
start of project implementation, and maintain it up-to-date.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVZ
Following are the verbatim comments of NFL, responding on the
Borrower's behalf:
Confirmation of Information
The factual information furnished in Part I-III of the PCR, is found
to be substantially adequate. The statistical information, financial analysis
and presentation of the various aspects covered in the Report are found to be
precise and accurate.
Review of the Project from Bank's perspective as contained in Part I
of PCR is found to be quite comprehensive and meaningful.
Bank's Performance
The Project has immensely benefited by the indepth involvement of the
Bank in all stages right from project appraisal through procurement and
contracting, right upto the plant going into commercial production and
subsequently in implementation of additional schemes covered in the Loan.
Adherence to procedures prescribed by the Bank and the periodic follow-up by Bank
officials during various phases helped the project implementation within approved
cost and time schedule.
Borrower's Performance
NFL Project team comprised of officials conversant with the World Bank
procedures from the previous projects. This helped in establishing effective
coordination between project authorities and the Bank.
Lessons learnt during project implementation are:
(i) Adequate attention is needed for timely development of housing,
hygiene and health facilities for the construction workers to avoid
manday loss due to sickness; and
(ii) It is necessary to establish extensive fire fighting facilities and
safety measures for meeting exigencies during construction period.
Prolect Relationship
Right from the inception, cordial and objective relationship developed
between the Project team and the Bank officials. This resulted in considerable
saving in time for obtaining speedy clarifications and approvals from the Bank
required during implementation of the project especially in procurement phase.
Relationship with and Performanc, of Cofinanciers
NFL's relationship with the cofinanciers was cordial and objective.
As such, no difficulty was experienced in obtaining approvals and loan
disbursement.



- 15 -
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Bank GrouD ODerationo in the Fertilizer Sector
Loan/Credit               Proiect Name                  Year of Approval                   Status                    Loan in
Million
USU
Credit 264-IN             Fertilizer Cochin            July 1, 1971         Closed: June 30. 1977                        20.1
Completion: March 12, 1980
Credit 279-IN             Fertilizer Gorakhpur         Dec. 21, 1971        Closed: March 31, 1976                       10.0
Completion: Sep. 9, 1976
Credit 357-IN             Public Sector Fertilizer     Jan. 30, 1973        Closed: March 11, 1977                       58.0
Nangal                                            Completion: August 31, 1979
Credit 520-IN             Fertilizer Sindri            Nov. 26, 1974        Closed: Sep. 30, 1978                        91.0
Completion: Dec. 22, 1981
Credit 481-IN             Fertilizer Trombay           June 18, 1974        Closed: Dec. 12, 1977                        50.0
Credit 598-IN             Fertilizer Industry          Dec. 16, 1975        Closed: Dec. 31, 1982                       105.0
Credit 1125-IN            Hazira Fertilizer            Mar. 31, 1981        Closed: June 30, 1992                       400.0
Loan 1079-IN             IFFCO Fertilizer              Jan. 07, 1975        Closed: Dec. 31, 1980                       109.0
Completed: June 29, 1982
Loan 2415-IN              Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer    May 17, 1984         Closed: June 30, 1992                       203.6
Loan 2729/2730-IN         Cooperative Fertilizer       June 26, 1986        Under implementation, expected to be        302.2
closed in June 30, 1993
EFC                       Indian Explosives Ltd        1967                                               Loan:           8.6
Equity:         2.9
IFC                       Zuary Agro-Chemicals Ltd    1969                                                Loan:          15.1
Equity:         3.8
IFC                       Deepak Ferdlizer and         Nov. 13, 1979                                      Loan:           7.5
Petrochemnical Corporation                                                     Equity:          1.2
IFC                       Coromandel Ferdlizer Ltd     1981                                               Loan:          15.9
Total:      141.9
The Bank Group has been a major partner in India's effort to increase
fertilizer production. Total financial contribution of the Bank Group has
amounted to about US$1.4 billion. However, the Cooperative Fertilizer Loan (Loan
2729/2730), approved in June 1986, was the last operation in the fertilizer
sector -- it was designed to assist GOI in (i) expanding and increasing the
efficiency of fertilizer supply in India; (ii) develop and implement a system to
improve management of public sector companies; and (iii) assist in defining and
implementing a program of policy reform and subsidy reduction.   The reform
measures proposed by the Bank were considered too radical, and the policy
dialogue in the fertilizer sector between GOI and the Bank largely ceased around
1987.



- 16 -
2.    Prolect Timetable
Date           Date              Date
Item                           Planned         Revised          Actual
- Identification Mission                                                 02/1982
- Preparation (i)                                                    11/82-01/83
- Appraisal Mission                        02/83                     02/83-03/83
- Post-appraisal Mission (ii)                                        01/84-02/84
- Loan Negotiations                        10/83                           03/84
- Board Approval                           01/84       05/08/84         05/17/84
- Loan Signature                                                        05/25/84
- Loan Effectiveness                                                    08/24/84
- Loan Closing (iii)                    06/30/89      06/30/90,         06/30/92
06/30/91,
06/30/92
- Loan Completion                       09/30/88                           08/88
Comments:
(i) Following the identification mission, and at the request of GOI, NFL
prepared a feasibility study which was received by the Bank in November 1982.
(ii) The project was initially appraised in March 1983 on the assumption that
M.W. Kellogg had been selected to provide technology and engineering services for
the ammonia plant, as was conveyed by GOI to the Bank.  However, before the
contractual arrangements with Kellog were finalized, GOI revised its earlier
decision and selected Harold Topsoe as the engineering contractor for the ammonia
plant. A post-appraisal mission visited India in January/February 1984 to assess
the impact of the change of technology and engineering arrangements for the
ammonia plant on the project's implementation arrangements, its capital cost
estimate and its viability.
(iii) The project original closing date was extended three times to allow the
financing of civil works and of additional components, which were approved by the
Bank, for recovering purge gases and increasing ammonia storage capacity.



- 17 -
3. 
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
BaLk Fiscal Year                                                                    Total Actual
and Semester           Appraisal       Revined Countr                Actual as '       Prolect
adlua                   BEstimate   Estimate  Profile   Actual Of Estimated   Excenditures
1985    - Dec, 84             9.3          0.5       2.1        0.5             5             12.0
- Jun, 85           21.1          6.9        7.1       6.9            33              35.5
1986    - Dec, 85            48.5         11.6      16.7      11.6             24             64.3
- Jun, 86           89.5         46.2       30.1      46.2            52            153.8
1987    - Dec, 86           123.2         72.2      50.1      72.2             59            232.5
- Jun, 87          152.0        112.9       70.2    112.9             74            275.5
1988    - Dec, 87           176.5        125.9      86.9    126.0              71            313.7
- Jun, 88          191.7        125.9     103.6    126.0              66            361.6
1989    - Dec, 88           199.5        150.0    117.0    150.0               75            364.9
- Jun, 89          203.6        158.3      127.0    158.3             78            368.4
1990    - Dec, 89                        158.3     133.7     158.3             78            372.1
- Jun, 90                       171.6    140.4    159.4               78            375.8
1991    - Dec, 90                        179.6    147.1    163.6               80            377.1
- Jun, 91                       184.6    150.4    164.8               81            378.4
1992    - Dec, 91                                  153.7    166.2              82            379.4
- Jun, 92                                  157.1    166.2             82            380.3
1993    - Dec, 92                                  160.4    166.2              82            381.8
- Jun, 93                                  165.4                                    383.4
1994    - Dec, 93                                  167.1                                     390.6
Loan Disbursements & Proj. Expenditures
Estimated and Actual
450
400 -
350 
300
250
200_        
100
50
0
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Bank FY
O  Appraisal Estimates         DisburtL Profile    A  Actual Disbursement
X  Tot. Project Exp.M



- 18 -
4.    Prolect ImDlem-ntation
ADpriralsal
Indicdor                                          NFL Estimates                Estimates                   Actual
Zero Date                                                  April 1, 1984           April 1, 1984             June 1, 1984
Detailed Engineering Completed                              March 1986               March 1986                May 1986
Procurement of Equipment:
- All Purchase Orders Placed                              March 1985              March 1985              October 1986
- Supply Received                                        October 1986            October 1986                 July 1987
Civil Works Completed                                    December 1986           December 1986                 May 1987
Piping:
- Work Orders Placed                                      March 1985              March 1985               January 1985
- Installation Completed                                   April 1987               April 1987                     NA
Electrical:
- Purchase Orders Placed                                 January 1985            January 1985                April 1985
- Installation Completed                                February 1987           February 1987               March 1987
Instrumentation:
- Supply Received                                      November 1986           November 1986            September 1986
- Installation Completed                                   April 1987               April 1987              March 1987
Insulation & Painting Completed                              April 1987               April 1987                July 1987
Initial Gas Supply                                    November 1, 1986         November 1, 1986           August 19, 1987
Mechanical Completion                                      May 1, 1987           January 1, 1988        November 5, 1987
Commercial Production                                   October 1, 1987            April 1, 1988             July 1, 1988
Project Completion as per Schedule 2 of Loan                                  September 30, 1988            October 1988
Agreement
Additional Components
AAmmonia Storage in Operation                                                                       November 1991
- Commissioning of Purge Gas
Recovery System                                                                                       December 1992
- CO2 Recovery System                                                                                Not yet started\l
Coal-Based Plants Rehabilitation Study                                                                       July 11,1985
- Contracted                                                                                             March 1986
- Completed
\1 C02 recovery system was expected to be ordered by December 1992.



- 19 -
5      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costa
(Rx. Million)
Appraisal Estimates                         Actual Costs
Indirect                                 Indirect
Foreign  Foreign   Local                 Foreign  Foreign   Local
Category                               Exchange Exchange   Costs    Total        Exchange Exchange   Costs    Total
1. Eguipment and Spares:
Ammonia Plant                           688        52       100      840          647        79      152       878
Urea Plant                              233        60       113      406          262        62      116       440
Power & Steam Generat.                  327         3         6      336          320         8       16       344
Power Distribution                       10        26        51       87            9        23       46        78
Other Offaites                           61        92       175      328           69       134      254       457
Spares                                  148        28        52      228          233        25       46       303
Construction Tools                       29        15        31       75           39         2        4        45
Sub-Total                          1496       276      528      2300         1579      332       634      2545
2. Ocean Freight & Insurance                 165        -         -      165              Included in Supplies
3.  Inland Handling                            -        9        90       99            -        11      107       118
4.  Duties & Taxes                             -        -       846      846            -         0      158       158
Delivered Cost of Equipment:           1661       285      1464     3410         1579       343      899      2821
5.  License & Engin. Services               136         -       132      268          227         0      172       399
6.  Project Mngt & Insurance                   6        -       116      122            -         0      214       214
7.  Land & Site Development                    -        -        89       89            -         0      162       162
S.  Civil Works & Buildings                    -       20       337      357            -        28      471       499
9.  Erection                                  78       22       290      390            8        15      199       222
10. Commissioning Charges                     16        -       102      118            -         0       169      169
11. Township                                   -        8       114      122            -        10       148      158
12. Power, Offaites, Cons. Facilities          -        3        34       37            -         5        55       60
Base Cost Estimate (BCH)                 1897       338      2678     4913         1814       401     2489      4704
Physical Contingencies                        95       17       134      246            -         -         -        -
Price Escalation                             120       30       237      387            -         -         -        -
Total Installed Coat                     2112       385      3049     5546         1814       401     2489      4704
Working Capital \1                          10        -       103      113            -         0      138       138
Total Project Cost                       2122       385      3152     5659         1814       401     2627      4842
Interest during Construction                466         -       142      608            -         0      200       200
Front-End Fee                                  6        -         -        6            6         -         -        6
New Components:
- Add. Ammonia Storage                      -        -         -        -            -        24       44        68
- Purge Gas Recovery                        -        -         -        -            -        18       33        50
- C02 Recovery                              -        -         -        -            -        60      111       170
Total NFL Financing Req'd                2594       385      3294     6273         1820       502     3014      6336
FCI Rehabilitation Study                    26        -         5       31           34         -         -       34
,.............................      .    ............... ......   ......... ......   ......... ......   ........ ......   ................................... ...
Tota Financing Required                  2620       385      3299     6304         1854       502     3014      5370
\1 Excluding Rs.210 million (US$20.6 million) estimated at appraisal for short term debt financing to cover
about 65% of working capital requirements.



- 20 -
B. Prolect Costs
(USS. Million)\1
Appraisal Estimates                            Actual Costs
Indirect                                   Indirect
Foreign   Foreign   Local                  Foreign   Foreign   Local
Item                   Exchange Exchange   Costs    Total          Exchange Exchange   Costs    Total    Change
1.  Equipment and Spares;
Ammonia Plant                            67.5        5.1       9.8      82.4         47.9       5S.8     11.2       64.9       -21
Urea Plant                               22.8        5.9      11.1      39.8         19.4       4.6       8.6       32.5       -18
Power & Steam Generat.                   32.1        0.3       0.6      32.9         23.7       0.6       1.2       25.4       -23
Power Distribution                        1.0        2.5       5.0       8.5          0.7       1.7       3.4        5.8       -32
Other Offuites                            6.0        9.0      17.2      32.2          5.1       9.9      18.8       33.8         5
Spares                                   14.5        2.7       5.1      22.4         17.2       1.8       3.4       22.4         0
Construction Tools                        2.8        1.5       3 .0      7.4          2.9       0.1       0.3        3.3       -SS
Sub-Total                           146.7      27.1      51.8    225.5         116.8       24.6      46.9    188.2         -17
2.  Ocean Freight & Insurance                 16.2          -         -     16.2               Included in Supplies
3.  Inland Handling                                      0.9       8.8        9.7          0.0       0. 8      7.9       8.7        -10
4.  Duties & Taxes                               -          -     82.9      82.9           0.0       0.0      11.7      11.7        -86
Delivered Cost of Equipment             162.8      27.9    143.5    334. 3          116.8      25.4      66.5    208.7         -38
5.  License & Engin. Services                 13.3       0.0      12.9      26.3         16.8        0.0      12.7      29.5         12
6.  Project Mngt & Insurance                   0.6       0.0      11.4      12.0           0.0       0.0      15.8      15.8         32
7.  Land & Site Development                    0.0       0.0       8.7       8.7          0.0        0.0      12.0      12.0        37
8.  Civil Works & Buildings                    0.0       2.0      33.0      35.0          0.0        2.1      34.8      36.9          5
9.  Erection                                   7.6       2.2      28.4      38.2          0.6        1.1      14.7      16.4       -57
10  Commissioning Charges                      1.6       0.0      10.0      11.6          0.0        0.0      12.5      12.5          8
11. Township                                   0.0       0.8      11.2      12.0           0.0       0.8      10.9      11.7         -2
12. Power, Offeites, Cons. Facilities          0.0       0.3       3.3       3.6           0.0       0.4       4.1       4.4        22
Bare Cost EetimAte (BCE)                  186.0       33.1    262 5    481.7          134.2      29.7    184.1    347.9          -28
Physical Contingencies                         9.3       1.7      13.1      24.1             -         -         -          -         -
Price Escalation                              11.8       2.9      23.2      37.9             -         -         -          -         -
Total Inotalled Cost                      207.1       37.7    298.9    543.7          134.2      29.7    184.1    347.9          -36
Working Capital                              1.0       0.0      10.1      11.1             -      0.0       10.2      10.2        -8
Total Project Cost                        208.0       37.7    309.0    554.8          134.2      29.7    194.3    358.1          -35
Interest during Construction                  45.7       0.0      13.9      59.6             -       0.0      14.8      14.8       -75
Front End Fee                                  0.6       0.0       0.0       0.6           0.6         -         -       0.6          2
New Conponents
- Add. Ammonia Storage                       -          -         -         -            -       1.8       3.3       5.0          -
- Purge Gas Recovery                          -         -         -         -            -       1.3       2.4       3.7          -
- C02 Recovery                                -         -         -         -            -       4.4       8.2      12.6          -
Total NFL Financing Raq'd                 254.3       37.7    322.9    615.0          134.8      37.1    222.9    394.8          -36
FC1 Rehabilitation Study                    2.5        0.0       0.5       3.0          2.7       0.0       0.0        2.7       -11
..........................               ......   ..   .         ......   ......     ......   ......   ......   ......   ......
Total Financing Required                  256.9       37.7    323.4    618.0          137.5      37.1    222.9    397.5          -36
Re per US$    13.520
Average Exchange Rate for Rehabilitation Study:                    Rs per US$    12.600
Exchange Rate at Appraisal                                         Rs per USS    10.200



- 22. -
C.  Capital Costs - Phasing of Total Expenditure.
Average        Expenditures
Fiscal Year                                            Expenditures   Exchange Rate            USS
-----------                                             (Rs million)      (Rs/USS)           (Million)
1984/85                                                           --      -----------   ------------
* June - Sept 84                     67            11.579              5.8
* Oct - Dec 84                       75            12.158              6.2
* Jan - March 85                    154            12.838            12.0
Sub Total 84-85                     296            12.359            24.0
1985/86
* Apr - June 85                     144            12.498            11.5
* July - Sept 85                    133            12.048            11.0
* Oct - Dec 85                      215            12.091            17.8
* Jan - March 86                    509            12.312            41.3
Sub Total 85-86                    1001            12.254             81.7
1986/87
* Apr - June 86                     603            12.500            48.2
- July - Sept 86                    393            12.592            31.2
* Oct - Dec 86                      620            13.039            47.5
- Jan - March 87                    333            13.015            25.6
Sub Total 86-87                    1949            12.773           152.6
1987/88
* Apr - June 87                     222            12.781            17.4
* July - Sept 87                    365            13.049            28.0
* Oct - Dec 87                      133            13.000            10.2
 Jan - March 88                    507            13.043            38.9
Sub Total 87-88                    1227            12.992            94.4
1988/89                                                          227            14.477            15.7
1989/90                                                          123            16.660              7.4
1990/91                                                           46            17.949              2.6
1991/92                                                           47            24.519              1.9
1992/93 \1 \2                                                     88            28.000              3.1
1993/94 \1                                                       217            30.000              7.2
1994/95 \1                                                       109            30.000              3.6
. ,_ .............................. ....... .............    .......      .     .........      .......
Total NFL Projoct\3                5330            13.520           394.2
\1 In Addition to payments still due at end of December 1992, expected disburament amounts
include RJ. 170 million for the C02 recovery system, to be ordered by December 1992.
\2 includes actual amounts up to September 1992.
\3 does not include the front end fee (US5.6 million) and the rehabilitation
study (US$2.7 million). Total project cost amount to US$397.5 million (Rs 5370 million).



- 22 -
D. Project Financing
Ra. Million                    USS Million
Source                                                                Planned   Actual             Planned   Actual
......y                                                              ................................... ...... .  ........... ...... ....................
Bquity
- GOI (1)                                                           2,115    2,163               207.4    160.0
- Internal NFL Resources                                            1,025    1,292               100.5      95.6
Total Equity                                                   3,140    3,455               307.8       256
Debt
- World Bank                                                        2,040    (2)                 200.0       0.0
- OECF                                                                 643    (2)                 63.0       0.0
- Denmark                                                               92    (2)                   9.0      0.0
- Italy                                                                 41    (2)                   4.0      0.0
- GOI (2)                                                              311    1,775               30.5    131.3
- AGI (Debentures)                                                              100                          7.4
Total Long-term Debt                                           3,127    1,875               306.6    138.7
................ ........................................                                   .      ... ......   ...... . .. ......   ......... ............
Total Financing for NFL                                                 6,267    5,330               614.4    394.2
- Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                             6                  6       0.6      0.6
- FCI Study (Bank financed)                                             31                 34       3.0      2.7
................ ............................................ ......                      ......... ......   ......... ............
Total Financing Required for the Project                                6,304              5,370       618    397.5
(1) GOI provided NFL with the following equity contribution:
Year                 Million Rs.
1985/86                   510
1986/87                 1,000
1987/88                   653
Total                   2,163
(2) G0I received a total of Rs. equivalent 3,496 million from the following foreign currency loans:
Initially           Actually Received by GOI
Contracted       ------------------------------           Relent by GOI
by t0I in         Foreign              Rs.                  to NFL
Foreign Currency      Currency            Equivalent         Rn. Equivalent \a
-  World Bank, in Million US$ Equivalent         203.6                166.2               2,250              n.a
-  OECF, in Billion Yen                           15.0                   7.6                671              n.a
-  Denmark, in Million DKr.                      167.0                167.0                 575              n.a
Total RP.-Equivalent                                   3,496              1,775
\a From this total amount, only RJ. equivalent 1,775 million were relent to NFL. The
allocation of relent amounts by sources is not available.



- 23 -
R. Bank Financina
Amomt  of the Loe  Alocated
(aqprewed In USS rflon Equivalent)
Cdesor-Y                                   SAR                   _       Revb
Eaimtee                                                       AAuI
UD to
05113119U8     OU19/1991       04/16/1192      11119
(1)
(a)    Equiprnent, Materials, and
Spaue Pauts                       169.000        130.600         120.000        117.100          116.480
(b)    Civil Works and Erection
Contracts (ii)                                    50.000          37.150          34.810          34.810
(2) TechnicaliServices to NFL                11.000         16.500         11.700          11.700          11.700
(3) Consultant's Services to FCI             3.000           3.000          2.700           2.700           2.700
(4) Fee                                       .508            .508            .508           .508            .508
(5) Unallocated                             20.0,2          2.992           .542            .282
Sub-Total                         203.600       ,203.600         172.600        167. 100         166.200
Cancelled as of August 16, 1990                                            19.000          19.000
Cancelled as ofJune 7, 1991                                                12.000          12.000
Cancellod as of March 27, 1992                                                              5.500
Orignl Loan Amnouzi                                                   .203.600       203.600
Coin^nta:
(i)           Five reimbursement applications totalling Rs. 46,151,293 were being
reviewed by Bank Legal/Procurement Departments as of December 1992.
(ii)         The Loan and Project agreements were amended on May 13, 1989, to
permit the financing of civil work and erection contracts procured
under LCB (Part 1-Para. 5.10).



- 24 -
6.    Prolect Benefits
A. Direct Benefits
EmF
8          Nl/9        A           90/91        992          22          93/94       94f9Sn
1. Producdom and Cadt U                                                                        ---(Projections)--
* Ammonia Plant
- Production                   57.2      419.4       475.3        493.8        525.8        437.5       486.4         490.9
(thousand tons)
- Capacity  Utilization(%)                  94         107          111          118           98          109          110
- Ammonia Consumption                    418.0       473.7        491.3        518.3        429.5       459.7         464.0
for Urea (thousand tons)
- Ammonia per ton of Urca                0.594       0.581        0.578        0.580        0.581       0.581         0.581
(ton)
- Ammonia for Sale                          1.4         1.6         2.5          7.5          8.0         26.7         26.9
(thousand tons)
* Urea Plant
- Production (thousand         87.5      703.5       815.7        849.8        893.2        739.2       791.3         798.6
tons)
-Capacity Utilization(%)                    97         112          117          123          102         109           110
- Cumulative Production        87.5      791.0    1,606.7       2,456.5      3,349.7      4,088.9      4,880.2      5,678.8
(thousand tons)
2. Saks:
Total Urea Sales from                     478.4       545.4       1087.9       1030.7       946.4        791.3         798.6
Vijaipur (thousand tons)
Cumulative Sales from                     478.4      1023.9       2111.7       3142.5      4088.9       4880.2       5678.8
Vijaipur (thousand tons)
Comments:
(a)   At appraisal, capacity utilization was estimated at 65t in the first year
of operation (1988/89), 80% in the second year (1989/90), and 95%
thereafter.
(b)   Appraisal estimates for, and actual countrywide, nitrogenous fertilizer
supply/demand balances are presented in A                                                   Also,  appraisal
estimates and actual NFL's total nitrogen fertilizer marketing program and
market share in the Vijaipur market area are presented in Annex 1-2.



- 25 -
B. Economic Imact
1.    Economic Rate of return: Based on ERR assumptions presented in (para. 2)
below, cost and benefit streams for calculations of the economic rate of return
are presented in Annex 2-2.  The base-case economic rate of return was re-
estimated at 31%, which is substantially higher than the 18.6% estimated at
appraisal. The results of the sensitivity analyses are summarized below:
ADmraiMMl
Economlic Rate of Return        Current (Nov. 1992)          nti  te
(%)
(%)
Base Case                                   31.2                    18.6
Variable Costs up 10%                       30.0                    16.6
Variable Costs up 100%                      17.0                     -
Production Costs up 10%                     29.8                   16.3
Revenues up 10%                             35.2                   22.3
Revenues up 5%                              33.2                     -
Revenues down 10%                           27.0                   14.1
Capacity Utilization down 10%               28.2                   16.3
Capacity Utilization at 95% of              26.7                   18.6
Nominal Capacity (as estimated
at Appraisal)
Capacity at 95% of Nominal                  19.8                     -
Capacity and Capital Costs up
50%
2.    Assumptionu used in the ERR Analysis
(a)      Capital Cost:  Total actual project financing, as estimated by NFL,
is Rs.5,330 million, excluding interest during construction (Rs. 200 million),
working capital (Rs. 138 million) and the CO2 recovery system which, had not yet
been approved (Rs.170 million). Total installed costs are estimated at Rs. 4,822
million. The economic cost of the project is based on the financial costs after
deducting taxes and duties and adding the cost of building the captive water
reservoir and canal. A standard conversion factor (SCF) OF 0.8 was applied on
the non-tradable items of the cost structure (at appraisal the same SCF was
applied to all local currency components of capital cost-- the application of the
same methodology would reduce the project's economic cost by more than 4%). All
costs were brought to constant FY 1991/92 terms, based on actual inflation rates
(Wholesale Price Index-WPI) and phasing of expenditures.   In FY91/92 prices
terms, total actual economic capital cost of the project is Rs. 6,560 million,
and financial capital cost is Rs. 7,029 million. The plant operating life is
estimated at 12 years.
(b)      Revenues:   Calculations and projections of economic prices of urea
are presented in Annex 2-3 in 1991/92 constant term.  They are based on Bank
projections for international FOB Europe prices of bagged urea, plus ocean
freight (US$45), and handling and port charges (US$8 equivalent per ton), plus
rail freight from port to the project market (Rs. 475 per ton, equivalent to



- 26 -
about US$19), less freight from the Vijaipur plant to the market (Rs. 475 per
ton, equivalent to about US$19).   the economic value of surplus ammonia is
assumed as in the SAR at 90% of the economic value of ammonia.
(c)       ODeratinQ costs:   the economic value of natural gas is assumed to
be equal to its fuel oil equivalent value based on calorific value.   The
international price of fuel oil is expected to move in line with Bank projections
for international crude oil prices. Calculations and projections of the economic
value of gas are presented in Annex 2-3 The economic costs of utilities (such
as power and water), labor and overheads are derived from the financial costs by
deducting taxes and applying a SCF of 0.8.
3.    Coment:   The ERR is now estimated at 31% and is substantially higher
than the base case of 18.6% estimated at appraisal. The difference is mainly due
to a substantially higher economic value for natural gas estimated at appraisal.
Appraisal estimates and current economic and financial projections compare as
follow:
Economic and Financial Price- of Gas
Year          ADDraiual Estimate*      Actual Economic   Actual Financial
Price              Price
(In 1984     (in 91/92     (in 91/92 US$)      (in 91/92 US$)
Us$)          US$)
1990/91         152           228              101                 113
1995/96         204           306               80                 106
1999/00         237           355               85                 106
At values projected at appraisal for natural gas, the project's ERR would
be highly negative, despite the high capacity utilization achieved in the plant.
However, the ERR would still remain at an acceptable 17% if natural gas were to
cost twice the appraisal estimate.



- 2 7-
C. Financial Impact
1.    Financial Rate of Return:  on the basis of the assumptions described in
para. 2 below, the project's financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at
15.6%, slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 16.6%. The difference is
due mainly to lower urea retention prices than projected at appraisal, even
though the impact of the currently projected lower retention prices is
compensated by: (i) the higher rate of capacity utilization achieved -- more than
110% compared with 95% estimated at appraisal --; and (ii) the lower capital
costs of the project. The difference between the projected ERR (31%) and FRR
(15.6%) is due to: (i) projected and actual urea retention prices for 1991/93 are
lower than the international import parity of urea (para. 6.9 of Part I and Annex
2-1); and (ii) actual gas price of Rs. 2,597 per thousand Nmc in 1991/92 terms
(Rs. 2,739 since January 1992) are higher than their equivalent economic value
of Rs. 2,014. It is conservatively estimated that they will remain at this level
in constant terms. The cost and benefit streams for the base case are presented
in Annex 2-3. The results of the sensitivity analysis, compared to appraisal
estimates, are summarized below:
Financial Rate of Return               Current Estimates  ADDraisal Estimates
(%)                  (%)
Base Case                                     15.6                 16.6
Variable Cost up 10%                          13.3                   -
Production Costs up 10%                       13.0                 13.0
Revenues up 10%                               19.9                   -
Revenues Down 10%                             10.8                   -
Capacity Utilization up 5%                    16.7                  18.3
Capacity Utilization down 10%                 13.3                  13.3
2.    Assumtions used in the Financial Rate of Return Analysis
The financial rate of return has been calculated using prices in 1991/92
constant Rupees. Revenues are based on retention prices projected on the basis
Vijaipur's current retention price, actual project operating costs (1990/91 and
1991/92), and the present retention price formula.   The urea retention price is
fixed by the Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee (FICC) for individual
producers on the basis of: (i) 12% post-tax return on share capital and reserves
employed in the production of urea; (ii) plant capacity utilization of 80% the
first year of operation, 90% from the 2nd to the 10th year, and 85% from the 11th
onwards; and (iii) variable and fixed costs based on standard rates. Retention
price calculations and projections compared with appraisal estimates, are
presented in Annex 2-4. Current urea retention price projections for the project
are much lower than appraisal estimates-- appraisal estimates were based on 80%
plant capacity utilization, as it was the norm then.



- 28 -
D. study
Purpose ^8                                aDct of the
Defined at          Status               St
study               Aimraimal
Contracted to       The Bank
Rehabilitation      These plants,        Krupp-Koppers of   concluded from
study of two        which were          Germany on July    its review that
large coal-based   commissioned in    1985 and               the investments
fertilizer plants  1980, were           completed in         recommended by
at Ramagundam and  operating at less  March 1986.            the consultant
Talcher owned by   than 331 of their                         were not
the Fertilizer      capacity, mainly                         economically
Corporation of      due to technical                         viable and
India (FCI).        problems                                 advised the
associated with                         Government to
new and difficult                        consider closing-
coal gasification                       down of these
technology and                          plants, at least
interruptions in                        until
power supply. The                        international
purpose of the                           urea prices
study was to                             improve.
prepare an
investment phase
for which GOI had
requested Bank
assistance.



- 29 -
7.    Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Inuts
San of Project Cc eC _
Until Appraial                                    17.9
Appraial                                          38.7    Includes 12.7 staff-weeks in FY84 for dte post-appraisal mission and
document up-daing (Pant m-pa. 2, comment (ii)).
Apprisal though Board Approval                    43.8
Boad Approval through Effectivene                  -
Supervision                                       83.3    Only about 43% and 62 % of totsl supervision time have been spent
before mecanical completion and project completion respectively as
per Schdle 2 of dte Loan Agreement. Also the preparation of tbis
PCR is not included.
- TOW                                         183.7
Comments;
Although the project required two post-appraisal missions (Part III - para.
2, comment (ii)), actual staff input through Board approval totaled about 100
staff-weeks, very close to the original budget of 95 staff-weeks estimated in
February 1983.



- 30 -
B.    Mission*
S1ffetan        Moatb/Year   Nunber of   Dan           S          ot    Prformance        Tyne of Probems
Proece Cyce                    Peawns      Fildd C/    nikon member    RatiU Statux
a/              bl
Identification     02/82         n.a         n.a            n.a
Appraisal          02/83          4          19           Eco, Bag
First Post-        08/83          1           9             Eco                        Apprtisa follow-up
Appraisal
Second Post-       01/84          4          20         Eco, Eng, FA                   Reappraisal to ssess
Appraisal                                                                              impact of GO1 Decision
to change technology
choice.
Supervision
1              04/85          1          21             Eng               1
2              03/86          1          15             Eng               2        Delays in
implementations of gas
and water supply
systems
3              02/87          1          18             Eng               2
4              10/87          1          17             Eng               I
5              10/88          2          15           Eng, FA             I
6              01/90          1           1             Enag 
7              12/91          2          18           Eng, Eco            I
PCR                11/93          1           6             Eng
com-nt
a/ Key to Specialization:
Eng: Engineer
Eco: Economist
FA : Financial Analyst
b/ Key to Status:
1: Problem-free or Minor Problems
2: Moderate Problems
3: Major Problems
c/ With the exception of mission #6, the numbers of days in field represents the
total duration of each supervision mission. However, two or more projects were
supervised simultaneously during each mission and it is estimated that only about
50% of reported time has been really spent to supervise this project.



8.   Status of Covenants
Covenant                                 Subdoet                       Deadline for Cnlimce -                         tuc
A. Lom Jumm
Section 2.04                      Closing date                                    June 30, 1989              Closed on June 30, 1992
Section 3.01 para. (b)           The Borrozr shall relad the proceeds of                                    A portion of the loan procoeds. though
the Loan to nFL, under a subsidiary loan                                   transferred to the Gover net, was not
agreement,                                                                 relent to NFL (Part II per&. 5.8 and Part
III para. SA).
Section 3.02                     Without limitation or restriction. upon          in anual installments    GOI provided NFL with the following euity
pravisions of section 3.01, the Borrower        according to the           contribution:
specifically undertakes to make available       requiremnts of the                               (Re. Million)
to IFL an equity contribution up to an          Projcet.                      - 1905/86               510
aggregate _ount of rs. 2.115 billion.                                         - 1986f/7             1.000
- 1967/88               653
Total     2.163
Section 3.03                     The Borrower shall: (i) cause  a study to                                   The study was cmpleted in March 1986.
identify the rehabilitaition requiremnts                                                                                      w
of PCIs coal based plants at Rmuand_m
ad Thalcoer to be carried out;  nd (ii)
mke avalable to PCI the proceeds of the
Lamn  Wer catagory 3 (US$3 million) for
the purpose of the study.
Soction 3.04                     Th  Borrower shall caws FCI to employ                                       WS Krupp Kopperm of Germny wer
comaultants In accordance of bank                                          contracted in July, 1985.
sguidelne  for use of consult-nto  to
aSsait mCI In carrying out the
rehabilitation study.
Section 4.02                     00I shall: (i) cause the accounts of FCI                                    A copy of the report nding March 31,
related to the project (study) to be                                       1990. was provided to tho Bank.
audited by independet auditors acceptable
to the Dak; and (ii) cause PCI to furnish
to the Dak such reports.
Section 4.03                     The NOrroer shall enur  adequcate  nd           October 1. 1966             GAIL started gas supply in August 19,
timely supply of gas for the project                                       1967, and since supply has been adquate.
Schedule 2                       Completion date,  defined as operation for    Septeer 30, 1988              It Is estiated that completion occured
not less than 60 comascutive days at an                                    during August 1988
average production rate per day of at least
6ox of daily capacity.



supznt  4bjec"st            -Dedline for Consillnc-                        status
D. prsi&c ki-   &
Section 2.05 (d)                 After completion of tho project. NFL *shll    Not letter than six           NFL providod the information needed for
prepare a report on execution  nd initial       month  after the           the preparation of Parts I and III of this
operation of the project, its costs and         closing date               PCR.  nd  indicated that it will prepare
benefits and tho performance of NFL and the                                Part II.
Bank.
Section 2.08                     ArL shall build and operate the project in                                  The Envirocnsntal Impact Assessment
accordance with ecological and                                             carried out by PERRI in 1992 after four
envirmental standards satisfactory to the                                  years of operation. conluded that the
Bank.                                                                      project's pollution control measures  nd
system are effective nd all effluents
are within limits specified by MIA.
Section 3.04                      NFL shall mko arrangements with                                            Contracts for ass, water nd power
appropriate agencies for the provision of                                  respectively were signed with GAIL. the
adequate and timely supply of gas, water,                                  GovarAeant of Madhya Pradesh, and the
and power for the project.                                                 Madhya Pradesh State electricity Board.
Section 4.02                     1FL shall: (a) have the Vijaipur plant's         Each fiscal year.          Audited annual financial reports were
ccounts and its accounts and financial                                     provided to the Bank up to FY 1990/91.             W
statement for aech fiscal year audited by
independent auditora acceptable to the
Bank; nd (b) furnish to the Bank not
latter tha nino months aftr the end of
*cas such year. certifiad copieo of the
audited reports an well as the auditors
report.
Section 4.03                     NIL shall: (a) at all times follow prudent    At all time                   Since loan approval in Kay 1964, NFL has
financial policies; and shall maintain the                                 bean in compliance with Bank financial
follwing ratios:  i) debt to equity at laas                                covanants (Annex 2).
than 1.5 times, (ii) current ratio of not
lees then 1.2; nd (ii) internal cash
generation to the debt service requirements
for each year of at least 1.3; (b) except
as the Bank shall agree NFL shall not
declare any dividend, nor repay any debt,
it as a result thereof, current ratio were
to fall below 1.4.



-  33  -                                                     Annex   --
India - Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project
(Loan 2415-IN)
India - Projected and Acual Nitrogen Supply/Demand Balance
(in Million tons of Nutrient)
Appraisal Projections                                              Actual
-----Supply -----               -----Shortage-----
Year             Case I   Case II      Demand   Case I       Case II               supply    Demand  Shortage
82/83               3.4        3.4        4.3       0.9          0.9                  3.4        4.2        0.8
83/84               3.5        3.5        4.9       1.4          1.4                  3.5        5.2        1.7
84/85               4.4        4.4        5.3       0.9          0.9                  3.9        5.5        1.6
85/86               5.0        5.0        5.6       0.6          0.6                  4.3        5.7        1.4
86/87               5.3        5.3        6.0       0.7          0.7                  5.4        5.7        0.3
87/88               5.6        5.6        6.4       0.8          0.8                  5.5        5.7        0.2
88/89               5.7        5.7        6.8       1.1          1.1                  6.7        7.2        0.5
89/90               5.8        6.4        7.2       1.4          0.8                  6.7        7.4        0.7
90/91               5.8        6.6        7.6       1.8          1.0                  7.0        8.0        1.0
91/92               5.9        6.9        7.9       2.0          1.0                  7.3        8.1        0.8
94/95               6.1        7.5        9.2       3.1          1.7
Case I: Included output from all plants in operation and under implementation as of early 1984, plus M.P.
Project. It assumed that capacity utilization of then existing plants would increase to 75% by 1989/90
and 80% by 1994/95 and thereafter; and that capacity utilization of the new Hazira, Thal and Madhya
Pradesh urea plants would reach 90% by their third year of operation.
Case II: In addition to output under Case I, supply projections include five additional ammonia plants,
based on Bombay High gas, to be constructed under GOI program.
Comment:
SAR estimates for total demand of nitrogen fertilizer was accurate. However, actual 1991/92 supply
reached levels projected in case II for 1993/94, while only three new ammonia projects (Trombay, Aonla,
and Jagdishpur) based on Bombay High gas were then in operation in addition to M.P. This higher than
projected supply is mainly attributed to a higher capacity utilization than expected -- average capacity
utilization reached 89% in 1991/92 versus about 75% under case I of the appraisal estimates.



NFL. Total Marketing Program and Market Share for Nitrogen Fertilizer in Vilaipur's Plant Market Are
(thousand tons of Nutrient)
__ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __   ct al _ __ __ _ __ __ _ ___Actual_ __ __ _ __ __ _ _Su__ __ _Estimatese      _ __ __ _ __ __ _
64/85    85/86    86/87    A7/88    Ba/ag    89/9O    90/91    91/92    84/85    85/86    86/87   87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91
Madhya Pradesb
- Total State Consumption              223.6    255.9    289.4    293.2    386.7    372.6    477.6    461.2    182.6    200.0    214.8   231.3    248.6    262.5    279.1
- total NFL Sale. in the State           2.3       2.3      1.6       3.0     75.3    126.4    184.6    197.0      42.0      54.0     58.0    74.0      92.0    105.0    120.0
- Sales from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -     74.4    121.2    184.0    197.0          -        -         -       -     92.0    105.0    120.0
- NFL' Market Share                      1.0       0.9      0.6       1.0     19.5     33.9      38.6     42.7     23.0      27.0     27.0    32.0      37.0     40.0      43.0
Rajasthan
- Total State Con u ption              150.4    160.8    178.4    149.6    211.9    194.4    242.7    291.9    158.8    172.2    184.2   200.0    210.5    235.3    235.3
- total NFL Sales in the State          14.2      15.2     19.7      17.5     46.3     31.0      31.9     49.9     27.0      31.0     35.0    40.0      40.0      40.0     40.0
- Sales from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -     14.2     20.7      23.6     19.2         -        -         -       -     23.0      22.0     40.0
- NFL. Market Share                      9.4       9.4     11.0      11.7     21.8     16.0      13.1     17.1      17.0     18.0     19.0    20.0      19.0      17.0     17.0
Uttar Pradeh
- Total State Consumption            1,240.0  1,328.0  1,273.2  1,186.5  1,600.5  1,547.7  1,690.7  1,697.0  1,350.0  1,462.5  1,575.0 1,687.5  1,750.0  1,875.0  1,937.5
- total NFL Sales in the State          48.9      95.1     84.5    5S.7    119.0       89.7    143.0    161.1    108.0    117.0    126.0   135.0    140.0    150.0    155.0
- Sales from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -    208.4     80.3    135.5    151.7          -        -         -       -    105.0    143.0    155.0
- NFL's Market Share                     3.9       7.2      6.6       4.9      7.4      5.8       8.5      9.5       8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0
Sub-Total VijaiPUr   Original Target
Market Area
- Total Target Area Cnmsuwption      1,614.0  1,744.7  1,741.1  1,629.3  2,199.1  2,114.6  2,410.9  2,450.1  1,691.4  1,834.7  1,974.0 2,118.8  2,209.2  2,372.8  2,451.9
- total NFL Sales in the Area           65.4    112.5    105.8       79.2    240.6    247.2    359.5    408.0    177.0    202.0    219.0   249.0    272.0    295.0    315.0
- Sales from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -    197.1    222.2    343.1    367.8          -        -         -       -    220.0    270.0    315.0
- NFL'a Market Share in the Area         4.0       6.4      6.1       4.9     10.9      11.7     14.9     16.7      10.5     11.0      11.1    11.8     12.3      12.4     12.8  XS
Punjab                                                                                                                                                                               I
- Total State Consumption              758.7    787.2    802.9    791.1    795.5    817.6    855.4    913.2    769.2    833.3    909.1   984.8  1,046.9  1,133.3  1,200.0
- total NFL Sales in the State         255.4    277.9    250.8    203.5    393.7    278.0    378.0    383.2    300.0    300.0    300.0   325.0    335.0    340.0    360.0
- Sale. from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -     11.5      0.0      36.9      9.2         -        -         -       -        -         -        -
- NFL'a Market Share                    33.7      35.3     31.2      25.7     49.5     34.0      44.2     42.0      39.0     36.0      33.0    33.0     32.0      30.0     30.0
Herya
- Total State Consumption              272.7    296.4    327.0    300.7    383.6    402.6    443.2    470.5    287.5    319.4    348.5   371.4    402.8    434.2    447.4
- total NFL Sales in the State         115.6    117.7    114.8    116.2    223.6    161.2    207.3    221.4    115.0    115.0    115.0   130.0    145.0    165.0    170.0
- Sales from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -     11.5                        29.9         -        -         -       -         -        -      2.0
- NFL's Market Share                    42.4      39.7     35.1      38.7     58.3     40.1      46.8     47.1      40.0     36.0      33.0    35.0     36.0      38.0     38.0
Other States \1
- Total States Consumption           1,601.9  1,674.3  1,728.0  1,866.4  2,373.1  2,626.2  2,796.2  2,663.6
- total NFL Sales in theme State.        8.4       5.7      4.8       6.4      9.4      76.9    132.3     73.4      38.0     29.0      29.0    29.0     30.0      32.0     34.0
- Sale. from Vijaipur Plant                 -        -        -         -        -      67.8    120.4     67.2         -        -         -       -         -        -        -
- NFL' Market Share                      0.5       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.4       2.9      4.7       2.8        -        -         -       -         -        -        -
Total NFL'. Marketing Program
- Total Consumption in NFL's Market 4,247.3  4,502.6  4,599.0  4,587.5  5,751.3  5,961.0  6,505.6  6,497.4             -        -         -       -         -        -        -
- total NFL Sales                      444.7    513.9    476.2    405.4    867.3    763.3  1,077.0  1,085.9    630.0    646.0    663.0   733.0    782.0    832.0    879.0
- NFLF   Sales from Vijaipur Plant          -        -        -         -    220.1    290.0    500.4    474.1          -        -         -       -    220.0    270.0    317.0
\1 Bihar, Andra Pradesh, Meot Bengal, Maharashtra and Orissa, where NFL started fertilizer distribution recently.



Import Parity of Urea
Fiscal Year                              84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88    88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/9S   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00
Urea-FOB Burope, Bagged
- In 1990 Constant US5                                             170      163      140      157     168      134     141      148     153      157      160     163      166
- In PY 91/92 constant US$                                         174      166      143      160     172      137     144      151     156      160      163     166      170
Ocean Freight to Bombay                                               45        45      45       45       45      45       45      45       45       45      45       45      45
Handling, Port Charges, Storage and Losses                             8         8       8        8        8       8        a       8        a       8        a        8       8
Urea ex-port in 91/92 Us5                                            226       219     196      213     224      190      197     204      209     213      216     219      222
Urea ex-port in 91/92 Rs.                                          5,552    5,377   4,801   5,227   5,502   4,651   4,826   5,002   5,127   5,227   5,302   5,377   5,452
Rail Transport from Port to Market (Rs./ton)                         475       475     47s      475     475      475      475     475      475     475      475     475      475
Less Rail Transport from Plant to Market (Rs./ton)                   475       475     475      475     475      475      475     475      475     475      475     475      475
Rconomic Price at Pactory Gate in 91/92 Rs./ton                     5779      5596    4997    5440    5727    4841    5023    5206    5336    5440    5518    5596    5675
Retention Prices in 91/92 Rs./ton                                      -    5,203   4,925   4,117   3,733   3,489   4,052   4,052   4,052   3,843   3,843   3,843   3,730
Economic Value of Natural Gas
Fiscal Year                              84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88    88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- -                       - - -   - - -    - - --_-   - - -   -- -    - - -   - - -    - - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - --   - - - -   - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - - -
Crude oil (1990 Constant US0$/BL)                                             14.3    17.2    21.2    17.0    16.5    15.7    15.5    15.6    16.0    16.4    16.8    17.3
Fuel Oil (1991/92 constant US5/ton)                                           66.5    79.9    98.5    79.0    76.7    73.0    72.0    72.5    74.4    76.2    78.1    80.4
Ocean feight to Bombay                                                         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Fuel Oil CIF Bombay (1991/92 US$)                                               69      83      102       82      80       76      75       75      77       79      81       83
Transport to Site                                                               15      15       15       15      15       15      15       15      15       15      15       15
Economic Price of Fuel Oil (in 1991/92 US$/ton)                                 84      98      117       97      95       91      90       90      92       94      96       98
Economic Price of Fuel Oil (in 1991/92 R2./ton)                              2,071   2,401   2,857   2,378   2,321   2,230   2,208   2,219   2,265   2,310   2,356   2,413
Economic Price of Gas (in 1991/92 Rs./1000cm)                     1,520    1,796   2,083   2,478   2,063   2,014   1.934   1,915   1,925   1,964   2.004   2,043   2,093
Gas Price in Current Rs./1000Ncm                                   2,563    2,566   2,566   2,563   2,563   2,739
Financial Price of GeJ (in 1991/92 Rm./1000Ncm)                        -    3,263   3,037   2,787   2,562   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   i,597



Economic Rate of Return
(Constant 1991/92 Rs. Killion)
Fiscal Year                               64/85   85/86   86/87   87/88    08/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00
__-- -  -                                -- -    --  -    - - -    ----     --  - _-_ __ - _-_ --_- --   -     -- -    ----     ----     -----   -- -     -- -    --  -    -----
Reveu
Quantity:
- urea (thousand tons)                                           87.5    703.5   815.7   849.8   893.2   739.2   791.3   798.6   798.6   798.6   798.6   796.6   798.6
- Ammonia (thousand tona)                                                   1.4      1.6     2.5      7.5      8.0    26.7    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9
Prie-s:
- Urea (Rs./ton)                                                5,779    5,596   4,997   5,440   5,727   4,841   5,023   5,206   5,336   5,440   5,518   5,596   5,675
- Aaonia (Rs./ton) \1                                                     5,037   4,497   4,896   5,154   4,357   4,521   4,685   4,802   4,896   4,966   5,037   5,107
Total Revenues                                                        506    3,944   4,083   4,635   5,154   3,613   4,095   4,283   4,390   4,476   4,540   4,605   4,669
Costs
Capital Investments \2                      458   1.456   2,670   1,571        269      136                                                                                  (656)
Working Capital \3                                                             176                                                                                           (176)
Variable Costs
-Ga,
. Quantity (million mm.)                                         58.6    472.9   548.3   572.1   606.7   504.1   559.5   564.7   564.7   564.7   564.7   564.7   564.7
P Frice (Rs./thousand gmc)                                      1,520    1,796   2,083   2,478   2,063   2,014   1,934   1,915   1.925   1,964   2,004   2,043   2,093
* Cost of Gas (million Rs.)                                        89       849   1,142   1,418   1,252   1,015   1,082   1,081   1,087   1,109   1,131   1,154   1,182
- Water (million Rs.)                                               0.4       2.7      3.0     2.8      6.1      5.0     5.4      5.4      5.4     5.4      5.4     5.4      5.4
- Taxes on Electricity (million Rn.)                                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
- Bagging (million Rn.)                                            18.4    147.7   171.3   178.5   187.6   155.2   166.2   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7
Sub-total Variable Costs                                    108    1,000   1,316   1,599   1,445   1,175   1,254   1,254   1,260   1,282   1,305   1,327   1,355
Fixed Costs (RS. million)
- Cheicals                                                                   28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
- Stores and Parts                                                           64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0
- Labor                                                                      57.9    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3    46.3
- Fixed Charges on Electricity                                               16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
- Overheads                                                                  45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6    45.6
Sub-total Fixed Costs                                               211.5   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9   199.9
Total Costs                                 458   1,456   2,670   1,679    1,656   1,652   1,799   1,645   1,375   1,454   1,454   1,460   1,482   1,504   1,527              723
Met Cash Flow                              (458) (1,456) (2,670) (1,173)   2,288   2,431   2,836   3.509   2.238   2,642   2,829   2,931   2.994   3,036   3.078   3.946
................................................ ...................................................................................................___.____.......... ___............................._
Sensitivity Analysis                      ERR(%)
Economic Rate of Return (8) -   31.2                                                                          --------------------                       ------
---------------------------                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual  SAR  Batimates
................. ................ _ - ...................................................                  ---Base Case                                    31.2    18.6
\1 the economic value of surplus amo nia is estimated at 90% of the economic value of urea.                           Variable Costs Up 10%                 30.0    16.6
\2 residual value at the end of project life - estimated at 10% of assets value                                       Production Costs up 10%               29.8    16.3
\3 recovery of working capital at the end of project life                                                             Revenues up 10%                       35.2    22.3
Revenues up 5%                       33.2        -
Revenues down 10%                    27.0    14.1
Capacity utilization down 10%        26.2    16.3
At 95% of Nomial Capacity            26.7    18.6



Financial Rate of Return
(Constant 1991/92 Rs. Million)
Fiscal Year                              84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88    88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/9S   98/99   99/00
Revenues
Quatity:
- Urea (thousand tons)                                          87.5    703.5   815.7   849.8   893.2   739.2   791.3   796.6   798.6   798.6   798.6   798.6   798.6
- Ammnia (thousand tona)                                                   1.4     1.6     2.5      7.5      6.0    26.7    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9
Prices:
- Urea (Rs./ton)                                               5,203    5,203   4,925   4,117   3,733   3.489   4,052   4,052   4,052   3,843   3,843   3,843   3,730
- Ammnia (Ra./ton) \1                                                   5,585   5,286   4,419   4,007   3,745   4,349   4,349   4,349   4,125   4,125   4,125   4,004
Total Revenues                                                      455    3,668   4,026   3,510   3,364   2,609   3,322   3,353   3,353   3,180   3,180   3,180   3.086
Costs
Capital Investmets \2                      491   1,560   2,861   1,683        289     146                                                                               (1.201)
Working Capital \3                                                          175.5                                                                                       (175.5)
Variable Costs
- Gas
Quantity (ail*ion Nc.)                                          59       473     548      572     607      504     560      565     565      565     565     565      565
Price (Rs./tbouaand NcR)                                     3,515    3,263   3,037   2,787   2,562   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597   2,597
Coat of Gas (million Rs.)                                      206    1,543   1,665   1,594   1,555   1,309   1,453   1,466   1,466   1,466   1,466   1,466   1,466
- Water (million Rs.)                                              0.5       3.8     4.1      3.9     8.4      7.0     7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5
- Taxes on Blectricity (million Re.)                               1.2       9.8    11.4    11.9    12.5    10.3    11.1    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
- Sagging (million Rs.)                                           18.4    147.7   171.3   178.5   187.6   155.2   166.2   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7   167.7
Sub-total Variable Costs                                   226    1,705   1,852   1,789   1,763   1,481   1,638   1,653   1,653   1,653   1,653   1,653   1,653
Fixed Costa (Rs. million)
- Chdmicals                                                                 28.0    28.0    26.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
- Stores and Parts                                                          64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0    64.0
- Labor                                                                     58.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    S8.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    58.0
- Charges on Blectricity                                                    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
- Overhead                                                                  57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0
Sub-total Fixed Costs                                             227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0   227.0
Total Costs                                491   1,560   2,861   1,909    2,396   2,225   2,016   1,990   1,708   1,865   1,880   1,880   1,880   1,880   1,880            503
Met Cash Flow                             (491) (1.560) (2,861) (1,454)   1,272   1,801   1,494   1,374         901   1,458   1,473   1,473   1,300   1,300   1,300   2,584
Financial Rate of Return (1) -   15.60                                                                                Sensitivity Analysis              FRR (8)
-----------------------   Actual SAR Estimates
Base Case                   15.6    16.6
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............,_..----VariableCoatsUplO...................................................Variable Costs Up 10%                            13.3        -
\1 for amnonia retention prices, it hae  been assumed that they will move in line with projected urea retention prices.Production Costs up 10%    13.0    13.0
\2 as estimated at appraisal, recovery of residual value at the end of project life was estimated to include the            Revenues up 10%              19.9        -
value of nondepreciable assets ( land, site development, township and infrastructure) and 10% of depreciable assets.  Revenues up 5                     17.8        -
\3 recovery of working capital at the end of project life                                                                   Revenues down 10%            10.8        -
Capacity Util. up 5%        16.7    18.3
I



Retention Price Calculation
(Re. per Ton)
Fiecal Year                                 88/89   *9/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/ol   01/02   02/03
_ - - - - -                                 - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -   - - -    - - -_-     -     - -     -  -
Pricing Period                             88/89   89/90   90-93                     93-96                     96-99                    99-03                    03-06
Rate of Capacity Utilization (8)                        80      90       90      90       90      90       90      90      90       90      85       85      85       85
Production (thousand tpy)                            580.8   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   653.4   617.1   617.1   617.1   617.1
Net Fixed Annets (Ra.aillion)               4,003   3,750   3,496   3,483   3,332   3,056   2.780   2,504   2,228   1,952   1,676   1,400   1,124           648      572
Normative Working Capital (Rs.million)        552      552     607                       668                      735                      808                       889
Total Capital Eployed (Rs. million)         4,555   4,302   4,103                      3,724                    2,963                    2,208                     1,461
Depreciation (Ra.million)                     253      253     253      269     276      276     276      276     276     276      276     276      276     276      276
Outstanding Lo4na (Rs. million)             1,775   1,739   1,597   1,420   1,242   1,065        887      710     532      355     177      36       36                -
Net Worth (Rs. million)                     2,780   2,563   2,506                     2,660                     2,431                    2,172                     1,461
Return on net Wort!h (Rs. million)            690      636     602                       660                      603                      539                       363
Interest on Loans (Rs. million)               266      261     240                       160                       80                        s                         0
Sub-total Return & Interaet (Ra.million)    956        697     841                       620                      683                      545                       363
Sub-total Return & Interest                                                                                                                                                         OO
par ton of Urea (Rm./ton)                            1,545   1,287                     1,255                    1,046                      883                       588
Variable Coat  & RFagging (R../ton)                          1,758                     1,945                    1,945                    1,945                     1,945
Fixed Costs (Rs./ton)                                          300                      429                       429                      455                       455
Depreciation (Rs./ton)                                         388                       422                      422                      447                       447
Total Production Coats (Rs./ton)                             2,446                     2,797                    2,797                    2,847                     2,847
..........,,.................,_............. ....... ............  .......  .        .........                .......         ..........                         .......
Calculated Retention Price Rm./ton                           3,733                    4,052                     3,843                    3,730                     3,435
Actual Retention Price (Rs./ton)            4,086   3,867   3,733   3,733   3,733
Retention Price in FY
1991/92 Constant Rupees (Rs./ton)           5,203   4,925   4,117   3,733   3,489   4,052   4,052   4,052   3,843   3,843   3,843   3,730   3,730   3,730   3,435
Retention Price. as Entimated at
Appraisal (Rs./ton)                         5,345   5,486   S.639   5,704   5,877   6,057   6,161   6,371   6,589   6,639   6,891   7,153
Economic Price. in 1991/92 term.
Plant Gate (Rs./ton)                        5,596   4,997   5,440   5,727   4,841   5,023   5,206   5,336   5,440   5,518   5,596   5,675
Farmgate Price (Rs./ton before Bales
tax) \I                                     2,350   2,350   2,350   3,060   2,760
\1 faragate prices were fixed at: (i) Rn.2,350 from October 31, 1986 to July 24, 1991; (ii) RJ.3,360 from July 25,1991
to Augugt 13, 1991; (iii) Rn. 3060 from August 14, 1991 to July 24,1992; and (iv) Rn. 2,760 since July 25, 1992.



- 39 -
Financial Performance of NFL
82/83    63/84    84/85    S5/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91
Total Equity                               3129      3364     3808      4650      5783      6777     6777      6795      7092
- Capital                                2743     2743      2743      3251     4256      4906      4906      4906      4906
- Reserves & Surplus                      386       622     1065      1398      1527     1871      1871      1889      2186
Long Term Debt                             1949       958       833      765       989      1993      2827     2890      2312
^ Secured Loans
- Debentures                                   -             -         -         -      100       100       100       100
- Gov. of Punjab                          -         -        -         -         -        1         1         1         1
- Uhit Trust of India                     -         -        -         -         -        -       500       S00       469
* Unsecured Loans
- Gov. of India                        1949      958       833       695      989      1892      2026      1889      1712
- Gov. Companies                          -         -        -        70         -        -       200       400        30
Current Liabilities (i)                     855       707       670     1444      1645      3848     4204      4222      3461
* Current Liabilities & Provisions        592       554      606      1083      1176     2355      2013      2338      1657
* Secured Cash Credit                     263       153       64       361       469     1492      2191      1884      1804
Current Assets                             2187      1770     2269      2944      3162      5565     6700      7256      6811
Internal Cash Generation:                  1106       951     1052       959       777      1068     11S0      1289      1452
* Net Profit after Tax                    346       253      418       337       163      442        49       115       297
D Depreciation                            530       538      543       547       546      547       731       641       711
 Interest on Long Term Debt              231       159       90        76        68        79      371       532       444
Debt Sevice Requirement                     885      1072       215      144       104       115       407       569      627
 Amortization of Long Term Debt          654       913      125        68        37        37       37        37       183
* Interest on Long Debt Term Debt         231       1S9       90        76        68        79      371       532       444
Ratios
Debt Equity Ratio                          0.62      0.28     0.22      0.16      0.17      0.29     0.42      0.43      0.33
Current Ratio                               2.6       2.S       3.4      2.0       1.9       1.4       1.6       1.7      2.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                 1.3       0.9      4.9       6.7       7.4       9.3       2.8       2.3      2.3
Return on Equity                           12.S       8.6      18.1     11.4       5.7      11.1       1.3      2.9       6.1
(i) includes secured cash credit from consortium of bankers, which has been assumed to be a short term liability
(ii) Financial Covenants:
- Debt Equity Ratio:               lse  than 1.5
- Current Ratio:                    not lees than 1.2
- Debt Service Coverage Ratio:    at least 1.3  -
Source: NFL's Annual Reports



- 40 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
PROJBCT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADHIA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Loan 2415-IN)
ENVIRONDUNTAL ASPZCTS
1.   The project is located in a generally barren and scarcely populated area.
Nevertheless, adequate pollution control measures have been adopted: adequate
effluent treatment and discharge facilities were constructed in accordance with
environmental Indian standards, which are comparable to standards applied for
such installations in industrialized countries and/or other environmental
standards acceptable to the Bank. Major effluents from such plant include: (i)
liquid effluents from the ammonia and urea plants and from the water treatment
plant; (ii) dust emissions from the urea plant prilling tower; and (iii) sludge
from the water treatment plant.
A.   1987/88 Environment Imact Asme ents of the Viliour Plant
2.   In addition to the compulsory initial environmental assessment on the basis
of which the project was designed, a comprehensive Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of the Vijiapur fertilizer plant, sponsored by the Environmental
Planning and Coordination Organization of Bhopal (Madhya Padesh), was prepared
in 1987/88 by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI).
The study was prepared on the basis of data collected for air, water, noise,
biological, land and socio-economic impacts in the project area of influence
before and after commissioning of the plant. The EIA analyzed the air, water and
biological, noise, land, and socio-economic environments,   and included the
identification, projection and evaluation of the project's environmental impacts;
proposed a detailed environmental management plan, mitigating measures and a
detailed monitoring plan; and recommended an approach to disaster management.
3.   The main conclusions of this EIA can be summarized as follows:
(a) the general topography of the area will not change significantly as
a result of the project, furthermore, the green belt, in and around the plant
will improve appearance;
(b) the project has a positive impact on the human environment, due to
increased employment opportunities and better medical, housing, sanitary and
drinking water facilities;
(c) the net impact of gas effluent emissions from the project will be
marginal and too insignificant to cause any adverse impact on human health and
vegetation in and around the plant;
(d) there is no significant direct and indirect impact from noise produced
in the plant beyond one kilometer from it and there is no sensitive areas around
it which would be adversely affected;



- 41 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
(e)   surface water quality will get only marginally affected due to the
low concentration of major pollutants present in the effluents. Surface water
bodies are able to purify themselves within a downstream travel distance of less
than 1.5 kilometer.
(f)   the impact on ground water resources in and around the plant is
small, but could later increase due to percolation through the natural drain
which was used at that time to transport liquid effluent.
4.   The main recommendations of the proposed environmental manaQement
plan were:
(a) scrubbing of ammonia bleed-off gases or leakages to recover ammonia;
(b) use of low sulfur high stock fuel (LSHS) to keep S02 levels low,
whenever use of additional fuel is required in replacement for natural
gas;
(c) insulation of compressor control rooms and provision of personnel with
noise reduction equipment, and plantation of a green  belt around
plant buildings and residential area;
(d) checking of the impermeability of effluent ponds and sludge pit;
(e) construction of a reverse osmosis plant;
(f) use of adequately treated effluent for the development of the green
belt;
(g) collection of storm water and use for irrigation after adequate
treatment if necessary;
(h) use of a non-chromate inhibitor for cooling water treatment;
(i) optimization of effluent recycle and minimization of waste water
discharge by using the effluent ponds extensively;
(j) construction of a closed pipe for the possible discharge into the
Parvathi river of adequately treated effluents;
(k) prohibition of use of the Chopan river water beyond the discharge
point for domestic use by farmers;
(1) safe deposit of spent catalyst in closed containers;
(m) transformation of domestic solid waste into compost;
(n) implementation of a detailed monitoring plan;
(o) need for environmental education; and
(p)  the  carrying out  of   a risk  assessment  study  leading  to the
formulation of a disaster management plan.
D.   3xiotina Environmental Control in the Viiaipur Plant
5.   In addition of the installing the pollution control facilities included in
the initial design of the project, NFL implemented the large majority of the
above recommendations made by NEERI. The environmental control facilities of
Vijaipur, which according to NFL have required an investment of Rs. 180 million,
are summarized below:



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
(a)   licuid effluent treatment:  In Vijiapur, NFL confronted a situation
of limited water availability with risks of water shortage, and a serious problem
of liquid effluent disposal during the dry season, when the Chopan and Parvathi
rivers are dried out. To overcome these risks, the plants were designed for the
complete recovery and reuse of process and steam condensates, and recycle of
ammonia.  The plant liquid effluent treatment facilities include:  (i) a deep
hydrolysis section in the urea plant to treat process condensates, before they
are recycled as cooling water make-up; (ii) a stripping treatment of process
condensates in the ammonia plant to recover ammonia recycle after polishing the
condensates as boiler feed water; (iii) disk oil separators for the treatment of
oily waste water from compressors; (iv) collection and use for irrigation of
storm water, after treatment if necessary, depending on its quality; (v)
sophisticated and efficient effluent treatment of the cooling water blow-down;
(vi) sewage treatment; (vii) two separate corrosion-resistant lined ponds for the
storage of contaminated effluent, before treatment and reuse (110,000 m3) and,
for the treated effluent (220,000 i3), before its use for irrigation of the plant
green belt and horticulture on site; and (viii) the recent addition of a reverse
osmosis  plant.    Also,  in  addition  to  monitoring  plants  effluents,  NFL
continuously monitors groundwater 2.5 km around the plant.
(b) Air Pollution Control: the urea prilling tower is 96 meter high and
its exhaust contains less than 40 mg of dust per Ncm, well within the limit
stipulated in IS 2490 and MINAS. Also, the use of natural gas as fuel allows a
sulfur dioxide content lower than 2 ppm and a negligible dust content in all
stacks, which are all higher than 30 meters. Finally, all pressure vents, safety
vents and valves are discharged at 96 meters. When light distillates will be
used instead of gas (Part I - para 8.2), S02emissions will marginally increase,
but are estimated to be kept within standards (para. 4 (b)).
(c) Noise Control and Land Bnvironment: to improve the ecological balance
of the surroundings area and reduce noise and dust transmission a green belt of
100,000 trees have been planted, in and around the plant, on a total of 95
hectares. The project area was initially deforested, however, the large scale
tree plantation program carried out by NFL is improving the micro climatic
conditions and the aesthetics of the area by improving the soil, reducing soil
erosion and helping in the restauration of the displaced fauna.
(d) Bnviroanment Monitorina: adequate pollution monitoring stations and a
detailed monitoring plan have been established. Also, a fully dedicated team of
engineers, constituting the core of the environmental monitoring group,
coordinates all the activities related to environmental protection, including
training and seminars. Finally, an emergency system is in place (para. 8).
C.   Environment Impact Assessment of 1992
6.   During 1992, after more than four years of operation, NEERI has undertaken
a new EIA to assess the actual impact of the project and estimate the potential
environmental impact of the expansion project. A draft report has been submitted
to NFL.  This new study covers the same areas as the 1988/89 study.  Its overall
conclusion is that the Vijiapur's pollution control is effective and all
effluents are within limits specified by MINAS. Its main conclusions on the
present situation can be summarized as follows:
(a) the liquid effluent treatment plant is efficient, the quality of the
treated effluents conforms to MINAS standards;
(b) cooling tower blowdown effluents are treated in the reverse osmosis
plant and the treated effluents are of high quality and recycled;
(c) the treated effluent pond can store treated effluent, to be used for
irrigation, for about 23-25 days. Considering evaporation losses, the
treated effluent can be held for about 60-70 days;



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
(d) the efficiency of the sewage plant is satisfactory;
(e) no treated effluent is discharged from the plant to the river, but it
is estimated that about 100m3/h of water seeps into the river from all
sources (irrigation of green belt and horticulture, storm water,
townsite etc...).   this combined stream does not show any high
concentration of pollutants and satisfies MINAS and IS 2490-1982
standards-- however, the Parvathi river was found to be polluted
downstream with colliforms and requires conventional treatment before
its use as drinking water.
(f) flue gas from the power and steam generation plant contains about 2
ppm sulfur dioxide and negligible suspended particulate, which are
vented through 30 meter-high stacks. Waste process gases containing
carbon monoxide, hydrogen and methane are vented through a 90 meter-
high stack after complete burning;
(g) exhaust air from the urea prilling tower contains less than 40 mg per
Nm3 of dust, all other gaseous streams from the urea plant are scrubbed
and are practically free from ammonia;
(h) air within and around the fertilizer complex is almost free from toxic
pollutants--   S02 concentration is lower than 26 micro-gram/mi3 much
lower  than  the  MINAS  limit  of  120  micro-gram;    the  maximum
concentrations of NO2 is lower than 23 micro-gram/mr3; and suspended
particulate in the plant area are within limit; and
(i) the noise level is well within the established by MINAS.
7.    Finally, in order to avoid any water pollution by chromium, NFL has decided
in July 1991 to stop using chromate inhibitor for the treatment of cooling water
and started using a more expensive phosphate based inhibitor as it was
recommended by NERRI.
D.   Disaster Management and Risk Assessment Stu
8.   NFL has developed and implemented in Vijiapur a detailed disaster plan,
which includes: (i) an inventory of potential disasters and precautions to be
taken; (ii) an emergency plan; (iii) an evacuation plan; (iv) an emergency
pollution control in the event of disaster; and (v) a disaster plan control
chart. However, as recommended by NERRI in the 1987/88 EIA study, it is very
important that NFL undertakes a risk assessment study leading to the review of
the current disaster management plan.  NFL had indicated that this study is
presently carried out by NERRI as part of the 1992 EIA and that the draft report
is expected at the beginning of 1993.



- 44 -
Annex 5
PCR'. Fil-
1.    Information prepared by NFL for the PCR.
2.    The Fertilizer Association of India - Fertilizer Statistics 1990/91.
3.    NFL - Vijaipur Unit Profile.
4.    NFL - Vijaipur Project, Completion Report.
5.    NFL - Vijaipur Unit, Salient Features.
6.    Note on the Final Cost Estimates of Gas Based Fertilizer Plant at
Vijaipur.
7.    NFL - Annual Reports for 1982/83, 1984/85, 1986/87, 1987/88,  1988/89,
1989/90, and 1990/91.
8.    Planning Commission of India - A Case Study in Project Implementation,
Vijaipur Fertilizer Project - December 1989.
9.    Administrative Staff College of India - Triumph in Project Management.
10.   Report of the High Powered Committee on Fertilizer Consumer Prices.
11.   Department of Petroleum and Natural Gas - Report of the Committee on
Pricing of Natural Gas, May 1990.
12.   Ministry of Program Implementation - Award for Excellence in Project
Implementation, 1987/88.
13.   Annual Fertilizer Production and Consumption, 1990/91.
14.   GOI, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Fertilizers - Annual Report,
1989/90.
15.   Bank's Statistics and Records on the project.
16.   P.P. Chandna - Procurement for a Project - Magnitude Organization and Role
of Consultants.
17.   NERRI - Environment Impact Assessment of Vijaipur Project, April 1989,
(selected Chapters).
18.   NERRI - Rapid Environment Impact Assessment of Vijaipur Project, May 1992,
(selected Chapters).
19.   Environment Control at NFL Vijaipur.
20.   Environment Monitoring at NFL Vijaipur.
21.   NFL - Schemes for Energy Improvement.
22.   Audited accounts of Vijaipur Plant, 1989/90.
23.   FCI - Annual Report, 1989/90.
24.   FCI - Proposal for Rehabilitation Phase 1 of Ramagundam.
25.   FCI - Proposal for Rehabilitation Phase 1 of Talcher.



