Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4657-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
April 18, 1984
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Rupees (Rs)  1.0   =   US$0.098        1 Metric ton (t)    = 1,000 Kilograms (kg)
Rs 10.20            =   USl.O          1 Metric ton (t)    = 2,204.6 Pounds (lb)
Rs 1,000,000        =   US$98,039      1 Kilometer (km)    = 0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)       = 2.47 Acres
1 Cubic meter (Ncm) = 35.32 Cubic feet (cf)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BTU                    British Thermal UTnit
CIF                    Cost, Insurance and Freight
CMO                    Central Marketing Office
Cusecs                 Cubic feet per second
CWC                    Central Warehousing Corporation
EIL                    Engineers India Ilmited
FACT                   Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore, Ltd.
FAI                    Fertilizer Association of India
FCI                    Fertilizer Corporation of India
FOB                    Free on Board
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GOI, Government        Central Government of India
HFC                    Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation
HYVs                   High Yielding Varieties
KV                     Kilovolts
KW, MW, MWH            Kilowatt, Megawatt, Megawatt-hour
K20 (Potash)           Potassium Oxide Content in Fertilizers
MFL                    Madras Fertilizer Ltd.
MP                     Madhya Pradesh
MPEB                   Madhya Pradesh El,ectricity Board
N                      Nitrogen Content in Fertilizers
NABARD                 National Agricultural Bank for Refinancing and
Development
Ncm, Ncmd              Normal Cubic Meters, per day
NFL                    National Fertilizers Limited
NGPC                   National Gas and Pipeline Corporation
NPK                    Nitrogen-Phosphate-Potash
OECF                   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
ONGC                   Oil and Natural Gas Commission
PDIL                   Projects and Development India Ltd.
PIB                    Public Investment Board
PMT                    Project Management Team
P205                   Phosphorus PentoxiLde Content in Fertilizers
Scf                    Standard cubic feet (at 600 F = 15.5°C, 1 Atm)
SCF                    Standard Conversion Factor
SWCs                   State Warehousing Corporations
Rj                     Rajasthan
RBI                    Reserve Bank of India
RCF                    Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd.
tph, tpd, tpy          Metric ton per hour, per day, per year
tyn                    Ton per year of nutrient
UP                     Uttar Pradesh
VLM                    Village Level Worker
WC                     Working Capital
NFL Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................1
II. THE INDIAN FERTILIZER SECTOR.                                           2
A. The Nitrogen Fertilizer Industry..                                3
B. Fertilizer Pricing .              .                               8
C.  Investment Strategy in the Fertilizer Sector .13
D.  Bank Group Role in the Sector ...........................   14
III. FERTILIZER MARKET IN INDIA .14
A. Fertilizer Use in Agriculture .14
B.  Historical Fertilizer Demand and Supply .16
C. Projected Growth in Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and
Production ...................................              17
IV.   MARKETING   AND  DISTRIBUTION    ..................................  18
A.  NFL's Market and Marketing Organization .19
B. New Markets ............................................    20
C.  Fertilizer Distribution .................................   22
D.  Agricultural Credit .....................................   25
E.  Agricultural Extension and Research .....................   25
V.    PROJECT OWNER AND SPONSOR ...................................   26
A.  NFL's Organization and Management .......................   26
B.  NFL's Fertilizer Plants and Production Performance .27
C.  Historical Financial Performance and Projections .29
VI. THE PROJECT .30
A.  Project Objectives and Bank Role .30
B.  Project Scope and Technology ............................   31
C. Project Location .32
D. Gas Supply Arrangements .33
E. Power Supply .35
F. Water Supply .35
G.  Other Infrastructure ...................................    36
H. Environmental Considerations .37
This report was prepared by Kurt Loos, Harald Burmeister, Michael Pearson,
and Kyung Song of the Industry Department. Mesdames E. George, M. Salehi
and S. Rajput, provided word processing and secretarial assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- lii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                           Page No.
VII.  PROJECT MANGEMENT AND EXECUTION .............................   38
A.  Engineering Arrangements and Transfer of Technology.....  38
B.  Project Management and Implementation ...................   39
C.  Project Schedule ........................................  41
D.  Operational Manpower and Training .......................  41
VIII. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS.   42
A.  Project Capital Cost ....................................  42
B.  Financing Plan .........        ................................   44
C.  Procureinent and Disbursement ............................  45
IX. FINANCIAL ANYSIS...                                                    47
A.  Revenues and Operating Costs ............................  47
B.  Financial Projections for the Project ...................   50
C.  Consolidated Financial Projections of NFL ...............   51
D.  Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Sensitivity Analysis.   52
E.  Financial Covenants and Reporting Requirements ..........* 53
F.  Major Risks .............................................  54
X.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........................................  55
A.  Economic Costs and Benefits .............................  55
B.  Economic Rate of Return .................................   56
C.  Other Benefits and Sectoral Contributions ...............  56
XI.   AGREEMENTS ................................................. 57
ANNEXES
2    Nitrogen Fertilizer Plants
3-1   Indian Agriculture Statistics, 1952-1931
3-2   Historical Consumption, Production and Imports of Fertilizers,
1952-1983
3-3   India - Projected Growth of Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and
Production
4-1   NFL - Marketing Program
4-2   Historical and Projected Consumption of Nitrogen Fertilizers for
Selected States and All India
4-3   Description of New Markets for MP Plant
5    NFL Staff Incentive Schemes



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
7    Project Implementation Schedule
8-1   Capital Cost Estimate
8-2   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
9-1   Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
9-2   Urea Retention Price Calculation
9-3   Pro Forma Schedules for Financial Projections
9-4   Pro Forma Financial Statements for the Project
9-5   Consolidated Financial Projections for the Company and the Project
9-6   Financial Rate of Return Calculations
10-1  Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
10-2  Economic Rate of Return Calculation
10-3  Foreign Exchange Savings
CHARTS
C-1   Projection of Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Production
C-2   Waste Water Treatment System Flow Diagram
C-3   Project Execution Organization
MAPS
IBRD - 17274R Major Fertilizer Plants in India
IBRD - 17275R NFL - Existing and Future Market Areas and Marketing Offices
IBRD - 17324R Plant Location and Layout
IBRD - 17330R Proposed Fertilizer Complexes Based on South Bassein Gas
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference         Title, Authors and Date
A.                Marketing Analysis Report, prepared by NFL, October 1982
B.                Incentive  Schemes  in  Fertilizer  Plants  in  the  Public
Sector in India.
C.               Vijaipur Fertilizer Project - Feasibility Report, prepared
by NFL, October 1982.
D.                Summary Findings of Site Optimization Study for Six Gas
Based Fertilizer Plants, prepared by Ministry of Chemicals
and Fertilizers, March 1983.



-iv -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE (continued)
Reference         Title, Authors and Date
E.                Geotechnical Investigation Report on MP Fertilizer Project
site, prepared by PDIL, January 1984.
F.                Feasibility Report of H-B-J Gas Pipelines, prepared by
EIL, July 1983.
G.                Pro Forma Report on Ruthiai Tank Project, prepared by
Irrigation Department of the Government of MP, January
1983.
H.                Feasibility Report for Transportation of Heavy and
Oversized Equipment, prepared by PDIL, September 1983.
I.                Environmental Impact Assessment on Madhya Pradesh
Fertilizer Project, prepared by NFL, March 1983.
J.                Project Implementation Manual, prepared by NFL, July 1983.
K.                Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project:  Capital Cost Estimate,
prepared by NFL, February 1984.



INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of India (GOI, the Government) has requested Bank
financing for the Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project (the Pioject) to be
built at Vijaipur, about 25 km southwest of Guna, in the State of Madhya
Pradesh (MP) on a green field plant site (IBRD Map 17274R).   The Project
will be implemented and operated by National Fertilizers Limited (NFL), a
wholly-owned Government company established in August 1974. NFL is a major
producer of fertilizers (about 15% of India's total nitrogen production)
and owns three large nitrogen fertilizer complexes at Nangal, Bhatinda
(both in Punjab) and Panipat (Haryana).   With the exception of one rela-
tively small calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) works, they all consist of
modern and integrated ammonia/urea plants based on fuel oil.  The Nangal
Expansion Project was financed with IDA assistance of a US$58 million
Credit (Credit No. 357-IN dated February 9, 1973).  On the basis of past
performance, in terms of both implementation capability and operational
efficiency, the Company is considered to be well suited for undertaking the
proposed Project, to handle the production aspects and to market its
output.
1.02       The overall Project scope consists of two components:  a produc-
tion facility for an ammonia/urea complex with an installed capacity of
726,000 metric tons per year (tpy) of urea and the preparation of a rehabi-
litation study of two coal-based fertilizer plants. The proposed fertiliz-
er complex includes one single-train 1,350 tons per day (tpd) ammonia unit,
two 1,100 tpd urea units, related offsite and utility facilities, and
infrastructure requirements. Execution of the Project is planned to begin
in April 1984 and commercial production is expected to commence in April
1988, 48 months after zero date. US$200 million of the proposed Bank loan
of US$203.6 million will cover approximately 32% of the estimated financing
requirements of US$636 million of the fertilizer complex and about 70% of
its foreign exchange cost of about US$290 million.   The remaining debt
financing will be provided by the Government (US$31 million), Japan's
Overseas Economic Corporation Fund (OECF about US$63 million) and bilateral
sources from Denmark and Italy (about US$13 million). About US$21 million
of short-term borrowing will be secured from commercial banking channels.
Of the equity portion of about US$308 million, two-thirds will be raised
through Government contributions and one-third through NFL's internal cash
generation.
1.03        The Project is part of an overall Government plan to make the
most economic use of the large off-shore hydrocarbon reserves near Bombay,
particularly aimed at utilizing free gas from the South Bassein field. It
is estimated that this field has a recoverable free gas reserve of 260
billion normal cubic meters (Ncm) sufficient to maintain a production rate
of 20 million Ncmd for at least 30 years.   An additional 5-7 million Ncmd
will be produced from other fields near Bombay. The vast availability of



- 2 -
natural gas, which is technically and economically the preferred feedstock
for  nitrogenous  fertilizer  production,  has  prompted  the  Government  to
embark on an investment program involving several large-scale ammonia/urea
plants.   T'he proposed Project will consume about 2 million Ncmd at full
production or 7.4% of the available gas from off-shore Bombay gas fields.
The proposed Project is the fifth fertilizer plant after the Thal and
Hazira projects, each with two plants, to use South Bassein/Bombay High
gas. It primarily aims at increasing the availability of end-use fertili-
zers in an effort to raise fertilizer consumption from its present below-
average levels in Madhya Pradesh and nearby areas within adjoining states.
Madhya Pradesh, one of India's largest states dominating the central part
of the subcontinent, has suffered in the past from low rates of fertilizer
application due, in part, to limited availability, long distances of trans-
port and poorly  developed  distribution  system.   With  easier access  to
fertilizers, crop yields are likely to be improved, for which there is good
potential, thanks to the large areas of fertile soil suitable for intensi-
fied agricultural practices.   Part of the output of the Project will be
marketed  in the States of 'Vttar Pradesh and Rajasthan where fertilizer
supply deficits are expected to continue until the early 1990s.
1.04      In addition to the green-field fertilizer complex, the Government
has also requested financing for a rehabilitation study of two coal-based
fertilizer plants owned by Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI) at Talcher
and Ramagundam.   US$3 million of the proposed Bank loan is allocated for
the funding of the rehabilitation study in support of the Government's
effort to improve overall fertilizer sector performance by debottlenecking
existing plants which are encountering mnajor constraints in achieving
design capacity utilization.
1.05         The Project was appraised in February/March 1983 by a Bank
mission consisting of Messrs. K. Loos (Chief), H. Burmeister and M. Pearson
of the   Industry Department.   Following delays in the initiation of the
Project due to changes in selection of technology and engineering contrac-
tors, the Project was reappraised in February 1984 by a mission consisting
of Messrs. Loos, Heath, Pearson and Song.
II. THE INDIAN FERTILIZER SECTOR
2.01        Fertilizer plays an important role in India's agriculture which
contributes about 40% of the country's GDP and provides employment to over
70% of the total work force.  India's development plans have emphasized the
objective of agricultural self-sufficiency, and efforts in this direction
have resulted in an increase of over 65% in agricultural production during
the last two decades.   Increasing productivity  through improved farming
practices and the use of modern inputs have been of paramount importance,
especially in light of the negligible scope for expanding the land avail-
able for agriculture.   The objective of further expanding fertilizer use
which has grown at a compound annual rate of 9.3% since the early 1970s and
totalled, in 1983/84 7.3 million tons per year of nutrient (tyn), is an
integral part of GOI's agricultural development strategy and has received
the Government's close attention.



- 3 -
2.02       India is now the fourth largest fertilizer producer in the world
with a total production in 1983/84 of 4.5 million tyn, of which 3.5 million
tyn was in the form of nitrogen. In spite of this large production recent-
ly, the country still has a supply gap of about one-third of its require-
ments or some 2.8 million tyn at a value of about US$1.1 billion corres-
ponding to some 13% of the total annual world fertilizer trade and
representing about 12% of India's merchandise export earnings. The result-
ing outflow of foreign exchange has a considerable negative impact on
India's balance of payments. To increase domestic production of fertiliz-
ers so as to substitute for imports, the Government is attaching high
priority to installing new production facilities as well as increasing the
level of capacity utilization at existing plants.
A. The Nitrogen Fertilizer Industry
2.03       India currently has a production capacity of 5.2 million tyn of
nitrogenous fertilizer and 1.5 million tyn of phosphatic fertilizer. With
completion of the plants presently under construction or sanctioned by GOI
to be built, including the Project, total nitrogen capacity will increase
to 7.4 million tyn by 1988/89 and phosphatic fertilizer capacity will
increase to 1.8 million tyn. There is no potash production in India due to
the lack of exploitable local raw material resources.
2.04      This vast production capacity has been developed in the course of
some 30 years. There are 20 nitrogen fertilizer producers in India operat-
ing 35 plants.   The majority of the plants produce nitrogenous fertilizer
in form of urea for direct application or in combination with other nutri-
ents as compound fertilizers.   Annex 2 provides a list of these plants,
their respective ownership, products manufactured, feedstock base, produc-
tion capacity,actual production from 1981/82 through 1983/84, and rates of
capacity utilization. Twenty-two of the plants, representing about 58% of
total nitrogen capacity, are owned wholly or partly by the Central
Government, 11 plants (32% of capacity) by the private sector, and the
remaining two (10% of capacity) by the cooperative sector.   The locations
of the principal fertilizer plants are shown on the attached IBRD Map
17274R.
2.05      Feedstock for Nitrogenous Fertilizers.  Prior to the discovery of
the natural gas reserves, the emphasis in developing production capacity
during the 1960s was mainly based on the use of naphtha as feedstock.
Long-term planning in the early 1970s envisaged a change first to fuel oil,
available from domestic petroleum refineries, and subsequently to abundant-
ly available coal as a means of decreasing India's dependence on imported
hydrocarbons.  Five fuel oil-based plants are now in operation (including
the NFL-owned plants at Nangal, Panipat and Bhatinda), and two coal-based
plants.  With the large quantities of natural gas now available, particu-
larly from the Bombay High/South Bassein off-shore oil and gas fields, the
latest plants now under construction are gas-based. Once the Hazira, Thal
and MP projects are in operation, nine plants based on natural gas will be
in production, and by the late-1980s, natural gas-based plants will account
for 36% of nitrogenous fertilizer capacity, naphtha-based plants for 30%,
fuel oil-based plants for 17%, and coal, coke oven gas-based plants for the
rest.



- 4 -
2.06       GOI is planning to increase India's natural gas-based fertilizer
capacity further by building five additionaL plants of the size of the MP
project (para 2.30).   The implementation of this program, which is likely
to take until the early 1990s, will increase the share of natural gas-based
capacity to over 50% of India's total nitrogen fertilizer capacity.  How-
ever, the timing of the implementation plan may require adjustments depend-
ing on actual fertilizer demaand growth.
2.07       Plant Capacities and Technologies.   A wide range of plant capa-
cities and ammonia technologies have been used in India.  Capacities range
from those of the small plants built in the 1950s and 1960s to the large
units of up to 1,350 tpd of ammonia currently being installed. This evolu-
tion reflects mainly the technologies available at the time of plant
construction. Production processes in commercial use include coal gasifi-
cation, electrolysis of water, coke oven gas cracking, partial oxidation of
fuel oil, and steam reforming of natural gas and naphtha.   Following the
developments in more advanced countries since the early 1970s, the latest
gas-based installations are based on steam reforming and involve large
capacities allowing the use of more economical centrifugal compressors.
India has now acquired substantial experience in building and operating
modern plants with a wide range of plant sizes and technologies.
2.08       Capacity Utilization.  In addition to planning for further capa-
city expansions, GOI is placing considerable emphasis on measures necessary
to increase capacity utilization of existing plants. Recent levels, indi-
cated for each plant in Annex 2, are summarized by sector in the following
table:
India - Capacity Utilization of Nitrogen Fertilizer Industry
(in percent)
Sectors
Public    Private    Cooperative           All India
1977/78          64         79             88                 74
1978/79          62         75             92                 72
1979/80          49         79             73                 66
1980/81          41         63             85                 53
1981/82          54         64             89                61
1982/83          54         83             91                67
1983/84 (est.)  57          82             88                 68
The all-India average capacity utilization which was showing perceptible
improvement in the mid-1970s, took an unfavorable turn during the period
1979 to 1980. Production in many plants suffered because of non-availabi-
lity of feedstock such as naphtha, fuel oil and coal, and because of power
supply  interruptions;  these  factors  alone  were  responsible  for  annual
losses in production of over 300,000 tons of nitrogen.   Some of the con-
straints were due to unforeseen external factors, including temporary
operational difficulties of the railways and political disturbances in the
oil producing and refining State of Assam, interrupting the supply of naph-
tha and fuel oil to many parts of the country. With the introduction of
unit-train operations in late 1980, rail movement of coal and fuel oil has
significantly improved. These factors resulted in the recent improvements



- 5 -
in capacity utilization which in 1983/84 reached an estimated overall level
of 68% in spite of severe power and water shortages in South of India which
caused an estimated loss in production of about 175,000 tons of nitrogen.
But for these production losses average capacity utilization would have
risen to 72%.
2.09       Capacity utilization levels have varied widely between different
plants and companies and last year ranged from 19% in one extreme to 97% in
the other.   Although most of the larger plants operated at acceptable
levels, i.e., over 70% of capacity, seven of them, all in the public sector
and accounting for 26% of the country-wide capacity and for 45% of public
sector capacity, produced at rates below 50%, as slhown in the table below:
India - Nitrogen Fertilizer Plants with Low Capacity Utilization
Plant Capacity
in % of Total         1983/84
Age in    Public Sector        % Capacity
Plant            Feedstock           Years         Capacity        Utilization
Ramagundam       Coal                  4             8                  33
Talcher          Coal                  4             8                  19
Namrup           Natural Gas           8             7                  41
Barauni          Naphtha               9             5                  40
Durgapur         Naphtha              11             5                  46
Rourkela         Coke Oven Gas        17             4                  19
Udyogamandal    Naphtha               23             3                  46
2.10        The Ramagundam and Talcher coal-based plants, although commis-
sioned in 1980, have not yet been stabilized and are still operating at low
levels, mainly due to technical problems associated with the use of a new
and difficult coal gasification technology for ammonia production, inter-
ruptions  in power supply and  inadequate  gasifier  capacity.   Given  the
pioneering nature of the technology employed, these plants are not repre-
sentative of the industry at large and are regarded by the Government as
research and development plants. As part of this loan it is proposed that
the Bank finance a comprehensive rehabilitation study of both plants in
preparation for the investment phase in which the Government has requested
Bank assistance (para 6.01).  The Barauni and Durgapur naphtha-based plants
faced original design and equipment defects that were never satisfactorily
corrected.   The Namrup plant has continually suffered from shortages of
natural gas due to production interruptions in the Assam oil and gas fields
and pipelines.  The two remaining plants, Rourkela and Udyogamandal are old
and to become economic, would need to raise sufficiently their operating
levels through substantial rehabilitation.   The GOI has decided to close
down the obsolete facilities at Udyogamandal and to operate Rourkela only
when the adjacent steel plant generates sufficient excess coke oven gas as
by-product.    Many  of  the problems  facing  the  industry  today  are  due
originally to decisions made at the plants' inception, such as use of not
fully proven technology, use of low quality equipment, poor design work,
and lack of in-house power and utilities. This was brought about, in part,
by foreign exchange shortages which caused over-reliance on tied foreign



- 6 -
equipment from sources that were not always compatible with each other.
Foreign exchange shortages also contributed  to a too rapid reliance on
unproven domnestic equipment manufacturing and. engineering industries.
2.11        It is difficult to generalize on the causes and the measures
needed to correct the physical deficiencies of the above-mentioned plants.
But GOI recognizes the need for a comprehensive approach based on system-
atic review and analysis, leading to investments to debottleneck certain
plants or alternatively, to decisions to close plants which cannot be made
economical. Similar to other plants in the sector, Bank-assisted projects,
on average, have also suffered from supply constraints during the operating
phase. Although Bank projects were generally well designed, they were not
spared from frequent power cut-offs or feedstock and fuel supply interrup-
tions due to transport bottlenecks.   For new undertakings such as Hazira
and 2MP Projects, GOI is already taking measures to avoid past mistakes:
projects are now more closely scrutinized by technical committees which
include representatives from the operating firms, Government and engineer-
ing firms, and more attention is now given to the use of proven technology
and proven equipment, with foreign firms participating.   Also, new plants
are normally approved with sufficient captive power capacity to enable them
to operate without reliance on unstable outside supply for critical plant
loads, and greater emphasis is given to ensure the availability of adequate
transportation and infrastructure facilities. In the case of the gas-based
plants of Hazira and the proposed Project, supply problems are practically
eliminated since natural gas as feedstock and fuel will be provided through
a pipeline which is less prone to supply interruptions.
2.12      With regard to the existing plants, as discussed with the Bank in
connection with this Project, GOI has recently initiated a comprehensive
plant-by-plant study to identify technical rehabilitation measures which
would permit higher capacity utilization and energy conservation invest-
ments aimed at improving efficiency and reducing production costs. In this
context, technical and energy audits will be undertaken in all public
sector fertilizer plants.  Terms of reference were prepared by Bank staff
and discussed with GOI officials.   It is ithe Government's intention to
carry out energy audits initially in plants which have already achieved
satisfactory capacity utilization.   The first three energy audits in the
plants of NFL at Nangal, Bhatinda and Panipat have been completed by
Projects  and Development  India  Ltd.  (PDIL)  and  the  GOI  is  currently
reviewing  the  findings  and  the  recommendations  submitted  by  NFL's
management for further actions.   The GOI expects that the audits for the
plants of RCF, FACT and MFL will have been completed by December 1984.
Other plants like Durgapur, Barauni and Namrup of HFC which were earlier
subject to technical audits will be examined for energy conservation
purposes as soon as the plant modifications (including installation of
captive power capacity in all three plants) currently being undertaken will
have resulted  in a better and more stable operating performance.   GOI
officials anticipate that the Bank will provide financing for energy
savings investments identified during the course of these studies under a
forthcoming fertilizer sector rehabilitation project.
2.13        Apart from the technical problems discussed above, many past
problems were also caused by lack of motivation of plant managers to act



energetically to resolve technical matters, improve capacity utilization
and reduce production costs. The present system of public sector manage-
ment selection, performance evaluation and incentives has not always been
conducive to motivating individual managers adequately to make concerted
eFforts in resolving problems in the same manner as one would normally
expect in the private sector.  There are many instances where plant manage-
raent attempted to resolve serious technical problems with their own
resources in order to avoid using more expensive expatriate assistance,
even though this action often resulted in even more costly delays and much
longer production build-up periods.   Similarly, during plant operations,
public sector managers often have been less aggressive than private or
cooperative sector maanagers in overcoming internal and external constraints
to full production.
2.14         Although incentive sclhemes have been used in most operating
plants, GOI recognizes that in general, senior managers have not been given
enough performance motivation since they were often excluded from specific
incentive schemes designed more to stimulate performance at the operating
and middle management levels (para 5.07).  An improved system has thus been
devised and is being used experimentally in three selected plants where
bonuses  are given also  to senior managers  for attaining pre-determined
levels of capacity utilization and specific consumption. The Governrment is
considering expanding this incentive scheme to cover the entire sector,
though alternative formulations may be needed for the older plants.
2.15         During project implementation,  management has  traditionally
enjoyed little autonomy in decisions concerning the choice of engineering
arrangements, equipment purchases and project implementation arrangements,
partly because GOI wished or was constrained to use to the maximum extent
domestic engineering and equipment. Furthermore, during construction, pro-
ject managers had little incentive to improve performance, reduce costs and
accelerate construction schedules.   In addition to lack of incentives,
there was no system to evaluate performance periodically on the basis of
measurable indicators.   In the new projects now under implementation, GOI
has started to change this: the main initial decisions on project scope,
technology and choice of engineering firms are still made by the Government
on the basis of studies and recommendations prepared by the firms and the
technical committees mentioned earlier (para 2.11). But within this frame-
work, project managers are now given almost total responsibility and auto-
nomy in the execution of the project.  In order to induce efficient project
implementation, a new scheme of incentives is being used as a test case in
the Thal project. Bonuses amounting to about 30% of basic wages and sala-
ries are being given to all workers and employees, including the senior
managers, if implementation tasks are completed on time.
2.16      Although operating under similar rules as the public sector, fer-
tilizer plants in the cooperative and private sectors have been attaining
higher levels of capacity utilization.   The difference from the public
sector however, cannot be entirely explained as being due to management and
ownership. The private sector plants are generally of smaller capacity and
are based on proven designs.   As a group,  they have been in operation
longer and have already solved their initial problems.  The public sector
plants, on the other hand, are generally of more recent origin, are larger,
use a mnore varied range of feedstocks and were built with much greater



- 8 -
involveinent of locally procured equipment which did not always perform as
reliably as imported equipment, and with domestic engineering firms which
do not always have the same experience as foreign contractors.
2.17        The full impact of the current efforts to improve the capacity
utilization of individual plants, plus the coming on stream of the two
large modern gas-based complexes at Thal and Hazira, both internationalLy
procured and for which a 90% capacity utilization is expected to be reached
in the third year of operation, are anticipated to be reflected in the
industry's overall capacity utilization levels, resulting in likely gradual
increases from the present 68% to a more satisfactory 75% by 1986/87 and to
over 78% by 1989/90.
B.   Fertilizer Pricing
2.18        Ex-Factory Prices.   Nitrogen fertilizer prices are controlled
statutorily by the Government - at both the ex-factory and farmgate
levels. While prices at which fertilizers are sold to farmers are uniform
throughout the country, ex-factory or retention prices are set on a plant-
by-plant basis, under a formula, introduced in 1977, which with given
conditions ensures the financial viability of the fertilizer plants, moti-
vates the industry to invest in new equipment and facilities, and gives a
strong  incentive  for  the producing units  to operate efficiently.   The
system allows each producing unit, when operating efficiently at 80% capa-
city utilization, an annual 12% after-tax return on equity; plants operat-
ing at lower rates earn a lower return, and those operating at higher rates
earn more than 12%.  It does not however compensate for production ineffi-
ciencies since it allows producers to recover costs and earn a return only
if the plant operates at acceptable input consumption norms.  Further, it
penalizes producers for capital cost increases suffered during construction
due to delays beyond original planned completion dates or to additional
preoperating expenses, interest during construction and project management
charges.   The  formula  therefore  ensures  that most  inefficiencies,  both
during implementation and operation, do not raise the retention price set
by the Government.
2.19        The pricing formula is designed to control sales prices within
the limits dictated by the capacity of farmers to pay and at the same time
to promote the build-up of domestic production capacity operating at effi-
cient economies of scale. These objectives have been largely achieved and
the formula has encouraged private investors to participate in the Indian
fertilizer sector as seen in the case of the planned five additional gas-
based ammonia/urea projects which will be implemented by private sector
companies  (para 2.32).   The weighted average ex-factory  retention price
allowed to the fertilizer companies throughout India during 1983 was about
Rs 2,800 per ton of urea (equivalent to US$275).  There are, however, wide
variations in retention prices among plants, based on their respective age,
configuration, size and feedstocks.   The average price, although   higher
than the farmer's price (US$211 equivalent per ton) and today's CIF landed
prices (US$213/ton), is somewhat lower than the CIF landed international
prices in the past when normal conditions prevailed (US$290/ton in 1980-81)
and clearly below the estimated landed long-term international equilibrium
price as estimated by the Bank of US$325/ton  (para 2.20).   Due to the
world-wide recession which has resulted in low demand and excessive



- 9 -
stocks, the international urea price is currently at a historical low of
US$148/ton (FOB, Europe).'/ This abnormally depressed price is expected to
improve with gradual reduction in available surplus of nitrogen fertilizer
in the world market.   The World Bank/UNIDO/FAO Fertilizer Working Group
projects a steady rise in world nitrogen demand which will absorb the
present surplus and lead to deficits in the late 1980s unless 10-15 large-
scale ammonia plants are commissioned each year.   Presently,  it appears
unlikely that a sufficient number of new projects will be undertaken in
time  to meet  this  growing demand.   The execution of  large  industrial
projects involve long lead time for planning and preparation and as a
result world-wide supply of nitrogenous fertilizer will become constrained
by the end of the decade.
2.20         According to projections of the Bank's Commodity Studies and
Projection's Division, international equilibrium prices of about US$260 per
ton of urea (in 1984 prices FOB Europe) are expected to be reached by the
end-1980s when demand and supply would be in balance,  The following table
provides a summary comparison of international and delivered prices in
1980/81, in early 1984, and the projected equilibrium price for the late
1980s.
International and Delivered Prices for Urea a/
(in 1984 US$/ton)
Based on Actual
Early       Estimated
1980-1981      1984       Equilibrium
Prices       Prices         Price
FOB, Rotterdam                         225            148           260
Freight to India                        50             50            50
Port Handling Charges                   15             15            15
GIF Landed Prices                 290           213           325
a/   These compare to the current farmer price of US$211 equivalent, and
the average weighted retention price of US$275 equivalent per ton of
urea.
Ex-factory prices may seem to be relatively high on the basis of today's
low international prices, but are reasonable compared with domestic prices
in other countries and normal international equilibrium prices.
1/   This is partly due to the fact that the surplus producers (US, Mexico
and Eastern Europe) do not have to price the energy input (in form of
natural gas) at its economic opportunity value, and hence distort the
international price structure. The international price level is also
depressed since major buyers such as China, Brazil and India have cut
back on imports in 1982/83.



- 10 -
2.21         Substantial increases in ex-factory prices in the last four
years reflect large increases in the cost of feedstock and other inputs, as
shown in the table below:
Past Trend of Domestic Urea Prices and Input Costs a/
Increase
1979       1983             %
Urea-Average Retention Price (Rs/ton)        1,700        2,800            65
Urea-Farmers, Price, (Rs/ton)                1,500        2,150           43
Natural Gas (US$/milLion BTU)                 0.45         4.90        1,290
Naphtha (US$/ton)                               89          227          155
Power (US cent/Kwh)                            3.2          5.6            75
Phosphate Rock (US$/ton, CIF Bombay)            54           93           72
Sulphur (US$/ton, CIF Bombay)                   96          154            60
Phosphoric Acid (US$/ton, CIF Bombay)          372          634           70
Interest Rate for Local Loans (% p.a.)        14.5         18.7           30
a!   US$ converted at exchange rates prevailing at the time.
2.22      Since energy represents the largest portion of nitrogen fertiliz-
er production costs (between 50% and 60%), large increases in domestic
energy prices had a noticeable impact on ex-factory fertilizer prices.
Today's natural gas price in India (equivalent to US$4.70/million BTU) is
among the highest in the world.   The equivalent average natural gas price
for industrial users in the US is currently about US$2.75/million BTU, and
is well below its real opportunity cost enabling US producers to sell
nitrogenous fertilizers at below economic prices.  Another important factor
that has contributed to the recent increases in average production costs in
India is the commissioning of new large plants which, although internation-
ally competitive, have higher capital depreciation costs than the older
plants in India2/ and elsewhere. For example, the retention price for the
proposed Project estimated at US$361 when newly commissioned will decline
to US$271 (in constant 1984 terms) as the plant ages.   Over the Project's
life, the average retention price is estimated at US$312 which would
clearly be below the projected delivered equilibrium price of US$362 (para
9.02).
2.23       Farmer Prices.  A comparison of the retail price paid by farmers
(excluding local sales tax) withi the import price of urea is given in the
table on the following page:
2/   This is partly due to the high level of tariffs and duties charged on
the import of machinery and equipment. GOI is reviewing the desirabi-
lity of exempting the fertilizer industry from these import duties.



- 11 -
India - Comparison of Past Domestic Retail Prices and Import Costs of Urea
(Current Rupees per ton)
Landed Cost
of Urea
Retail Price a/       Imports      b/
March 1972                                      959                 660
October 1973                                  1,050               1,164
June 1974                                     2,000               2,820
July 1975                                     1,850               2,620
March 1976                                    1,750               1,215
February 1977                                 1,650               1,295
October 1977                                  1,550               1,455
March 1979                                    1,450               1,530
November 1979                                 1,450               2,310
June 1980                                     2,000               2,640
July 1981                                     2,350               3,000
July 1983                                     2,150               2,000
March 1984                                    2,150               2,170
a!   Excludes pool equalization surcharge and local taxes.
b/   CIF Bombay (converted at exchange rates prevailing at the time), plus
allowances for port handling and related charges.
The above comparison shows that since the mid-1970s, domestic retail prices
have followed import prices reasonably closely, except during periods of
abnormally rapid changes in international prices.
2.24       The incentive to the farmer to use fertilizers depends not only
on their price but also on the crop prices obtained. A comparative analy-
sis of the historical movement of crops and fertilizer prices since 1974
shows that movements in crop prices have not kept pace with changes in
fertilizer prices as may be seen from the table below:
India - Fertilizer Prices and Consumption
Kgs of Crop            Growth of
As of             Price of Urea       Required to Buy           Nitrogen
February         (current Rs/ton)    1 kg of Nitrogen           Consumption
Wheat       Paddy          (in %)
1974                 1,050              3.0          3.3              (1)
1975                 2,000              4.1          5.9              (3)
1976                 1,850              3.8          5.4              22
1977                 1,650              3.6          4.9              14
1978                 1,550              3.0          4.3              18
1979                 1,550              2.8          3.7              17
1980                 1,450              2.7          3.3               2
1981                 2,000              3.7          4.6               5
1982                 2,350              3.6          4.4              11
1983                 2,350              3.4          4.2               4
1984                 2,150              3.1          3.5              15
Average                      3.3          4.3



- 12 -
Increases in farmgate prices, if not accompanied by adequate changes in
crop prices to maintain reasonable cost/benefit ratios, have a detrimental
effect  on  fertilizer  demand.    Presently,  Indian  fertilizer  prices  are
higher than in neighboring countries 3/ as reflected by the relatively
larger quantities of crop needed to guy one kg of nitrogen. 4/ It can
therefore  be expected  that  adjustments  in  fertilizer  prices  needed  to
reduce the rapidly growing subsidy burden (see paras 2.26-2.28), can only
be implemented gradually and in parallel with adjustments in crop prices if
adequate profitability and incentive to farmers' fertilizer use is to be
maintained.
2.25      Studies in India on yield response to fertilizer application show
that fertilizer use is profitable to farmers at current price levels.
However, the economic optimum of fertilizer use appears to be much higher
than the present application rates, especially in states like Punjab which
already have high  fertilizer  usage.   The  Government,  partly with Bank
support, is taking concerted measures to Lncrease agricultural productivi-
ty.  This, combined with steps to increase the profitability in farmers'
fertilizer use, should generate a sustained growth in its demand.
2.26      Subsidies.  The present farmer prLce for urea is approximately in
line with today's depressed landed price of imported product (paras 2.19
and 2.20), but is significantly below estimated international equilibrium
price.  The farmer price is also below the current average retention price
resulting in the need for subsidy. The fertilizer subsidy is administered
by GOI through reimbursement to producers, on a monthly basis, for the dif-
ference between the farmer price (net of dealer's margin and transportation
costs) and the agreed ex-factory price.
2.27      Drastic increases in domestic input prices (paras 2.21 and 2.22)
and recent growth in production volume have resulted in a sharp increase in
subsidies. Including reimbursements for transportation costs of fertilizer
from plants and ports to sales points, total subsidies paid by GOI which
amounted to the equivalent--expressed in 1981/82 dollars--of US$690 million
in 1982/83 (or US$108 per ton of nutrient consumed), are now estimated to
reach US$1,085 million in 1983/84  (US$148/ton) but to   decline to about
US$1,007 million in 1984/85 (US$129/ton). The anticipated decrease in sub-
sidy of 9% per ton of nutrient in 1984/85 against the previous year is
largely the result of expected savings due to improved operating efficien-
cy, rationalization in distribution and reduced inventories in the Govern-
ment-held fertilizer pool.
2.28        In view of the burden of this subsidy on the budget, GOI has
recently formed a high-level inter-Ministerial committee to review this
issue and to make recommendations by the end of FY1984/85. A subsequently
3/   Equivalent to US$211 and substantially above the prices farmers have
to  pay  for  urea  in  neighboring  countries:    Bangladesh    US$154,
Indonesia US$110, Pakistan US$180 and Sri Lanka US$121 per ton of
urea.
4/   E.g.,  the  paddy  requirements  to  buy  1  kg  of  nitrogen  in  the
neighboring countries are:   Pakistan  2.7;  Bangladesh  3.4;  and  Sri
Lanka 1.8.



- 13 -
constituted sub-group was given the task to evaluate data relating to the
following aspects of pricing: input prices, plant feedstock and utility
consumption  efficiencies,  capacity  utilization,  international  trade  and
international prices for fertilizers, and the existing system for computing
retention prices by the Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee.   The
feasibility of decontrolling fertilizer prices at retail level in general
is expected to be reviewed again; however, according to many Indian ofFi-
cials due to the overriding need for India to feed a rapidly growing popu-
lation, it is unlikely that farmgate prices would be allowed to rise to
long-term international levels in the near future. 5/
C. Investment Strategy in the Fertilizer Sector
2.29       Taking into account the large fertilizer projects now underway,
including the proposed Project, and anticipated improveinents in the capaci-
ty utilization of existing plants, domestic nitrogen fertilizer production
is expected to further narrow the gap between domestic demand and supply,
although it will most likely not be entirely eliminated.
2.30        Expansion of domestic manufacturing capacity is planned to be
based on the Bombay High/South Bassein gas resources. The gas resources in
these fields are expected to yield at full production about 27 million
cubic meters of gas per day over a period of approximately 30 years.6/ A
working group formed in 1979 by the Ministries of Energy and Chemicals-and
Fertilizers had thus recommended in principle the installation of six new
1,350 tpd ammonia plants to be phased in a timely manner and each to be
justified on its own economic merits. The Madhya Pradesh Project would be
the first of the six. The gas would be transported to the new plants by a
pipeline extending inland from the land-fall point, near Hazira, of the
marine pipeline from the off-shore fields.   The pipeline route basically
follows the Western Railway. Its first section of about 630 km would pass
the Project site at Vijaipur in Madhya Pradesh (MP) from where it will be
linked to the proposed plant at Sawai Madhopur in Rajasthan (Rj). From MP
the pipeline will continue to Uttar Pradesh (UP) eventually to serve four
more gas-based fertilizer plants currently in the planning stage (IBRD Map
17330R).   The total length of the pipeline system- is estimated at about
1,700  km.   About  two-thirds  of the initial pipeline capacity would be
needed to supply the six new plants.
2.31        Regarding phosphate fertilizers, India is not likely to expand
local production capacity significantly since domestic rock phosphate
reserves (located mainly in Rajasthan) are small and not expected to
contribute  more  than  about  100,000  tpy  of  P205.    The  Government  is
therefore planning to further develop phosphatic fertilizer capacity on the
basis of imported rock phosphate and sulfur or phosphoric acid.  Capacity
additions are being planned at several locations, including Kandla, Goa and
Tuticorin.
5/   Although the GOI reduced farmgate fertilizer prices by an average of
7.5% as of June 29, 1983, this short-term measure to increase
fertilizer, demand following an exceptionally poor monsoon, does not
reflect any conclusion by the committee regarding the long-term
pricing policy.
6/   See SAR, South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project, No. 4097-INa.



- 14 -
2.32        Given the substantial claims on public funds in resource-con-
strained circumstances and limitations in managerial capabilities of the
public sector, GOI has sought participation of private firms to own, build
and operate some of the new fertilizer plants.  It is envisaged that the
five additional ammonia/urea plants planned (para 2.30) will be carried out
in the private and cooperative sectors. Several investment proposals from
private firms have been approved in principle or are under consideration by
the Government.  At the same time, GOI recognizes the importance of main-
taining a fertilizer pricing system which will provide satisfactory returns
comparable with internationally competitive and efficient plants, and to
facilitate private companies' access to adequate long-term financing.
D.   Bank Group Role in the Sector
2.33      The Bank Group has so far participated in financing ten fertiliz-
er projects in India with a total contribution of nearly US$900 million.
The most recent operation was an IDA credit of US$400 million for the
Hazira Fertilizer Project (Credit 2852-IN of March 1981) which is expected
to be completed in late 1984, and an IFC investment of US$8.5 million in
the Deepak Fertilizer Project (approved in November 1979).   Earlier Bank
Group financing has been through IDA for six public sector projects, IFC
for three private sector projects, and IBRD for a cooperative sector
project.
2.34       The Bank's major objective in all the above projects has been to
support India's strategy for increasing domestic production of basic commo-
dities such as fertilizers which India has a comparative advantage in
producing.   The Bank/IDA-financed projects have also aimed at optimizing
the design, scope and selection of projects and improving project organiza-
tion and management capabilities in the public sector, as well as project
implementation time and capacity utilization.  On the whole, these objec-
tives have been satisfactorily achieved, particularly in the more recent
projects.  At the same time, continued Bank Group assistance is necessary
and justified, considering that during the next ten or so years India plans
to invest some US$4-5 billion in new fertilizer production and related gas
supply facilities, and that the new generation of plants involves the
development of new entities and larger and more complex organizations than
have existed in India today.
III. FERTILIZER MARKET IN INDIA
A. Fertilizer Use in Agriculture
3.01         Throughout most of its history,  India's food production has
depended on monsoon rains which failed periodically.  However, since 1951
Indian agriculture has been gradually transformed.  As shown in Annex 3-1,
from 1952 to 1981 foodgrain output increased at an average annual rate of
3.2%,  to 130 million tons.   This compares to a population growth rate
during  the same period,  of 2.2% p.a.,  to 684 million.   Part of this
increase in agricultural output, particularly in the more recent past, is
attributable to changes in cropping patterns, improved farming practices



- 15 -
and inicreasing research and extension efforts, but much of it is due to (a)
the substantial expansion of irrigation, an annual growth of 3% of India's
gross irrigated area; (b) an increase, particularly up to the mid-1960s, in
the area under multiple cropping (at an overall annual rate of 2.7%); (c)
the cultivation of high-yielding varieties (HYVs), particularly of wheat
and rLce which since their introduction in 1966 have spread to 26% of gross
area sown; and (d) the application of chemical fertilizers which increased
at an overall annual rate of 16.1%.   As a result of these improvements,
India's need for food imports has declined dramatically. Nevertheless, to
feed the still growing population, continued increases in food production
need to be maintained.
3.02        India ranks third in the world in gross cultivated area (after
the USSR and the US), and has one of the largest irrigated areas.  As of
1981, India's gross cultivated area stood at 173 million ha; the gross
irrigated area totaled 55 million ha, of which 77% was under food grain.
Possibilities for increasing agricultural land are extremnely limited and
further increases in foodgrain production will have to come from more irri-
gation, greater use of HYVs, further improvements in cropping practices,
and greater use of fertilizers.   Although fertilizer consumption per hec-
tare of gross cultivated area has increased substantially throughout India,
from 0.6 nutrient kg per hectare of arable land in 1951 to 13.6 kg/ha in
1970/71 and 36.6 kg/ha in 1982/83, the country still consumes significantly
less fertilizer per hectare than many other developing countries, e.g.,
Brazil  (79 kg/ha),  Mexico  (67 kg/ha),  and China (150 kg/ha).   Overall,
about 85% of all fertilizers is used in irrigated areas, which represents
about 32% of the country's  cultivated  land.   The remaining 15% of the
fertilizers go to rain-fed areas which comprise 70% of the arable land.
This low consumption level - particularly in non-irrigated areas - is
partly due to the limited availability of fertilizers in many remote parts
of India frequently caused by transportation and distribution constraints,
but more importantly to the high risks incurred, and the low profitability
in use  of modern  inputs  at  current  levels  of  farm  technology  in the
non-irrigated areas.   Variability  in water supply,  inadequate extension
services, and logistical difficulties in selling crops at attractive prices
also contribute to the low use of fertilizers.
3.03        There are wide variations in the intensity of fertilizer use
among different states.  While the Punjab recorded a nutrient application
of 128 kg/ha in 1982/83, others such as UP, MP and Rj, used only 61 kg/ha,
11 kg/ha, and 9 kg/ha, respectively.  Part of this variation can be attri-
buted to differences in the availability of irrigation, climatic and topo-
graphical conditions and soil characteristics, and existing farm income
levels, but much of it is explained by the factors described in the prev-
ious paragraph, as well as the actual use of HYVs.  Since in states such as
UP, MP and Rj the percentage of farmers using any fertilizer at all is low
and fertilizer use is concentrated in relatively few districts, there is a
significant potential for increasing overall fertilizer consumption.
3.04       Nitrogen fertilizer is available in straight form as four main
products: urea (containing 46% nitrogen), ammonium sulphate (20.6%), ammo-
nium sulphate nitrate (26%), and CAN (21-26%).   The product mix consumed
has changed markedly over the years.  In 1961, only about half the nitrogen
was consumed in the form of urea; since then, urea and other high analysis



- 16 -
materials have become dominant in the market due to cost savings in bagg-
ing, storage and transport per unit of nutrient compared with other less
concentrated products.  About 78% of all nitrogen fertilizers used is now
applied  in  form  of urea.   The  other  straight  nitrogenous  fertilizers
account for only 9% of consumption, the balance (13%) being supplied in the
form of complex fertilizers composed of nitrogen (N) and phosphate (P205),
and to a lesser extent potassium (K20).
B. Historical Fertilizer Demand and Supply
3.05        The past Indian consumption, production and importation of fer-
tilizers are shown in Annex 3-2 and summarized in the table below:
India - Past Fertilizer Consumption, Production and Imports
(in million tons of nutrient)
Year                Nitrogen               Phosphate            Potash               Totals b/
Cons.  Prod. Import     Cons. Prod.  Import    Cons. Import     Cons. Prod. !nport
1960/61          0.2    0.1     0.4      0.1    0.1    a/       a/      a/        0.3    0.2     0.4
1970/71          1.5    0.8     0.5      0.5    0.2    a/       0.2     0.1       2.3    1.1     0.6
1975/76          2.1    1.5     1.0      0.5    0.3    0.4      0.3     0.3       2.9    1.9     1.6
1977/78          2.9    2.0     0.8      0.9    0.7    0.2      0.5     0.6      4.3    2.7      1.5
1980/81          3.7    2.2     1.5      1.2    0.8    0.5      0.6     0.8      5.5    3.0      2.8
1981/82          4.1    3.1     1.1      1.3    1.0    0.3      0.7     0.6      6.1    4.1      2.0
1982/83          4.3    3.4     0.4      1.4    1.0    0.1      0.7     0.6      6.4    4.4      1.1
Average Annual Growth Rates (in %)
1977/78-1982/83   7.9   11.4             10.4    8.0            7.8              8.4   10.6
1970/71-1982/83   9.2   12.5             8.4   13.0             9.9               9.1   12.6
1960/61-1982/83  14.6   16.8             16.1   14.1           15.8              16.1   16.0
a! Less than 100,000 tyn.
b/ Differences in addition due to rounding.
Consumption of all fertilizers  increased  from  294,000  tyn  in  1960/61  to
6.4 million tyn in 1982/83, representing an overall annual growth rate of
about 16%.   Nitrogen consumption, representing  some two-thirds  of total
fertilizer used, increased at an annual rate of 14.6% (from 212,000 tyn in
1960/61 to 4.3 million tyn in 1982/83) over the same period.  Partly due to
the normal tendency for compound growth to diminish as the base rises, this
rate has been decreasing over the more recent years: for the period 1970/71
to 1982/83 to an annual rate of 9.2%, and since 1977/78, to an annual rate
of 7.9%.   The decline  in  growth  rate  was partly  also  attributable  to
adverse conditions such as drastic price increases leading to abrupt reduc-
tions in farmers' input-output price ratios in the mid-1970s and early
1980s (para 2.24) and the diminishing rates at which new irrigation facili-
ties were installed.
3.06         Although fertilizer production has increased  at a rapid  pace
(about 16% per year since 1960/61), it still lags behind domestic



- 17 -
consumption.   Therefore, increasing quantities had to be imported.   When
considering nitrogen alone, domestic production has approached demand more
closely than in the case of other nutrients due to the recent completion of
several new plants.  The supply gap covered by imports amounted to about
20% of nitrogen demand in 1982/83 against 31% for all fertilizers.
C. Projected Growth in Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Production
1.   Demand
3.07      Indian fertilizer consumption can be expected to continue to grow
due to (a) the determined Government efforts to increase agricultural out-
put; (b) the wide disparities in fertilizer use among states which provide
an opportunity for broadening the fertilizer demand base; and (c) the con-
tinuing efforts to increase agricultural productivity which will lead to
increased levels of fertilizer consumption. However, maintaining the level
of growth of the past will be difficult and the trend of declining consump-
tion growth rates is expected to continue as the demand base widens.
3.08        Although nitrogen fertilizer consumption is estimated to have
increased by 15% in 1983/84 as a result of unusually good weather condition
and favorable cost/benefit ratios for the usage of fertilizer, Bank staff
have prepared projections of nitrogen fertilizer demand assuming a gradual
decline from the present high growth level to about 6% by 1989/90 and 5% by
the mid-1990s.
3.09        These projections, shown in Annex 3-3 and graphically presented
in Chart C-1, point to levels of nitrogen consumption of 7.2 million tyn by
1989/90 and 11.8 million tyn by 1999/2000.  They are substantially in line
with the recent projections prepared by the Fertilizer Association of India
(FAI) which estimates demand of some 6.9 million tyn by 1989-90, although
they do not fully reflect the large increase in fertilizer consumption
experienced in 1983/84.   Projections were also prepared for a more conser-
vative but less likely scenario, assuming a gradual reduction of growth
rates to 4% by the end of this decade and thereafter, pointing to  6.6
million tyn and 9.8 million tyn by 1989/90 and 1999/2000, respectively.
2.   Production
3.10       Taking into account plants in operation, under construction and
sanctioned by GOI to be built, including the proposed Project, India's
nitrogen production capacity will increase from the present 5.1 million tyn
to 7.4 million tyn by 1988/89. Assuming that average plant capacity utili-
zation levels for all existing plants can be raised to 75% by 1989/90 and
80% by 1994/95, and that the levels of capacity utilization for the new
natural gas-based plants should reach 90% within three years of start-
up,7/ total nitrogen fertilizer production is projected to increase from a
current 3.4 million tyn to 4.4 million tyn by 1984/85 and 6.1 million tyn
by the early 1990s.  If one were to add the five remaining planned natural
7/   Under  normal  operating  conditions  90%  capacity  utilization  can
reasonably be achieved by gas-based fertilizer plants.



- 18 -
gas-based ammonia/urea plants  (assuming that they can be completed at a
rate of one per year beginning 1988/89), total capacity would rise to 9.1
million by 1992/93.   At 90% capacity utilization for these plants, total
nitrogen production would eventually reach 7.6 million tyn by 1995/96. It
is unlikely, however, that these five plants can be implemented within this
tight schedule, given financial, managerial and implementation constraints
and therefore 7.6 million tyn may be optimistic.
3.   Demand/Supply Balance
3.11        The nitrogen demand and production projections described above
reveal that even with the construction of five additional plants, there
will be a gap between demand and supply, which will have to be covered by
imports. This is shown in the table below:
India - Projected Nitrogen Supply/Demand Gap
(in million tons of nutrient)
I                             II
Based on Plants             As under I, including
in Existence a/             five Additional Plants
Year                Supply   Demand   Shortage    Supply  Demand  Shortage
1982/83              3.4        4.3        0.8         3.4      4.3      0.8
1984/85              4.4        5.3        0.9         4.4      5.3       0.9
1989/90              5.8        7.2        1.i4        6.4      7.2      0.8
1994/95              6.1        9.2        3.:L        7.5      9.2       1.7
1999/2000            6.1       11.8        5.7         7.6    11.8       4.2
a/ Including plants under construction and the MP Project only.
3.12        Even with the more conservative but less likely slower demand
growth (para 3.09), there would still be supply shortages in nitrogen
fertilizer albeit at a lower level of 0.2 million tyn in 1989/90 and there-
after rising to 0.5 million tyn by 1994/95 and 2.2 million tyn by
1999/2000.
IV. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
4.01       Fertilizers are marketed to farmers mainly through cooperatives
and other institutional agencies and manufacturers' dealers. In India, the
cooperative system is the most important fertilizer channel, distributing
about 60% of all fertilizers through some 43,000 cooperative selling
points.   In almost all states,  there  is an Apex  Cooperative Marketing
Federation which coordinates the cooperative marketing of fertilizers and
other agricultural inputs in the state, and undertakes the marketing of
agricultural  products.   The private trade comprises wholesale agencies,
including three major companies operating country-wide, and retailers,
appointed by manufacturers or the wholesale agencies.  Private retailers
sell  their  materials  partly  to  sub-dealers  and  the  rest  directly  to



- 19 -
farmers.   Non-cooperative manufacturers are not significantly involved in
direct distribution to farmers, though some (including NFL) maintain a few
outlets as sales points/service centers.
4.02        The institutional structure of the cooperatives engaged in fer-
tilizer marketing varies somewhat from state to state, with a two-tier
structure (State Apex Cooperative Federations and village cooperatives) in
some  states,  and  a  three-tier  structure  (District-level  cooperatives
between the Federations and village cooperatives) in others. Operating in
parallel with the Apex Cooperatives are Apex Cooperative Banks which are
the main channels for providing credit to the farmers (para 4.26).
4.03        The bulk of fertilizers is moved from manufacturing points or
import  ports  by rail.   This has  led  to concentration,  principally  by
private dealers, of stocking points as well as sales outlets near rail-
heads. This concentration, sometimes away from the final consuming points,
has acted as a deterrent to more rapid increases in fertilizer consumption
in some parts of the country.   The Government is aware of the need for
opening more sales points in areas away from the railheads and has already
introduced incentives for dealers to operate close to consumption points.
Dealer margins have been substantially increased in order to compensate
adequately for additional transport and storage cost incurred by sales at
block points.   The Government is also improving, with Bank support, the
availability of fertilizers near consuming points by expanding cooperative
godown facilities.
4.04       Imports of nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers are undertaken
by the Government-owned Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation on behalf
of the Central Fertilizer Pool. Materials are then distributed by the Food
Corporation of India on behalf of the Pool.   Potash is distributed by
Indian Potash Ltd.   These agencies rely heavily on the cooperatives and
private dealers for the actual distribution within the country.
A. NFL's Market and Marketing Organization
4.05        The output of the proposed Project will be marketed by NFL.
Since production of the company's three large plants located in Punjab and
Haryana began in 1978/79, NFL's marketing group has established itself as
the principal fertilizer sales and distribution organization in the agri-
culturally most highly developed northern states of India where agricul-
tural productivity is substantially above country averages, and where
fertilizer application rates are high.   In 1982/83, consumption in Punjab
and Haryana amounted to 593,000 tyn and 220,000 tyn, respectively, corres-
ponding to nitrogen applications of 89.4 and 39.7 kg per/ha.  The company's
fertilizer sales have gradually increased to 467,000 tyn of urea and CAN
in 1982/83, resulting in NFL attaining market shares of 46% in Punjab and
Haryana and similar levels in the western districts of UP and the northern
districts of Rj located close to the NFL's plants.
4.06       To attain these results, NFL has - apart from establishing dis-
tribution channels via the cooperatives - developed a network of private
dealers (who in turn are working with over 3,000 sub-dealers at village
level), through which 50% of its production is marketed, applying intensive
and imaginative market development and promotion efforts, including farmer



- 20 -
assistance programs, farmer meetings and education programs which provide
an important catalytic effect to consumption.   Some 75% of NFL's private
sales outlets are located in Punjab and Haryana, with the remainder estab-
lished in close-by districts of neighboring states.  The other 50% of NFL's
sales vo:Lume is channelled through institutional agencies which include 21
State agricultural cooperatives and agro-industrial corporations, and
nearly 500 "focal points" in Punjab, each at the center of a group of some
10 surrounding villages which, besides their other activities, are
entrusted with the distribution of fertilizers.
4.07        NFL's marketing network is controlled by its Central Marketing
Office (CMO) located at Chandigarh, through six Regional Centers (two in
Punjab and one each in Haryana, UP, Rj, and Himachal Pradesh), to which in
turn report a total of nine Area Offices and 40 District Offices and Agro-
Service Centers ultimately responsible for the promotion of fertilizer
sales and day-to-day contacts with dealers and farmers.
4.08        NFL's expertise in fertilizer sales promotion and extension,
advertising and publicity, agricultural and market research, development
and training is centered in the CMO which consists of a full-fledged team
with funct:Lons such as planning, research, promotion and publicity, and
logistics (including fertilizer despatch, warehousing, and transportation),
as well as responsibilities for finance and personnel matters of the mar-
keting organization.  The CMO is led by experienced and dedicated indivi-
duals who take pride in their achievements.  Given its record, this team
should have no problem in expanding the scope of its activities to include
handling the output of the proposed Project and developing the new markets
to which the bulk of the output of the MP plant will be destined.
B. New Markets
4.09      Fhe attached IBRD Map 17275R slTows NFL's current marketing areas
together with the location of its plants and principal regional and area
offices, and also depicts the new areas into which NFL's marketing efforts
will expand to accommodate the output of the Project.  These comprise parts
of MP and districts of Rj and UP in addition to those already served by
NFL's existing plants (Reference A of Project File).
1.   Seeding Program
4.10       Following its commissioning in late 1987, there will be a rapid
build-up of the output of the new plant. It is therefore essential for NFL
to develop higher fertilizer demand in some of the new marketing areas
where consumption is currently low before the plant comes on stream.   In
order to activate the market's receptiveness to the Project's output, the
company has developed a "fertilizer seeding; program" during which fertil-
izer sales will be gradually increased beginning in 1983/84. This seeding
program is also designed to build-up NFL's marketing organization and
dealer network in MP with regional and area offices in Bhopal, Gwalior and
Indore and to strengthen its regional and area offices in Rj and UP.   In
order to develop its capabilities in the new areas under the seeding
program, the expanded marketing organization will undertake vigorous sales
promotion, publicity and service programs, using NFL's expertise developed
in Punjab and Haryana.    The Central and State Governments have supported



- 21 -
the seeding program and confirmed the assurance given to NFL that fertil-
izer quantities needed for the program beyond those that can be made avail-
able from NFL's existing production, will be forthcoming from the GOI
Fertilizer Pool.
4.11       The fertilizer volume to be handled by the seeding program is
summarized in the table below:
NFL - Fertilizer Seeding Program
(in '000 tyn)
State                       1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
Madhya Pradesh                     36       42        54        58       74
Rajasthan (New districts)           8        12       16        20       25
Uttar Pradesh (New districts)    42         51        54       63        82
Totals                     86       105      124       141       181
Of which to be supplied
from GOI Pool                    86      102       101      101       171
Source: National Fertilizer Limited.
NFL will market quantities gradually increasing from 86,000 tyn of urea in
the first year (1983/84) to 181,000 tyn in 1987/88.  This will permit NFL
to adequately establish itself in the various new market areas, attaining
market shares of 32% in MP and 20% in Rj, and maintaining 8% in UP, before
the MP plant comes on stream.
2.   Demand Projections in NFL Market Area
4.12      Annex 4-1 shows NFL's state-wise sales volumes and market shares
attained in 1982/83 and projections  through 1990/91,  the first year in
which the MP Project is expected to be in full production.   The annex
reflects the seeding program and the gradual increase of NFL's activities
in MP, Rj, and UP.  As a result of this program under which part of NFL's
existing production will be diverted to seed the new markets, fertilizers
available to the company's traditional market areas will stagnate, causing
a gradual decline in its market  share.   This  temporary  trend will be
reversed once production from the MP Project has started.  Annex 4-2 shows
the historical and projected consumption of nitrogen fertilizers in MP, Rj
and UP.   The demand outlook in these states varies greatly.   Annex 4-3
contains a brief description of the new markets.
3.   Supply Capabilities in NFL Market Area
4.13      Fertilizer consumption in each state can be met in principle from
three different sources:   production within or outside the states or from
imports through the GOI Fertilizer Pool.   The quantities and sources of
fertilizer supply for each state are determined in semi-annual programs
established by the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that (a) no important
production unit relies entirely on the market in one state, and that vice



- 22 -
versa, no state relies on one production unit for its entire requirements;
(b) mnarket requirements are met from domestic production as far as pos-
sible; (c) there are no radical changes fromi year to year in the marketing
areas of individual producers; and (d) the average freight distance from
individual production units is minimized.   Once the state-wise allocations
are made, plans are coordinated with the railways for the movement of fer-
tilizer, eliminating as far as possible cross-movements of similar products
from different producers.
4.14      The location of the Project vis-a-vis those of existing producers
with regard to shipping distance is of greatest advantage to markets in (a)
MP where no other large nitrogen fertilizer producer is established, (b)
the eastern parts of Rj where the market will be shared only with one other
producer located at Kota and currently supplying 30% of the market, and (c)
the central districts of UP, where several other producers are located but
with limited capacity, adequate to supply only up to 50% of demand
requirements.
C. Fertilizer Distribution
4.15         Provision of adequate distribution infrastructure in India to
handle the large and growing quantities of fertilizers, which in 1982/83
totalled some 14 million product tons, is of major importance. The princi-
pal physical facilities utilized are railways, roads and trucks, and ports
and warehouses.
1.   Railways
4.16      The railways carry about 60% of fertilizers distributed in India,
representing some 4% of the total rail movemnent.   The transportation and
distribution of fertilizers are facing difficulties in several parts of the
country because of railway capacity constraints and operational inefficien-
cies.  Some corridors are already insufficient to cope with traffic.  This
problem is generally recognized by GOI and is being tackled through an
active program of railway modernization, electrification, etc. However, no
constraints in track capacity are expected in the Project's marketing area
(para 4.18).
4.17        In addition to capacity  constraints, maintaining an efficient
level of railway operations can be a major problem since Indian fertilizer
traffic runs almost exclusively in one direction and therefore companies
often experience difficulties in obtaining an adequate number of empty
wagons close to production sites. In order to ensure a more efficient
transportation of the Project's output, rail movements will be carried out
in unit trains consisting of some 60 wagons each, carrying a total of
1,500-2,000 tons. Under this scheme, urea is moved to a limited but suffi-
cient number of nodal points which have been identified on the basis of
proximity to centers of demand in the different states.
4.18        NFL plans to move about 50% of the fertilizer produced by the
Project by unit trains in shipments distributed uniformly throughout the
year. On this basis it is assumed that once the MP plant has reached full
production, less than 200 such trains will be required during a year. One
third of these would go to destinations within MP, another third to UP and



- 23 -
the remainder to Rj and Uaryana.   Indian Railways indicated that there is
still sufficient  track capacity on the indicated routes and that there
would  be no difficulty handling  these  relatively minor quantities.   A
commnitment regarding product movement has been given by the Railway Board.
2.   Road Transport
4.19       The transportation of fertilizers to destinations falling within
a radius of 250 km fromn the MP plant will be by road directly to dealers.
Road transport will also be utilized for movements of fertilizer from the
nodal points in the market areas to buffer storage and then to the consump-
tion points.   In most states,  private road transport  is coordinated by
unions organized by the carriers themselves.   These unions help in allo-
cating traffic among the different operators and try to minimize empty
haulage. NFL's past experience with these arrangements has been satisfac-
tory.
3.   Warehousing
4.20      The main agencies engaged in the provision of storage facilities
for agricultural products and fertilizers are the Central Warehousing
Corporation (CWC) and the different State Warehousing Corporations (SWCs).
In addition, the cooperatives, a few fertilizer manufacturers and the Food
Corporation of India (which is responsible for holding most of the stock of
imported fertilizers on behalf of the Central Fertilizer Pool) maintain
independent warehousing capacities. The CWC currently has a total capacity
(including under construction) of 5.4 million tons and the SWCs own another
6.7 million tons of storage capacity throughout India, with an additional
2.4 million tons planned to be constructed by 1985.   About 40% of CWC's
storage space and a higher percentage of that of the other organizations
are planned to be utilized for fertilizer.   Warehousing capacity in the
principal states of interest to the Project is shown in the following
table:
Warehousing Capacity - Selected States and All India
(million tons)
CWC            SWC's          Total
Madhya Pradesh                          0.1             0.6             0.6
Rajasthan                               0.1             0.3            0.4
Uttar Pradesh                           0.6             1.3            1.9
All India:
-  In Operation                   4.3              5.6            9.9
-  Under construction              1.0             1.1            2.1
-  Planned (up to 1985)           1.1              1.3            2.4
-  Total                           6.4             8.0           14.4
Source: Central Warehousing Corporation.



- 24 -
Although the existing and planned storage capacity in the Project's market-
ing area will be sufficient to allow effective distribution of the
Project's output, there is a general need to upgrade facilities at nodal
points to permit increased use of unit trains particularly in the northwest
of India.  The planned facilities will include railway sidings with plat-
forms of the requisite length, and covered platform storage as well as
additional warehouses  where needed.   The Bank is presently considering
possible financial assistance to expand the nodal point scheme.   It is
expected that the improvements of nodal point facilities will also have a
beneficial impact on the Project's product distribution.
4.   Distribution Margin
4.21       One of the fertilizer distribution problems in recent years has
been the inadequacy of fertilizer distribution margins for dealers. Given
increases in transport costs and interest rates, the margins no longer
provided adequate compensation to dealers and retailers to stock fertiliz-
ers close to the consumption areas.   In order to minimize stocks, dealers
would take fertilizers only at the pace as ordered by farmers in advance,
with the result that fertilizers were often not readily available at the
required time.
4.22       The Government has recently approved a new system which provides
for distribution margins that vary seasonally, so as to provide premiums to
dealers who take fertilizers during off-seasons. Such premiums would com-
pensate for the cost of fertilizer storage up to the time when the material
is delivered to farmers.  The dealer's margins now range between Rs 90 to
Rs 180 per ton of urea depending on the timiing of the off-take.   These
variable margins are regarded as adequate to compensate dealers for trans-
port from producer warehouses, distribution and storage costs, and to
provide a reasonable return.
4.23      Although the fertilizer distribution system has improved with the
introduction of unit-train operations, there are still many inefficiencies
and transport and distribution costs are high due in part to lack of appro-
priate facilities for loading, unloading, shipping, bagging, and central
storage of fertilizers.   This and other related problems  in fertilizer
distribution are being addressed by GOI under a program to fully develop a
system of "nodal points" throughout the main fertilizer consumption areas
with the appropriate facilities.   The Bank has held discussions with GOI
officials about developing a project to help finance suitable facilities to
improve the fertilizer distribution system for which preliminary studies
have been undertaken.
5.   NFL's Storage Requirements
4.24        Currently, NFL occupies leased product storage space throughout
its market area.  Most of this space is located at or near railheads and at
market centers from where dealers and the cooperative societies can be most
conveniently supplied.   For the Project's output, plant site storage is
planned at 50,000 tons of urea (or about 25 days of production).  At full
capacity, NFL will require a total of 110,000 tons of new storage capacity
in the Project: market areas, both in the form of buffer godowns and smaller
field warehouses; the State-wide requirements would be 55,000 tons [or MP,



- 25 -
35,000 tons for UP and 20,000 tons for Rj.  These estimates assume a ware-
house turnover of 2.5 times per year, which is considered reasonable. NFL
intends to rent the required storage space, and no major problem in
securing such space is anticipated.
D. Agricultural Credit
4.25        Availability of credit plays an important role in determining
fertilizer use. Credit is needed at the stage of distribution, where it is
required by the cooperatives and dealers in order to hold the stock, and by
farmers who need it to enable them to invest in inputs until the harvests
are sold.
4.26      The sources of distribution credit are the GOI Central Fertilizer
Pool, Apex Cooperative Banks and commercial banks. Distribution credit is
available to cover about 70% of requirements, generally at short term
maturities.   GOI has been aware of the need for adequate distribution
credit and measures have been taken to make it readily available through
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which is extending credit to cooperatives
unable to obtain credit from commercial banks, and the regional rural banks
which make distribution credit available to cooperative societies.
4.27        For the farmer, the main sources of credit are the cooperative
system, commercial banks, regional rural banks and private money lenders.
About 42% of the institutional direct financing for agriculture comes from
Cooperative  Primary  Agricultural   Credit   Societies,   28%   from  Land
Development Banks and 30% from commercial banks. The farm credit needs of
the cooperatives are met primarily by the National Agricultural Bank for
Refinancing and Development (NABARD) channelling credit through the Apex
and district level cooperative banks.   Furthermore,  in many states,  the
cooperative structure is now integrating village societies into minibanks
where a farmer can obtain credit, agricultural inputs and essential consu-
mer goods in one location.
4.28       The Government has for some time been encouraging the commercial
banks to extend their activities into areas where the cooperatives do not
operate, for instance, in extending credit to the larger farms whose credit
needs exceed the limit permitted by the cooperatives. Areas with inadequate
banking coverage receive preference in the establishment of new bank bran-
ches. To further strengthen the credit system, the GOI has set up regional
rural banks; about 48 regional rural banks with 1,400 branches are in
operation.   These banks extend loans to small and marginal farm owners,
landless laborers and rural artisans for purchase of fertilizers and other
agricultural inputs.   Although the past growth of fertilizer consumption
does not seem to have been constrained by credit availability, the GOI and
RBI are aware of the need to strengthen the operations of credit institu-
tions and are taking measures, with Bank support, to ensure adequate and
timely availability of agricultural credit.
E.   Agricultural Extension and Research
4.29       Agricultural extension and research services are essential ele-
ments towards increasing agricultural productivity by improving cropping
practices and encouraging the use of more adequate farm technology.



- 26 -
Extension  services  are  carried  out  principally  by  State  Government
Departraents of Agriculture with some guidance from the Central Government.
Although extension organizations vary from state to state, broadly speak-
ing, each of the 5,000 Community Development Blocks in India has been under
the charge of a Block Development Officer, who employs several Village
Level Work-rs (VLWs), each one serving about 10 villages.
4.30      More than 112,000 persons are employed in agricultural extension
in State  Governments.    Staff  tend  to be added  to the Departments  of
Agriculture on an ad hoc basis as special needs and development programs
evolve.   Lines of control for these schemes converge only at the State
level,   creating  multiple   responsibilities   for  various  agricultural
extension activities.
4.31       Beginning in 1974, a new approach to agricultural extension, the
.train and visit" (T&V) system, has evolved to bring farm scientists and
field extension functionaries together and to integrate their activities.
The system which has been implemented in MP and Rj, among other states,
envisions a direct transfer of available farming techniques through a close
link between research, the extension service and the farmer.   The system
involves frequent and continuous follow-up by specialized agricultural
technicians who are given logistical and administrative support *by the
State Agricultural Departments.   Agricultural extension agents now have
responsibility exclusively for extension activities. The new system proved
to be successful after the community development approach had been modi-
fied, injecting a greater element of professionalism into the extension
service.   Particularly  encouraging have been the results from Bank/IDA
supported projects to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension
services in 13 Indian States, covering about 70% of India's net cropped
area and serving about 65% of all farm families.
V. PROJECT OWNER AND SPONSOR
5.01      As mentioned earlier, the Project was prepared and will be imple-
mented and operated by NFL, a fully Government-owned fertilizer company.
In terms of production capacity and annual output. NFL is one of the
largest fertilizer companies in India. In FY1982/83 NFL's total production
accounted for about 15% of India's overall nitrogen production on nutrient
basis. NFL has production facilities at three different locations--Nangal,
Bhatinda and Panipat--all situated in the northwestern part of India.
During the last two years, NFL operated profitably and earned a return on
investment between 8% and 12%.  Its sales amounted to about Rs 3.1 billion
(about US$304 million) in FY1982/83.
A.   NFL's Organization and Management
5.02        NFL was incorporated as a limited liability company in August
1974 with the specific responsibility of implementing two large fertilizer
complexes at Bhatinda and Panipat, each consisting of a 900 tpd ammonia
plant based on fuel oil and a 1,550 tpd urea plant. Both complexes, partly
financed with Japanese bilateral funding, were completed and successfully
started-up in 1979.   Following the geographically-oriented reorganization



- 27 -
of Government-owned production units into separate companies which came
into effect in April 1978, NFL took over ownership of the old Nangal plant,
as well as the new, Bank-financed, large-scale ammonia/urea complex at the
same location which started operations during FY1978/79.   As of March 31,
1983, NFL's paid-in share capital amounted to Rs 2,743 million fully sub-
scribed by the Government.   The Board of Directors of NFL consists of 8
members, comprising two members from the Government, four members from out-
side companies and the Managing and Financial Directors of NFL.
5.03      NFL is a large multi-unit organization which includes the afore-
mentioned three production facilities, the marketing department located in
Chandigarh (para 4.07) and the Company's headquarters in New Delhi.   The
General Managers heading the three fertilizer complexes are responsible for
day-to-day  operations  and  most  administrative  functions.    They  report
directly to the Managing Director of NFL.  The head office plays a coordi-
nating role, assisting the plant units with specialized expertise and long-
-term planning on taking decisions which are relevant to more than one
plant.   Each operating unit maintains its own independent accounts and
functions  as  a  separate  profit  center.    The  marketing  department  in
Chandigarh, which is located in the center of NFL's major market areas,
provides and coordinates the overall logistical support for transport,
distribution,  sales,  promotion  and  extension  services.    The  Matketing
Director and the Finance Director--the latter situated at headquarters--
also report to Mr. B. S. Kakkar, the Managing Director who has been in this
position since May 1981. With experience in operations as well as project
implementation, he is regarded as a highly competent manager in the fertil-
izer industry.
5.04       Established in 1974, NFL is a relatively young company.  Thanks
to the successful implementation and operation of India's first three fuel
oil-based ammonia/urea complexes, however, it has experienced rapid growth
and obtained considerable expertise in both project execution and opera-
tions. The staff participating in the execution of these projects became
the nuclei of the production, technical service and maintenance groups at
the three manufacturing sites and also form part of NFL's central technical
division, which is mainly responsible for project development and on-going
engineering services to the company.  As a result of on-going recruitment
programs for junior staff, in-house training programs, and active career
planning, NFL has accumulated sufficient talent with adequate experience.
Therefore, the staffing of the project task force and the operating team is
not expected to impose any undue constraints on the existing operating
facilities.  The present pool of staff qualified to hold managerial posi-
tions, and of operators and technicians will be complemented through a con-
tinuing recruitment and training scheme tailored to the specific Project
needs (see para 7.10).
B.   NFL's Fertilizer Plants and Production Performance
5.05      All three NFL plants are located northwest from Delhi in a radius
of about 225 km.   Nangal and Bhatinda are in the State of Punjab and
Panipat is in the State of Haryana.  Both States rank at the top in terms
of fertilizer consumption per hectare.  The Nangal works include a 960 tpd
CAN plant, in operation since 1961, and a Bank-financed ammonia/urea
complex with capacities of 900 tpd and 1,000 tpd, respectively.  The latter



- 28 -
started commercial production in November 1978 and supplies the downstream
CAN plant with up to 300 tpd ammonia to supplement the substantially
curtailed production from an old and uneconomic ammonia plant based on
electrolytic hydrogen, which NFL intends to phase out and to replace with a
new gasification plant in the near future.  The two fertilizer complexes at
Panipat and Bhatinda started commercial production nearly s4-iultaneously in
September and October 1979.   Although the three new plants proved to be
able to operate at levels above rated capacity, average annual capacity
utilization has suffered from extended supply interruptions of coal and
power. However, since FY1981/82 the number of lost days due to shortage of
coal and power cut-offs has declined considerably, permitting NFL to
achieve an overall annual on-stream factor of up to 73%.   A breakdown of
the capacity utilization for the individual units is given in the following
table:
NFL Annual Capacity Utilization
(in percentage terms)
NFL
Nangal          Panipat          Bhatinda        Average
1979/80            56              38                44             48
1980/81            53              29                42              42
1981/82            74              78                57             69
1982/83            79              69                65              71
1983/84a/          81              69                69             73
a/ Estimated.
5.06         During the last two years NFL's overall operating rates were
above the average for the fertilizer industry (67% and 68%, respectively,
see para 2.08). NFL estimates that its average capacity utilization would
have been higher in both years if there had not been external coal and
power constraints.   In FY83/84 the average capacity utilization continued
to improve to about 73% as a result of reduced external constraints.
Further improvements are expected after the planned installation of captive
power  plants  at Panipat  and Bhatinda will  be  completed  in  FY1986/87.
Without power constraints NFL estimates thaLt the average operating level
for the two plants will rise to between 85% and 90% of the capacity.
5.07       In all three fertilizer complexes, NFL has introduced incentive
schemes to motivate operators, technicians and supervisory personnel and to
achieve better overall performance.   Although the schemes differ slightly
from plant to plant, caused by different demands from the individual plant
unions, the concept is the same in all NFL plants.  It has two components:
one for capacity utilization and another for raw material and utility con-
sumption. Capacity utilization beyond 70% on a daily or monthly basis will
trigger incentive payments rising gradually in direct relation to the
actual achievement and the minimum requiremetnt.   Similarly for each input
certain norm consumptions are established. If consumption falls below the
defined benchmarks, bonuses are paid in proportion to the realized
savings.   Each of the two incentive components can lead to a performance
reward of up to 15% of the base salary; detailed description of NFL's



- 29 -
incentive systems is presented in Annex 5-1 (Reference B of Project File).
Following suggestions made by the Bank, the Government is currently spon-
soring a study which will review the effectiveness of operating and manage-
ment incentive systems on an industry-wide basis and make recommendations
for further improvements.
C. Historical Financial Performance and Projections
5.08         NFL's  historical financial statements are shown in Annex 9-4.
These and the financial projections without the Project are summarized
below:
NFL - Surn-nry of Financial Statements
(in Rs million, unless otherwise noted)
Year Ending March 31      1980/81   1981/82    1982/83    1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
--Audited---                             ojectedc/
Nangal: CAN (Mtpy)           205       190         246        252       255        200
Urea (Mtpy)         156        267        260        269        280       280
Panipat: Urea (Mtpy)         148       396         353        353       383        409
Bhatinda: Urea (Mtpy)        217       291        333         350       383       409
Revenues from Sales        1,559     3,197       3,066      4,008     4,150      4,812
Cost of Goods Sold         1,555     2,141       2,285      3,362     3,461      3,811
Interest QCarges (Net)       329       320         259        211       120        119
Net Profit After Tax (NPAT)  (421)     597         343        445       578        892
Int. Cash Generation a/      104     1,124        872         977     1,113      1,434
Debt Service b/              568       533        913       1,124d/     184        183
Capital ExpeMditure           38        73          50         99       367        719
Current Assets               959     1,871       2,187      2,073     2,345      2,829
Net Fixed Assets           4,680     4,226       3,746      3,313     3,145      3,322
Current Liabilities          847     1,362       1,768        977       704        858
Laig-Term Debt             2,603     1,949       1,036        972       908        660
Equity                     2,189     2,786       3,129      3,437     3,878      4,633
NPAT/Sales (%)             (27.0)     18.7        11.2       11.1      13.9       18.5
NPAT/Equity (%)            (19.2)     21.4        11.0       12.9      14.9       19.3
Current Ratio                1.1       1.4         1.2        2.1       3.3        3.3
Debt/Equity Ratio          56/44     48/52       38/62      36/64     29/71      25/75
D/S Coverage Ratio           0.7       2.9         1.2        1.9       7.0        8.8
a/  Before principal repayment.
b/  Principal repayment of long-term Loans and total interest payments.
c! Without the Project; projections with the Project are given in Chapter IX.
d/  Includes prepayment of debt.
5.09       As can be seen from the above figures NFL experienced a positive
turn-around in FY1981/82 which led to a sizeable net profit (18.7% on total
sales) and permitted NFL to eliminate all losses accrued during the
previous  start-up years.   The prime reason for this positive  development
was that NFL succeeded in improving its annual capacity utilization in all



- 30 -
three plants by reducing shut-down time substantially. The average number
of "production days lost" fell from 124 days in FY80/81 to 23 days in
FY83/84.  The latter were solely caused by interruptions in power supply.
5.10         Corresponding to the increased profitability, NFL's financial
ratios improved to levels above the standard benchmarks in industry. Most
noticeable was the rapid improvement of internal cash generation.   Since
capital expenditures were relatively modest during the last two years, most
of the internally-generated cash was used to meet the increased require-
ments of working capital (WC) and to accelerate principal loan repayments.
NFL's projections indicate that not only can it provide from its internal
resources the needed equity contribution (50% of investments) for its
regular capital expenditure program (including a nitrophosphate plant and
two captive power plants), but also about one third of the equity require-
ments for the proposed Project.
5.11       Although end-FY figures indicate relatively high WC needs, as a
result of the seasonality of fertilizer demand, and corresponding to the
equivalent of about 5 months' sales, the average WC requirements are much
lower.   During March,  fertilizer inventory levels regularly reach their
peak just before the next sowing season, thus showing a distorted static
picture.   In contrast, the average annual WC needs of NFL are quite low
ranging between equivalents of 2 and 3 months. In FY1982/83, for instance,
the average finished goods inventory amounted to the equivalent of 17 days
of production, the raw materials inventory to 44 days of consumption and
accounts  receivables  to 41  days  of  sale.    Hence,  NFL's  WC  and  cash
management practices are considered satisfactory.
5.12        The financial projections indicate a sound financial structure
for the company and show increasing profitability as a result of improved
capacity utilization and increased efficiency.
VI. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Bank Role
6.01          The main objectives of the Project are to expand domestic
nitrogenous fertilizer capacity, as well as to facilitate the rehabilita-
tion of presently underutilized existing plant capacity, in order to lessen
India's dependence on imports.   Without additional fertilizer production
facilities, future imports are bound to increase rapidly as a result of
continued growth in fertilizer consumption during the remainder of this
century. In order to reduce the burden on India's balance of payments, the
Government wishes to take advantage of the vast and newly developed
resources of natural gas which is the most economic feedstock for nitroge-
nous fertilizer production. The Project also aims at reducing the distance
of fertilizer transport to MP whose agricultural potential is currently
underutilized.   The Government expects that. easier access to fertilizer
will stimulate its consumption in MP where it is currently below average
levels.   The Project's scope and design reflect today's proven "state of
the art" and economies of scale in fertilizer production technology and
thus provide a good basis for transfer of technology. The loan allocation



- 31 -
for financing the rehabilitation study of the coal-based fertilizer plants
is an important first step in a joint effort with the Government to develop
and implement a comprehensive revamping program for the two large-scale
coal-based production facilities using highly sophisticated technology with
limited  proven  experience.    The  Bank  prepared  and  discussed  with  the
Government terms of reference defining the scope of work of the
rehabilitation study, which the GOI has agreed to carry out through FCI and
for which purpose it will make US$3 million available to FCI.
6.02       The Bank has played an important role in helping India to build
tup her fertilizer production capacity and assisting in transfer of related
technology and operating know-how of such plants.   The Bank's participa-
tion in the proposed Project is a continuation of this role. Although the
Project's design and configuration will not differ substantially from
certain components of the Thal and Hazira Projects, now nearing completion,
the earlier Indian fertilizer industry projects were often hampered by
extended delays in completion and protracted commissioning periods.
Furthermore,  past  projects  were  frequently  not  executed  in  the  most
cost-efficient manner, resulting in unnecessarily high capital and
operating costs.   By being involved in this Project,  the Bank can help
ensure cost-efficient implementation arrangements through the use of
international competitive bidding procedures, that consultants' work to
identify rehabilitation investments to improve capacity utilization in the
two coal-based plants is carried out satisfactorily, and that overall
project implementation arrangements are advantageous. Through the Project
the Bank would also be better placed to continue its dialogue with the
Government on sector policies, such as fertilizer pricing, distribution and
improvements in sectoral efficiency.
B.   Project Scope and Technology
6.03       The proposed Project is based on steam-reforming of non-associ-
ated natural gas from the off-shore South Bassein fields.   The Project
scope consists of: (a) a single-train 1,350 tpd ammonia unit; (b) two 1,100
tpd urea units;  (c)  integrated  power  and steam generation facilities,
including a gas turbine generator, exhaust heat recovery unit and two
boilers of 180 tons per hour (tph) each; (d) raw water storage and treat-
ment facilities, demineralized water plant and cooling water systems; (e)
storage for 10,000 tons of refrigerated ammonia and 50,000 tons of bulk
urea and facilities for bagging urea; (f) other related offsites, including
maintenance workshops, warehousing, administration building, laboratory,
transport facilities and effluent treatment; and (g) infrastructure,
including a township with 1,015 housing units and social facilities, road
and rail links and transmission lines for power supply from the grid
(Reference C of Project File).  The plant layout is shown in the IBRD Map
17324R. The GOI has decided to use natural gas rather than coal for steam
generation in the Project in order to reduce pollution and to improve
operating reliability.
6.04      The GOI has decided that the process design for the ammonia unit
will be based on technology offered by Haldor Topsoe A/S (Denmark) as was
the case for the Thal fertilizer project, for which the capacity and design
of each of the two ammonia units under construction will be the same as
that for the single unit to be built under the Project.   As employed for
both the Thal and Hazira fertilizer projects, the constant pressure



- 32 -
ammonia-stripping  technology  offered by Snamprogetti  of Italy  has  been
selected by the GOI for the Project's two urea units, whose capacity and
design will be similar to each of the four urea units being built under the
Hazira project.   All of these units are among the largest installed in
India and their technological processes have been used successfully for
plants of such capacity elsewhere. In view of duplication of the conser-
vative design philosophy adopted for the plants at Thal, incorporating
additional design margins in critical process areas, the ammonia plant will
have a higher level of stable average operation than is typical for such
plants.  It is therefore expected that after a production build-up period
of about two years the ammonia/urea train will reach and maintain an
average production level at 95% of daily rated capacity, equivalent to the
production of 689,700 tpy of urea and an additional reserve ammonia capaci-
ty of about 20,000 tpy.
C.   Project Location
6.05         As recommended by the studies,  initiated early in 1979, for
optimizing the utilization of West Coast offshore gas, with a forecast sus-
tained production potential of 21-27 million normal cubic meters per day
(Ncmd), the GOI decided on building six ammonia/urea complexes in addition
to the Thal and Hazira projects already under construction. Studies on the
least-cost option for meeting local fertilizer demands favored location of
one complex in MP, one in Rj and four in UP. These studies evaluated the
relative economics of inland plants located near the North and Central Zone
markets based on the gas supplied by pipeline, compared to providing
fertilizer supplies to these markets by rail and road from facilities
located close to the gas pipeline land-fall point.
6.06       A total of thirty possible locations for the six potential fer-
tilizer  complexes  were  identified.       A  GOI-appointed  Site  Selection
Committee screened these locations against environmental considerations and
availability of land and infrastructure,  and short-listed seventeen for
further  techno-economic  evaluation.    Site optimization  studies  for  the
above  locations were  then carried out along with work on defining  the
optimal gas pipeline alignment to the plants carried out by the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) and Engineers India Ltd. (EIL) under another
GOI appointed Committee. The study identified five possible trunk pipeline
routes to UP starting from the Kawas gas terminal (near Hazira).
6.07       The Committees undertook detailed  Lnvestigations for each short-
listed site covering the transportation costs of the product and inputs and
the costs of developing the offsites and infrastructure requirements.
Computerized analysis of six basic scenarios, covering (a) alternative
pipeline alignments, (b) single or twin fertilizer plants, and (c) the
seventeen potential plant sites, identified optimal pipeline configurations
and  six  fertilizer  plant  locations  offering  the  least-cost  option
(Reference D. of Project File).   The studies were completed and the joint
final report presented to the GOI at the end of 1981.  The study concluded
that the optimal solution would be to supply natural gas to single inland
plants in three States  of MP, Rj and UP.  Based on the Committee's recom-
mendations, about 1,500 acres of government-owned land at Vijaipur, about
25 km Southwest of Guna, was allocated to seat up the proposed Project in
Madhya Pradesh. The selection criteria, the analysis carried out and the
final choice of the Project site by the Committee are satisfactory.



- 33 -
6.08         Due to its sparse population and little cultivation but good
transport  communications,  the  Guna  district  in  which  the  Project  is
located, has been designated by GOI as an area suited for industrial
growth.   The Project  location and  the surrounding areas  are generally
barren and the statutory environmental clearances as required from the
State and GOI environmental departments have already been obtained.   NFL
has completed negotiations for acquiring all the necessary land for the
Project, including site access road, railway spur and township.   The area
has a relatively temperate climate with a 40-year historical average annual
rainfall of 47 inches. The site is level, free of any permanent homesteads
and open on all sides.  The soil condition is good and no problems regard-
ing plant foundations, such as need for extensive piling, are expected.
The site has a top layer of soil mixed with small rocks over basaltic rock
and then hard rock below.   It is elevated and not prone  to flooding.
Project facilities and township together will require an area of about
1,200 acres, leaving about 300 acres for use as demonstration farms.  NFL
contracted for the site survey/soils study and investigation of ground
water sources and quality with PDIL, whose report has been completed and
made available to the Bank confirming general acceptability of the site
conditions (Reference E of Project File).
D.   Gas Supply Arrangements
6.09        The main use for the Bombay High and South Bassein lean gas
(after removing ethane and LPG fractions) will be to provide the feedstock
to the existing and proposed ammonia plants, each with a peak requirement
of about 2 million Ncmd of gas as feedstock.   In the final stage and
assuming the remaining fertilizer projects are designed similarly, the peak
requirements of lean gas for fertilizer production based on the Bombay High
or South Bassein fields would amount to about 20 million Ncmd.
6.10        Since lean associated gas production from the existing Bombay
High field (at 5.0 million Ncmd) is already below the needs of existing and
potential users in the Bombay area alone, the GOI is developing the South
Bassein  field.8/   This  field  is  estimated  to have  free  gas  reserves
amounting to 260 billion Ncmd, recoverable over about 30 years, and to be
capable of maintaining a plateau production rate of 20 million Ncmd for at
least 30 years through some 24 wells.   In the first phase, a production
capacity of 5 million Ncmd of free gas will be developed from an offshore
four-platform complex.  The program for constructing these required facili-
ties at South Bassein is already well in hand, although under a tight sche-
dule, and will be ready to deliver free gas by May 1986 when the platform
complex is fully commissioned. Since gas will be required at Hazira at an
earlier date, the gas project has a provision to add up to 5 million Ncmd
of Bombay High associated gas by a tie-in to the nearby Bombay High gas
pipeline; this gas will be piped to the new Kawas terminal near Hazira
(Gujarat State) through a 36" diameter pipeline (217 km undersea and 18 km
overland),  now scheduled to be completed by December  1984.   Following
8/   Details of the field development,  its reserves, expected production
and markets for the gas are given in SAR  South Bassein Offshore Gas
Development Project No. 4097-INa.



- 34 -
identification  of  additional  offshore  gas  reserves,   the  production
potential  for free gas is now estimated at. 25-30 million Ncmd over 30
years. The facilities will be further expanded for additional future need
in phases, with three more drilling platforms (15 million Ncmd) and a
second 10 million Ncmd process platform, to deliver gas at a rate of 20
million Ncmd, which can be further increased with the addition of compres-
sion facilities at the field platform and/or at the terminal.
6.11        About 1,700 km of onshore gas pipeline will be installed from
Kawas to UP with sufficient capacity to provide feedstock to the six pro-
posed  ammonia/urea  complexes  in  the  interior,  including  the  proposed
Project (Reference F of Project File).   The Public Investment Board (PIB)
gave approval on February 16, 1984 for implementation of the onshore pipe-
line. Responsibility for implementation of the pipeline, its ownership and
future operation is vested in the newly created National Gas and Pipeline
Corporation (NGPC), a separate organization split off from ONGC, though
until NGPC becomes operative ONGC will act on its behalf.  EIL will remain
the engineering contractor for the project and has appointed Gaz Unie of
Holland as back-up consultant.  Gas supply to the Project will be effected
through a 36" diameter, 630 km section of the trunk pipeline following the
Western Railway to Devgadh Baria and from there along the National Highway
No. 3 to Vijaipur (IBRD Map 17330R).   Since the pipeline will follow the
alignment of the railway track and National Highway, problems regarding
acquisition of rights of way are not expected.  Preliminary estimates indi-
cate capital costs of about US$610 million equivalent for the pipeline
construction to the Project site.   The financing plan will be based on a
debt/equity  ratio  of  50/50.    Debt  financing will  be  provided  through
Government arrangements which could be supplemented by suppliers credits if
desirable.  ONGC had already initiated basic engineering work and believes
that the 30 months schedule is realistic for execution and commissioning of
the pipeline, so that gas supply to the Project can start in October 19865
in line with NFL's requirements for equipment testing and commissioning
(see Project Implementation Schedule in Annex 7).
6.12      Until the location and timing of the gas treatment facilities are
decided and the facilities built, the feedstock gas composition could range
between: (a) rich free gas; (b) gas after LPG extraction; and (c) lean gas
after  further  extraction  of  the  ethane/propane  fraction.    The  ammonia
plant, however, will be designed to operate at its daily rated capacity
with any or a combination of such feedstock types.   Reinjection of pre-
viously separated C02 is also being considered for better balanced conver-
sion of ammonia to urea.   NFL has been assured by ONGC that natural gas
will be supplied at the Project battery limits at a pressure not below 43
atmospheres and containing over 70 vol.% methane and below 25 vol.% other
gaseous hydrocarbons and 8 vol.% non-combustibles. The GOI has authorized
NGPC to commence execution of the pipeline project in accordance with the
implementation schedule given to the Bank and has assured the delivery of
gas in the quantity and quality required by the Project by October 1986.
Nevertheless,  since  the  schedule  for  the preconstruction  activities  is
tight, careful monitoring of the actual implementation progress during
supervision missions will be necessary. SuitaLble arrangements for monitor-
ing such progress have been made.



- 35 -
E.   Power Supply
6.13         The Project will require 16 MW of power at peak demand and
approximately 75% of this will be generated internally to avoid power
interruptions and fluctuations and thus ensure sustained plant operations
and preve-- damage  to equipment and catalysts.   For this purpose,  the
Project will include a single 16 MW power plant sufficient for operating
the process and offsites plants.   A 1.5 MW diesel-driven generator would
provide emergency power to critical equipment should the main power supply
fail.   The balance of the Project's power needs, for the less critical
facilities, will be drawn from the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board's
(MPEB) grid system through 15 km twin transmission lines to be laid between
the Project site and a newly constructed, 132 KV MPEB substation near
Guna. The Project estimates include financing of the transmission lines.
NFL has negotiated agreement with the MPEB for power supply during normal
Project operation and standby arrangements for the total requirements in
the event the captive power plant is shut down.   The MPEB has confirmed
that the grid has adequate capacity for this purpose and that the required
linkage will be provided.
6.14       The peak power needs of the Project during construction will be
about 2.5 MW, which will be drawn from an existing 33 KV MPEB line near the
site through a temporary feeder already laid and to be financed under the
Project. NFL has secured a commitment for the supply of construction and
permanent power from MPEB assuring satisfactory arrangements for the provi-
sion of adequate and timely power supply.
F.   Water Supply
6.15      The Project's water requirement would be about 60,000 Ncmd.  The
Parbati River--an important tributary to the Chambal River before it joins
the Yamuna--flows northwards at a distance of about 4 km to the West of the
Project site. During the lean rainfall period (December to June), the flow
in this river is insufficient to provide assured water supply to the
Project.  The rain-fed Chopan River, adjacent to the northern boundary of
the Project site, passes westwards to discharge into the Parbati.  The MP
Government is, therefore, constructing a dam on the Chopan River, about 15
km east of the Project site, with a rainfall catchment area in the
surrounding hills of almost 300 sq. km (Reference C. of Project File).  A
lined canal will bring the water by gravity to the site as a 20 meters head
difference is available between inlet and discharge (IBRD Map 17324R).
Surveying, design and preliminary works for the dam have already been
carried out.   The design provides for supply of 136,000 Ncmd of water to
cover the needs of possible industries in addition to the Project and for
future expansions  and for canal-balancing  tank losses.   It  includes  a
composite earth and masonry dam to create a reservoir with a live storage
capacity  of  78  million  cubic  metres.    The  facilities,  which are  not
included in the Project scope, are estimated to cost about Rs 110 million
(US$10.8 million).  Respective capital and operating costs will be charged
to the Project in the form of water charges.
6.16        The MP Government, at the request of GOI, has already started
construction work on the water supply project.   Timely completion of the
dam and the feeder canal is critical to commissioning the Project on



- 36 -
schedule.    The  MP  authorities  have,  therefore,  agreed  to  carry  out
construction at an accelerated pace so as to complete it by June 1985 (one
year earlier than initially planned) so that the reservoir can be filled
during the 1985 wet season for sufficient water to be available during
precommissioning of the Project's water treatment and steam generation
facilities. NFL has been given assurance by the State authorities that the
dam will be completed in time for the 1985 rainy season.   Furthermore,
assurance has been given that the Project will have priority of water
supply  at  all  times.    The  water  supply  requirements  during  Project
construction (about 14,000 cmd, peak) will be obtained from the Parbati
River.  NFL, has given assurance that it wiLl make satisfactory contractual
arrangements with the appropriate state agency for the provision of
adequate and timely water supply.
G.   Other Infrastructure
6.17        As suitable local housing is scarce, the Project will invest a
substantial amount (estimated at about RS 137 million or US$13.4 million
equivalent) on a new township of 1,015 single and multi-residential units
to accommodate permanent staff and their families. In addition, the town-
ship will include hostels for trainees and security staff, a school, hospi-
tal, shopping center and other welfare facilities.   Township designs need
approvals from the central Bureau of Public Enterprises and from the MP
Ministry of Environment's  Division for Town and Country Planning.   The
State proposes to set up a special area development authority to plan and
monitor overall area development.
6.18      The Project is well located with regard to transportation facili-
ties.  The site is 6 km from the Ruthiai railway station on the Guna-Maksi
(North/South) section of the Western Railway.   The Bina-Kota  (East/West)
line of the Western Railway also passes through Ruthiai.  These lines are
underutilized and planning studies of the Ministry of Railways indicate
that additional traffic into and out of the Vijaipur complex is not expec-
ted to pose any problems of overloading or availability of rolling stock.
By 1985 the capacity of the Bina-Kota line will be increased by 45% through
doubling of some of the track.  Product movements northwards via Kota will
not be restricted due to the use of double track. The Railways authorities
have agreed to link the Project site with the Guna-Maksi line which runs
adjacent to it.  The survey for the exact routing of the railway spur line
and its agreed construction schedule will be completed soon.  The Project
capital cost includes Rs 7 million (about US$0.7 million equivalent) for
the rail link. Construction of the spur is expected to take about one year
and should be completed by mid-1985 so as to be available for the first
movements of equipment and supplies required for Project construction.
6.19        The National Highway connecting Bombay and Agra is only about
4 km from the site, offering good communication links between the Central
and Northern regions of India.  A linking access road to the site is pro-
vided for within the Project scope.  In view of the dimensional and weight
limitations for rail movements, NFL expects; to bring to the site certain
heavy and large size equipment, such as the ammonia reactor, by road.  PDIL
has carried out a detailed road survey for hauling such equipment from the
ports of Bombay and Kandla to Vijaipur and the report of the survey has
been reviewed by the Bank (Reference H of Project File) and has been found



- 37 -
satisfactory.   Due to its remote location,  the Project will set up an
adequate telecommunications network for use during the execution and
operational phases. Necessary approvals have been obtained from the Posts
and Telegraph Department, based on a system designed by Telecommunications
Consultants India Ltd.
6.20         As the Project requires several major items of utilities and
infrastructure, whose timely availability is critical for Project implemen-
tation, high level inter-agency committees have been established at the
Central and State Government levels to coordinate, monitor and expedite
these activities. The GOI committee, chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of
Chemicals and Fertilizers, includes representatives from the Ministries of
Agriculture, Railways, Energy (Department of Petroleum/ONGC) and Posts &
Telegraph, the Planning Commission, NFL and the MP Government.  The State
Government committee (chaired by the Agriculture Production Commissioner)
includes representatives from the Commerce & Industry, Forest, Housing &
Environment and Irrigation Departments, the Electricity Board, NFL and the
Collector for Guna.
H.   Environmental Considerations
6.21         The Project is located at Vijaipur,  a generally barren and
sparsely populated area, and therefore will not cause any significant
detraction from the general nature of the local environment. The location
of the fertilizer complex, with any associated small/medium-sized industry
that may later develop, is expected rather to improve the living standards
of the people in the area.   Adequate pollution control measures will be
adopted by constructing effluent treatment and discharge facilities to han-
dle potential pollutants produced by the Project (Reference I of Project
File).    In addition,  NFL  proposes  to establish  within  its  Technical
Services Department at the complex a separate group of specialized staff,
equipped with appropriate laboratory facilities, to monitor pollution
abatement in conjunction with operational staff responsible for effluent
treatment. Satisfactory agreement has been obtained from NFL that it will
build and operate the Project in accordance with environmental standards
acceptable to the Bank.   NFL has also indicated that it will maintain
adequate monitoring stations and hire competent staff for environmental
protection purposes.
6.22         The Project will be designed and operated to meet rigorous
liquid effluent tolerances and limits for gaseous emissions according to
Indian Standards 2490, and 9005 9/ which are comparable to standards
applied for such facilities in industrialized countries.  The major poten-
tial pollutants from the Project are: (a) liquid effluents from the process
plants, containing ammonia and urea, and from the fresh water treatment
facilities; (b) gaseous emissions containing urea dust from the prilling
tower; and (c) solidified sludge from the waste water treatment plant.
Similar to designs adopted in the Hazira Project, the process will have
minimum ammonia and urea losses into the plants' liquid effluent streams.
After stripping to reduce the ammonia content, the process plant effluents
9/   IS 2490, Part 1 (1974, all industries) and Part IX (1977, nitrogenous
fertilizer industry); IS 9005 (1978, nitrogenous fertilizer industry).



- 38 -
will be hydrolized to decompose the urea to recover and recycle the result-
ing carbon dioxide and ammonia.  The process effluent stream and alkaline/
acidic waste waters from the water treatment plant will be sent to the
effluent treatment plant for neutralization, stripping of free ammonia,
mixing with clarified sewage and, finally, microbiological treatment. The
flow diagram summarizing the scheme is shown in Chart C-2. Sludge from the
effluent treatment plant will be collected in lagoons, dried and used for
landfill.   The treated aqueous effluent will be held in delay ponds for
regulated flow into the Parbati River (via the Chopan River), depending on
the river flow for the season, or will be used in irrigation of the
Project's demonstration farms.  Urea dust escaping from the urea prilling
tower into the atmosphere will be no more than 0.04 grams of urea per Ncm.
Flue gases from the gas reforming furnace and the gas-fired boilers will be
discharged without adverse impacts through stacks 80 m high.  A flare stack
will be provided so that no harmful gases escape to the atmosphere unburnt.
VII. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION
A.   Engineering Arrangements and Transfer of Technology
7.01        The initial strategy adopted by the GOT in connection with the
large scale, gas-based ammonia/urea fertilizer complexes currently under
construction at Hazira and Thal, has been to develop arrangements for faci-
litating the introduction and transfer of technology from foreign licensor-
/contractors through their association with Indian counterpart contractors
for engineering and construction. Although this concept is being success-
fully applied for the above projects, the process of transferring the tech-
nology concerned has not yet been completed.   It can only be considered
effective after stabilized production at performance guarantee levels has
been achieved in at least one of the projects using the newly introduced
technologies.  Thus, in selecting the license and engineering services to
be employed for the Project, NFL decided that it should continue with one
of the existing arrangements and consequently held discussions with the
Indian firms and their associated licensors involved in the Hazira and Thal
projects. After the evaluation of various factors, NFL and GOI have nego-
tiated with Topsoe/PDIL for the ammonia plant and Snamprogetti/PDIL for the
urea plants to take advantage of repeating the execution arrangements under
the Thal project.   These recommendations were officially approved by the
GOI.  They also conform with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consul-
tants which permit, in the case of repeat projects, the selection of a
qualified and experienced engineering firm without re-bidding when there is
an existing sound established relationship.
7.02         NFL has concluded similar contractual arrangements with the
various engineering firms as effected under the Thal project; that is, on a
fixed price basis for the supply of licenses, design and engineering, pro-
curement services, construction supervision and technical supervision of
commissioning for the process units, steam, power and offsite plants. The
agreement gives Topsoe full responsibility for these services as they
relate to the ammonia plant.   For the practical execution of the greater
part of its responsibilities, however, Topsoe will engage and supervise
PDIL as a sub-contractor for detailed engineering and procurement services



- 39 -
for non-critical equipment and construction supervision. Snamprogetti and
PDIL will act as a consortium for the work related to the urea plant in
view of PDIL's considerable experience on similar projects, for which the
two will enter into a tripartite agreement with NFL. In addition, NFL has
separate contracts with: (a) Snamprogetti, for the outside India provision
of license and know-how and the process design and basic engineering
package; and (b) PDIL, for detailed engineering, procurement and
supervision of construction.   In general the engineering arrangements for
both process plants are similar in that the foreign consultants will
primarily provide the technology and basic design engineering, the services
related to critical equipment and commissioning services, and also be
responsible for the engineering, procurement and construction supervision
activities  carried  out  by  the  Indian  consultants.    The  engineering
arrangements for the process plants are acceptable; both foreign firms have
satisfactory experience in the execution of projects using their respective
product technologies and have on-going experience in India, in particular
on the Thal and Hiazira projects which are proceeding satisfactorily.
7.03        In addition to the above activities of the Indian firms, the
contractual arrangements provide for PDIL to work on proprietary design,
engineering and procurement aspects in association with and responsible to
the foreign engineering firms, for the purpose of acquiring or improving
their knowledge of the technology.  The transfer of process technology in
this manner, subject to confidentiality, will be sufficient for the Indian
firm to be in a position to design under license, execute and commission
such plants of various capacities in future with minimum assistance from
the licensors.  Furthermore, to ensure optimum efficiency in project imple-
mentation, NFL has negotiated for the foreign and local consultants to
provide, as far as possible, the same key team members and design staff as
were engaged on the Thal project. This would also assure greater complete-
ness of the technology transfer process.
7.04         NFL proposes to engage a general contractor for the detailed
engineering, procurement and erection of the major offsite areas, excluding
the integrated power and steam generation facilities which will be a
packaged contract for engineering, equipment supply and erection with a
specialist  foreign firm under ICB.   Five Indian contractors have been
shortlisted to bid for the offsites contract, based on experience gained in
similar contracts and previous work for NFL. Supervision of these activi-
ties and development of the basic engineering in cooperation with the main
process plant consultants will be a major responsibility of the NFL project
management team. NFL has completed negotiations and signed contracts with
the main contractors for the ammonia and urea plants and will shortly
select the Indian contractor for the offsite facilities.
B.   Project Management and Implementation
7.05      The existing NFL organization has over 500 qualified profession-
als with experience relating to ammonia/urea production, technical
services, maintenance and project execution.   From these, NFL is in the
process of building up the project management team (PMT), which is being
structured as a task force independent from normal line management func-
tions.   It will assume exclusive responsibility for control of Project
implementation, within the stipulated time and cost, by coordinating the



- 40 -
activities of the foreign and local design and engineering consultants and
other contractors. Many PMT members have project management experience on
NFL's Nangal II, Bhatinda and Panipat projects, which now form the major
part of the Company's operations. The Nangal project was completed mechan-
ically after a period of 52 months.  PDIL was responsible for execution of
the offsites and primarily carried out the detailed engineering and
construction of the process units in collaboration with foreign consul-
tants.  NFL was responsible for implementing the ammonia/urea complexes at
Bhatinda and Panipat, which were executed to the stage of mechanical com-
pletion over periods of 50 and 40 months, respectively.   EIL carried out
full execution of the offsites and engineering, local procurement,
construction  supervision  and  commissioning  in  association  with  Toyo
Engineering Corp. of Japan, which provided the technology, foreign procure-
ment  and  construction/commissioning  assistance.    Under  NFL's  project
management, these projects were executed and brought into commercial opera-
tion effectively, despite delays at the time relating to delivery failures
by some vendors and difficulties with the infrastructure which were beyond
project management's control.
7.06         The Project implementation organization proposed is shown in
Chart C-3.   Senior technical officers have already been appointed to the
PMT for the functions of engineering, construction, administration and
preconstruction site work.   They are considered well qualified for these
key positions.  NFL has confirmed its appointment of a finance manager to
the PMT and provided information to satisfy the Bank that he has the appro-
priate  experience.    The  Project  General  Manager  will  report  to  NFL's
Managing Director and will be assisted by four senior managers responsible
for the functional activities on the Projec-t. The main responsibilities of
the Coordination and Monitoring Department will be discharged by:   (a)
project groups for coordination with the consultants during design, engi-
neering and procurement and for cost, schedule and quality supervision; (b)
a planning and monitoring section for management information systems
(including a computerized system to cover materials status, cost and sche-
dule control), manpower scheduling and incentive scheme; and (c) process
groups for design reviews and work preparatory to commissioning and opera-
tions, including training.  These groups will also liaise with the work of
the Construction Department, which will consist of sections responsible for
each major  construction area  (in  coordinating  the  activities  of  plant
contractors and sub-contractors for the craft functions) and for inspec-
tion, utility supplies and advance planning for spares, maintenance, tools
and materials.   The Administration Department will handle equipment and
materials transportation, receipt and storage management as well as the
normal administrative procedures regarding industrial relations, recruit-
ment and outside contacts, etc.   Budgeting, control of expenditures and
overall financial discipline with regard to handling of funds will be exer-
cised by the Finance Department  under the  financial  manager.   NFL, has
developed  a  detailed  and  satisfactory  Project  Implementation  Manual
(Reference J of Project File), which has been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory.
7.07        The PMT, which is planned to reach a peak number of about 140
staff including 65 professionals, has taken over responsibility for the
Project from NFL's Technical Division after receipt of approval to proceed
by the PIB.  Initially, the PMT is operating from Delhi during the design,



- 41 -
engineering and procurement stages, and some staff will work in the consul-
tants' offices abroad on engineering and procurement of critical items.
However, a senior civil engineer and other staff have already been posted
at site for land development, preparation of construction facilities, such
as temporary storages, offices, services and infrastructure, and for plan-
ning and implementation of the first phase of the township.  This level of
site activity should last about one year from the Projecc zero date until
buildup of the construction department and its movement to site to take
charge prior to commencement of construction work.  The center of activity
will shift to site when construction and erection is underway and, after
procurement has been substantially completed, all PMT staff will be
relocated to manage the Project from site, with the assistance of assigned
production and maintenance staff for pre-operational activities and commis-
sioning of the Project facilities.
C.   Project Schedule
7.08       NFL's overall schedule of 42 months for execution is based on a
period of 37 months from the zero date of April 1, 1984 to mechanical
completion of the process plants and associated offsite facilities by May
1, 1987.   Commissioning and plant stabilization would take a further 5
months to the start of commercial operation on October 1, 1987.   A bar
chart schedule indicating the timeframe for the major implementation acti-
vities is given in Annex 7. NFL's project schedule appears to be ambitious
but is achievable, bearing in mind that the Project will benefit from the
experience of similar projects like Thal and Hazira.   In the light of the
implementation delays experienced by the latter projects (between 6 and 8
months), it is, however, prudent to assume a more conservative 48 months
schedule for financial and economic analysis of the Project, assuming 45
months to mechanical completion, followed by 3 months of commissioning to
the start of commercial operation on April 1. 1988.  This schedule takes
into account the risks of delay associated with constructing complex and
large scale plants at a remote and little developed location distant from
major sea ports and NFL's past performance in bringing plants into
commercial operation.
D.   Operational Manpower and Training
7.09        Staffing requirements of the new fertilizer complex as proposed
by NFL will total 1,015 personnel at the factory level, consisting of 59 at
assistant manager level and above, 158 at junior managerial levels, 461
operating and maintenance technicians, 185 clerical and other, 117 helpers
and 35 medical.   This number appears on the high side compared to other
similar gas-based fertilizer projects in which the Bank has been involved.
However, the staffing plan is based on NFL's experience at its Bhatinda and
Panipat plants and includes about 270 extra personnel needed due to the
project scope and special infrastructure requirements covering captive
power plant (25), total maintenance capability without recourse to outside
services (150), and township administration and operation of a 50-bed hos-
pital (95).
7.10      Including the senior key positions to be filled by its staff, NFL
proposes to assign to the Project from its existing organization experi-
enced staff numbering about 150 for junior and middle management positions



- 42 -
and about 100 key operators and maintenance technicians.   The balance of
the skilled permanent staff will be recruited at two levels, namely: (a)
skilled manpower for the operating and maintenance level and for adminis-
trative functions after induction training; and (b) graduates with profes-
sional qualifications as potential middle and higher level managers who
will go through 18 months training in management and functional skills and
techniques.   NFL has existing in-house training schemes for such freshly
recruited staff, and plans to recruit in batches over the period 1985 to
1987 so that adequate numbers of trained personnel at various job levels
are available at Project commissioning. The training program is considered
satisfactory.
VIII. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Capital Cost
8.01         The total financing required for the Project,  including the
rehabilitation study for FCI's coal-based plants and the front-end fee on
the Bank loan is estimated at US$638.6 million equivalent (Rs 6,514
million). The estimate includes provisions for physical contingencies and
price escalation, working capital and interest during construction. Also
included are the infrastructure investments for the township, the rail spur
to the national railway system, access road, power supply linkage to the
MPEB grid and facilities for construction water and power supplies; but
excludes the cost of development of the Chopan River dam and connecting
canal (US$10.8 million) and the cost of the natural gas pipeline to the
Project site.  Capital and operating costs related to the provision of gas
will be reflected in the price of gas to be paid by the Project.  A total
of about US$294.6 million equivalent are foreign exchange requirements.
The detailed capital cost breakdown by Project component is given in Annex
8-1 and summarized on the following page:



- 43 -
MP Project - Capital Cost Estimate
Rs Million             US$ Millim a/
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    %
Equipffent, Materials and Spares     528    1,772   2,300     51.8  173.7  225.5   46.8
Freight, Handling and Insurance       90      174    264       8.8   17.1   25.9    5.4
Daties and Taxes                     846        -     846    82.9      -      82.9   17.2
Subtotal                         1,464    1,946   3,410    143.5  190.8  334.3   69.4
License and Engineering Services b/   132     136    268      13.0   13.3   26.3    5.5
Project Managenent and Insurance     116        6     122     11.4    0.6   12.0    2.5
land and Site DevelopEnt              89        -      89      8.7     -       8.7     1.8
Civil Works and Buildings            337       20    357    33.0    2.0   35.0    7.3
Erection and Conxuissioning          392      116    508    38.4   11.4   49.8   10.3
Ta7nrship                            114        8     122    11.2    0.8   12.0    2.5
Infrastructure                        34        3      37      3.3    0.3    3.6    0.7
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)         2,678    2,235   4,913    262.5  219.2  481.7  100.0
Physical Contingency (5% of BCE)     134      112    246      13.1   11.0   24.1
Price Escalation c/                  237      150    387    23.3   14.7   38.0
Total Installed Cost             3,049    2,497   5,546    298.9  244.9  543.8
Working Capital                      313       10    323    30.6    1.0   31.6
Total Project Cost                 3,362    2,507   5,869    329.5  245.9  575.4
Interest During Construction         142      466    608      14.0   45.6   59.6
Front End Fee                          -        6       6       -      0.6    0.6
Project Financing Required       3,504    2,979   6,483   343.5  292.1d/ 635.6
PCI Rehabilitation Study D/            5       26      31      0.5    2.5    3.00
Overall Financing Required         3,509    3,005   6,514    344.0  294.6  638.6
a/ US$1 = RS 10.2
Tn Te average cost of consulting services is estimated at US$12,000 per nmn-nnth for
foreign consultants and US$1,600 per nmn-manth for local consultants, including per
diem, travel and otber reiibursable costs.
c/  6.4% of base cost estimate plus physical contingency for local currency expenditure and
8.5% for foreign currency.
d/ Includes US$37.8 million of indirect foreign exchange.
8.02         The base cost estimate was prepared in April 1984 prices on the
following basis:   (i) the ammonia plant costs are based on the definitive
estimate of costs for the duplicate units at Thal, due for completion this
year, (ii) updated information from the Hazira project, also near comple-
tion, is reflected in the costs of the urea plants and other facilities,
(iii) Vijaipur site-related costs are well defined as a result of completed
land and infrastructure surveys; and (iv) the consultants fees for



- 44 -
engineering  and  construction  services  have  been  negotiated.   For  each
process and offsite area, the component costs for equipment categories,
bulk materials and construction services were suitably adjusted by NFL for
price level changes to the zero date and any differences in scale or scope
(Reference K of Project File).   The degree of definition for equipment,
materials and services, the design similarities and the detail and accuracy
of the cost information available make the Thal and Hazira facilities
reliable bases from which to develop the Project costs. The relatively low
allowance of 5% of the base cost estimate for physical contingency reflects
the above position and is, in this instance, considered appropriate.
8.03        The estimate assumes annual price escalation of 3.3% for 1984,
8.0%  for  1985,  and  9.0%  for  1986  and  thereafter  for  foreign currency
expenditures.  Price escalation used for local items are 7.0% p.a. through
1986 and 6.0% p.a. thereafter.   The overall price contingency allowances
are estimated to be relatively small, due to:   (i) known fixed fees and
rates for the consultants' services already contracted; and (ii) early
commitments on procurement of supplies.
B. Financing P:Lan
8.04      Based on the above capital cost estimate a preliminary financing
plan for the Project was drawn-up which is shown in the following table:
MP Project - Financing Plan
(Millions)
US Dollars a/----    Rupees
Source                        Local   Foreign  Total       Total      %
Equity
GOI                               207.4       -       207.4    2,115    32.6
Internal NFL Resources            100.5      _       100.5    1,025    15.8
Total Equity                  307.9       -      307.9    3,140    48.4
Debt
World Bank                          -       200.0    200.0    2,040    31.5
OECFb/                              -        63.0      63.0      643      9.9
Denmark                             -         9.0       9.0       92      1.4
Italy                               -         4.0       4.0       41      0.7
GOI                                15.0      15.5     30.5       311      4.8
Total Long-term Debt           15.0    291.5    306.5    3,127    48.3
Short-term Debt                    20.6       -       20.6       210      3.3
Total NFL Financing Required         343.5    291.5    635.0    6,477   100.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loanc/                  0.6       0.6         6      -
FCI Study (Bank financed)           0.5       2.5       3.0       31       _
Overall Financing Required           344.0    294.6    638.6    6,514
-~~~-                              =
a/ US$1 = Rs 10.2.
b/ US$1 = Y238.
El Borne by GOI.



- 45 -
8.05        Of the required equity funds of US$308 million equivalent, the
Government has given assurance that it will provide US$207.4 million (Rs
2,115 million) in the form of share capital increase.  NFL will contribute
about US$101 million equivalent to the Project through internal cash
generation from its on-going operations at Nangal, Panipat and Bhatinda.
The debt financing totalling US$307 million equivalent wil be obtained
from five different sources.  US$200 million of the proposed Bank loan of
US$203.6 will be onlent to NFL to cover 31.5% of NFL's financing
requirements and 69% of the respective foreign exchange costs; the balance
of US$3.0 million of the Bank loan will be passed on to FCI for the
financing of the rehabilitation study of its two coal-based fertilizer
plants. The Bank loan will be made directly to the Government on repayment
terms of 20 years maturity including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard interest terms.   The Government will bear che foreign exchange
risk and the front-end fee on the Bank Loan, and relend the proceeds to NFL
at an effective annual interest rate of not less t-han 12.75% with an
average maturity of 15 years including five years of average grace period
which are the standard terms and conditions for long-term Government
lending to industrial and commercial enterprises in the public sector. The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and NFL
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
8.06         Most of the remaining long-term borrowing of US$107 million
equivalent will be provided through three cofinancing operations totalling
US$76 million equivalent and relent to NFL under terms and conditions which
are in line with the relent Bank funds described above.   The Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan has agreed to lend the GOI US$63
million equivalent  for specific equipment  items.   Bilateral funds from
Denmark and Italy will be used to finance most of the license and engineer-
ing services:    US$9 million equivalent  for the ammonia plant  from the
Danish Government, and US$4 million equivalent for the urea plant from the
Italian Government. The balance of US$31 million equivalent covering local
and indirect foreign exchange requirements will be provided from Government
resources. In addition, the financing plan foresees raising of about US$21
million equivalent in short term financing from commercial banks to cover
approximately 65% of the initial working capital requirements.
8.07         Assurance has been obtained from the Government that it will
promptly provide NFL with any additional funds required to cover a short-
fall in the financing plan due to unexpected cost increases, on terms
satisfactory to the Bank.   In the event that loan repayment becomes due
before NFL will be in a position to generate sufficien. cash flow, due to
outside constraints affecting its overall operating performances, agreement
has been reached with the Government to arrange bridge financing for prin-
cipal repayments. Furthermore, the Government gave assurance to take all
necessary steps required to ensure that all funds, including foreign
exchange, are available on time and that approval for necessary import
permits will be given promptly to allow completion of the Project and to
bring it to full production in accordance with the implementation schedule.
C.   Procurement and Disbursement
8.08         Equipment financed by the Bank loan will mostly be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) and other procedures



- 46 -
consistent  with  Bank guidelines.   Equipment proprietary  to the process
design will  be procurred  from  specialist  suppliers.    Items  which  are
critical for efficient project execution and operation, and small items
under contracts each with estimated value oE not more than US$200,000 may
be procured through limited international tendering from qualified
suppliers  from  at  least  three  Bank  member  countries,  Switzerland  and
Taiwan.   The aggregate of contracts under the Bank loan to be procured
under the above special procedures will not exceed US$20 million equivalent
or  10% of  the Bank Loan.   For  purposes  of bid evaluation under  ICB,
qualified local suppliers will receive a margin of preference of 15% or the
applicable duty, whichever is lower.  The Bank loan will also be used to
finance foreign costs of design and construction technical services for
NFL.   Equity contribution,  GOI  loan and funds  from bilateral  financing
arrangements will be used to cover the cost of engineering and erection
services,  civil  works,  township  and  equipment  not  financed  with  the
proceeds  of  the  Bank  loan,  following  appropriate  competitive  bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.   NFL has developed a list of critical
equipment and long delivery items and reviewed with the Bank.
8.09      The Bank loan will finance local supplies won by Indian suppliers
under ICB. Indian manufacturers are expected to supply about one third of
equipment procured under ICB.  For local items not financed by the Bank and
totalling about US$28 million only local suppliers are expected to be
tendered under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is summarized below:
Allocation of Bank Loan
US$ Million
Equivalent             Disbursement
Equipment, Materials                      169.0              100% of foreign
and Spare Parts                                              expenditures (CIF)
and 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory).
Technical Services for NFL                 11.0              100%.
FCI Rehabilitation Study                    3.0              100%
Front-End Fee                               0.5
Unallocated                                20.1
Total                          203.6
8.10       Of the US$200 million financing for the Project under the Bank
loan (excluding the front-end fee and financing for the FCI rehabilitation
study), supplies of equipment and materials at an approximate value of
US$176 million, and erection services of about US$7 million will be
procured under ICB procedures.   In addition,  it is recommended that the
Bank should finance US$6 million for procurement of proprietary items and
US$11 million for engineering, construction and commission services from
various licensors and vendors under LIB procedures. NFL intends to procure
items to the value of about US$63 million through selective procurement
under a loan by OECF of Japan, and process licenses and engineering
services from the foreign consultants under bilateral financing from Danish



- 47 -
and  Italian  sources,  to  the  value  of  US$9  million  and  US$4 million,
respectively. Equipment items totalling about US$28 million and not being
financed by the Bank are not expected to attract bids from foreign suppli-
ers due either to the relative small order size or to the large construc-
tion/erection components  involved.   Similarly,  erection and civil works
contracts Pre not likely to attract interest from international bidders, as
has been seen in the case of Hazira and other fertilizer projects in India,
since the individual contracts are unlikely to exceed an equivalent of US$6
million.   The likely allocation of procurement categories to be followed
during project execution is given below:
MP Project - Financing Sources and Procurement Method
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Bank Funding a/      Otber Sources       Total Project
ICB LIB    OECF Demark Italy LCB N.A.   Finarxing
Equipment and Materials   176  6       63     -     -   28            273
License and Eng.Services   -   5       -      6     3   14  -          28
Proj. Management & Insurance  -   -    -      -     -   14  -          14
Erection & Supervision     7   5       -      2     1   29             44
Ccmnissioning Expenses     -   1       -      1     -   13  -          15
Land & Devel., Civil Works    -   -    -      -     -   50  -          50
Township & Infrastructure  -   -       -      -     -   17  -          17
Local Handling             -   -       -      -     -   10  -          10
Duties and Taxes          -   -        -      -     -    -  93         93
IDC and Working Capital    -   -       -      -     -    -  91         9i
Total             183D/ 17      63     9     4  175 184        635
a/ Excluding front-end fee.
b/ Includes US$3 million for small items.
8.11         To enable the Project to be implemented as scheduled,  it is
recommended that the Bank loan retroactively finance up to US$5 million of
eligible expenditures for engineering services and advance payments for
procurement of long delivery items incurred after January 1, 1984.   Such
retroactive financing is required to proceed with the necessary preparatory
work to avoid delays in Project execution. It is anticipated that the Bank
loan will be completely disbursed by June 30, 1989 in accordance with the
disbursement schedule set forth in Annex 8-2.   The schedule corresponds
closely to the disbursement profile of Bank-financed fertilizer and chemi-
cal industry projects,  including those in India.   The second and third
years show a relatively minor acceleration of disbursement due to the high
proportion of early-delivery items and advanced ordering expected to be
financed from the Bank loan.
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Revenues and Operating Costs
9.01         Key assumptions used in the financial analysis are given in
Annex 9-1. It is assumed that the MP plant will start commercial



- 48 -
production in April 1988, 48 months after the zero date of April 1, 1984.
The ammonia/urea complex is assumed to operate at 65% capacity utilization
in the first 12 months of operation, 80% in the second operating year, and
95% thereafter.   At 95% capacity utilization,  the Project will produce
689,700 tpy of urea, and 19,800 tpy of excess ammonia.
9.02      For the financial analysis, urea ex-factory prices have been cal-
culated according to the price formula established by the Government under
the current fertilizer pricing policy (para 2.18). The price formula sets
the urea ex-factory price--i.e., "retention" price--at a level needed to
enable producers, operating efficiently at 80% capacity, to generate suffi-
cient cash to cover operating costs and financial clharges and to obtain a
12% after tax return on "equity employed" (Annex 9-2). Under the formula,
equity employed in the line of business is defined for a moving 3-year
pricing period as share capital plus retained earnings, minus capital
employed outside the company's line of business and accumulated surplus
cash.   However,  deductions are only made to an extent at which "equity
employed" does not fall below the level of paid-in share capital which
constitutes  an effective  floor  level.   This  feature was  introduced  to
provide sufficient incentive to a company to reinvest the retained earnings
in its dedicated line of business. Since an individual project is normally
evaluated on its own merits and is not linked to any additional reinvest-
ment schemes, it is assumed in this report that the calculation for the
retention price is based on an amount of "'equity employed" equal to the
share capital.   Therefore, variation in the retention price is the direct
result of changes in costs of inputs.  The implication o' tnis mechanism--
which allows only a fixed level of return on capital--is that the retention
price increases at a slower rate than the overall inflation rate and hence
will decrease in constant terms.   The approved retention price will not
change due to variations in actually-achieved capacity utili7ation rates or
consumption  ratios  for inputs.   Therefore,  performance  involving  lower
on-stream factors than 80% and consumption ratios higher than the pre-
established norms will result in lower profitability and vice versa.  In
other words, management's operating performance is fully reflecced in the
company's profitability. A summary of the calculated urea retention prices
for the Project in different years starting with 1990/91, the first year of
full capacity utilization, is given in the table below:
MP Project - Retention Prices per ton of Urea
Average for
Project
1990/91      1995/96     1999/2000         Life
In current terms
Rupees                 5,639        6,371         7,153
US dollars               553          625           701          -
In constant terms 1984
Rupees                 3,682        3,107         2,763        3,182
US dollars               361          305           271          312
Economic Price in
Constant 1984 US dollars   346           373            395         362



- 49 -
9.03        The Project is expected to reach full capacity utilization in
1990/91. The figures in the above table indicate a retention price during
early operating years which is higher than the economic price of the
product (based on imports).   However, in order to draw a sensible conclu-
sion one has to keep in mind that the mechanism of the retention price for-
mula is designed in such a way that fertilizer prices will peak in real
terms at the commencement of operations and will gracually decline over the
Project's life.  The reason is that the parameters of the retention price
formula are determined by operating costs of individual plants in which
depreciation is a major cost item, which declines in real terms over time.
Therefore, at a given moment of time, the newer plants tend to have higher
retention prices, whereas the older plants will have lower prices.  If the
plants are internationally efficient, however, and the mix of old and new
plants is even, the average retention price for all plants should be close
to the economic price which is indeed the case as discussed in para 2.22.
With increases in capital costs and depleting resources for feedstock, the
international equilibrium price of urea is expected to rise above the esti-
mated retention price during the early 1990s. A more indicative picture is
derived by comparing the average retention price during the Project's life
with the average projected economic price which reveals that the latter is
about 16% above the Project's average retention price.
9.04         Nevertheless,  even in comparison with Hazira 10/ the initial
retention price of the MP Project appears to be high;  alout 30% above
Hlazira's.    The  high  retention  price  is primarily  the  result  of  four
reasons, each of about equal relevance:   (a) increased capital cost per
unit of output (17%); (b) increased price for natural gas (34%); (c) higher
operating cost of gas-based boilers (140%); and (d) a financing plan based
on a debt/equity ratio of 50:50 requiring a higher amount to cover the
return on capital component in the retention price  formula.   In India
natural gas for feedstock is currently priced on naphtha equivalent basis
resulting in US$4.70 per million BTU which is about 13% higher than the
assumed economic opportunity value based on the fuel-oil equivalent (see
para 10.04).   The depreciation per ton of urea is higher.   Although the
capital costs for auxiliaries and offsite facilities are essentially the
same as in Hazira, they are spread over a smaller number of output units.
While the Project's gas-based boilers permit savings in capital expendi-
tures against the coal-operated steam generators originally assumed in
Hazira, their operating costs are higher as a result of the higher gas
price expressed in calorific equivalents. However, the advantages of gas-
fired boilers in terms of reliability of supply and environmental consider-
ations are of such magnitude that they clearly outweigh the additional
financial costs involved.
9.05        The production costs of urea are given in Annex 9-3 and sum-
marized on the following page:
10/ For Hazira the initial retention price was estimated at Rs 3,657 per
ton of urea for 1985 in 1981 constant rupees.



- 50 -
MP Project - Operating Cost Summary
At 95% Capacity UtLlization
(Costs per ton of product in April 1984 price)
Ammonia                         Urea
Rs         US$       %       Rs           US$
Natural Gas Feedstock    1,612.4   158.1   62.5             -         -       -
Natural Gas--Boiler           49.9      4.9    1.9        295.6      29.0   12.1
Power                         14.7      1.4    0.6         16.5       1.6    0.7
Chemicals                     92.3      9.1    3.6         12.2       1,2   0O5
Intermediate Ammoniaa/         -        -      -        1,509.4    148.0   61.9
Bags                           -        -      -          120.1      11.8    4.9
Labor                         21.3      2.1    0.8         23,2       2.3    1.0
Repairs and Maintenance    130.0    12.7    5.0            40.6       4.0    1.7
GSA Expenses                  85.1      8.3    3.3         95.7       9.4    3.9
Depreciation                 574.4    56.3   22.3         324.6      31.8   13.3
Total           2,580.1   252.9  100.0       2,437.9    239.1  100,0
a/  One tori of urea requires 0.585 ton of ammonia.
Natural gas as feedstock and for steam generation constitutes the major
costs of inputs (88%). The price for natural gas for feedstock of Rs 1,652
per thousand Ncm (or US$4.70 per million EBTU) is based on the local price
of naphtha and its calorific value in line with ONGC's established pricing
formula for natural gas.  The price for natural gas for boiler of Rs 1,292
per thousand Ncm is based on the local price of fuel oil.  All other input
prices have been estimated on NFL's operating experience in its existing
plants. All input prices have been expressed in current terms escalated in
accordance with estimated local inflation rates.   Depreciation has been
computed on a straight-line method, assuming a project economic life of 12
years.
B.   Financial Projections for the Project
9.06       Detailed financial projections for the Project in current Rupees
are given in Annex 9-4 and summarized on thes following page:



- 51 -
MP Project - Financial Projections
(in current Rs million)
Year Ending March 31                 1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1995/%
Capacity Utiliz. (%) a/              65.0     80.0     95.0       95.0 b/
Revenues from Sales                  2,587    3,268    3,989     4,508
Cost of Goods Sold                   1,624    1,922    2,253     2,952
SeLling & Aimin. Expenses              35       37       39         52
Interest Charges b/                   424      416      388        222
Profit Before TaxJ                    504      893    1,309      1,282
Incowe Tax                              -       48      416        556
Net Profit After Tax                  504      845      893        726
Internal Cash Generation c/          1,397    1,730    1,750     1,417
Debt Service d/                       424      437      523        516
Net Profit After Tax/Sales (%)        19.5    25.9    22.4        16.1
Net Profit After Tax/Share Capital (%)   16.1    26.9    28.4     23.1
Current Ratio                         2.3      2.6      2.1        1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                   47/53    43/57    38/62      16/84
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           3.5      4.1      3.3        2.7
a/  Based on FY, relates to a design capacity of 726,000 tpy.
b/  Interest rates are based on a local rate of 12.75%.
c/  Before Debt Service.
d/  Principal repayment and interest on long term loans.
The Project shows a satisfactory financial performance as demonstrated by
the favorable key indicators in the table above.   During the first three
years, when production build-up takes place, sales revenues increase
rapidly.   In the following years, rising revenues reflect only the impact
on the retention price formula of increases in operating cost due to
expected inflation. Profits before tax are projected from the first year
and are expected to rise to a level ranging between Rs 1.2 billion and Rs
1.3 billion from the third operating year onward when capacity utilization
is expected to reach 95%.   While the pretax profit level plateaus  from
1990/91 onwards, after tax profits decline gradually as the tax burden
becomes heavier over the course of the Project's life with the expiration
of tax incentives.   The Project's  eligibility for substantial tax saving
schemes during initial operating years enhances further the Project's
ability  to  generate  internal  cash  flows.    Part  of  these  internally
generated funds would be to repay short-term loans financing working
capital requirements. All three key ratios, current, debt/equity and debt
service coverage, are at satisfactory levels throughout the Project's life.
C.   Consolidated Financial Projections of NFL
9.07       The detailed financial projections for the Company consolidated
with the Project are shown in Annex 9-5 and are summarized on the following
page:



- 52 -
NFL - Consolidated FinanciaLl Projections
(in current Rs million)
Year Ending March 31                1984/85     1986/87      1988/89     1990/91
Urea (Mtpy)                          1,046       1,072        1,620       1,795
CAN (Mtpy)                            255          184          136        136
Revenues from Sales                  4,150       4,978        8,283      10,216
Cost of Goods Sold                   3,211       3,752        6,198       6,954
Selling and Admin. Expenses           250          292          315        366
Interest Charges                      120          114          537        480
Incoae Tax                              -            -          400        866
Net Profit After Tax                  578          830          844       1,562
Internal Cash Generation a/          1,233       1,488        2,565       2,740
Debt Service b/                       184          362          785        640
Capital ExpenlUiture                  817        3,364          190         30
Equity                               3,920       7,859        9,357      11,489
Net Profit After Tax/Sales t%)        13.9        16.7         10.2       15.3
Net Profit After Tax/Share Capital (%)   16.2     15.7         14.3       26.5
Current Ratio                         3.1          3.3          3.8        3.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                    23/77       26/74        26/74       21/79
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           7.4          4.3          3.5        4.5
a/ Before Debt Service.
b/ Principal repayinnt and interest of L/T Loans.
The figures in the table above indicate a satisfactory projected financial
performance and a sound capital structure for NFL.   It is projected that
NFL's consolidated operations will generate healthy net profit after taxes
which are reflected in satisfactory return on share capital. Tax incentive
schemes provide a stabilizing factor allowing substantial tax reductions
during the implementation and early operating phase of capital intensive
projects. Since new capital expenditures beyond FY1987/88 were assumed at
a marginal level, tax deductions become more limited while tax liabilities
increase progressively.   NFL's good capacity for internal cash generation
provides it with the option to finance substantial portions of its future
investment program internally or alternatively accelerating its debt repay-
ment schedule. It is expected that NFL's financial ratios will continue to
be satisfactory.
D.   Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Sensitivity Analysis
9.08         On the basis of the above assumptions,  the financial rate of
return for the Project in constant terms is estimated at 16.6% before taxes
and 13.0% after taxes for the base case which is satisfactory and consis-
tent with the policy underlying  the retention price formula.   The cost/
benefit streams for the base case are given in Annex 9-6, and the results
of the sensitivity analysis are summarized on the following page:



- 53 -
MP Project - Sensitivity Tests on Financial Rates of Return
FRR After        FRR Before
Case                                            Taxes (%)        Taxes (%)
Base Case                                         13.0               16.6
Capital Cost Up 10%                               12.6               16.2
Production Costs Up 10%                           13.0               16.6
Capacity Utilization Up 5%                        14.7               18.3
Capacity Utilization Down 10%                     10.1               13.3
One-year Delay in Project Completion              11.5               15.0
The above sensitivities confirm the rationale of the retention price
formula, i.e., to provide an adequate return on capital employed provided
the Project operates efficiently. Consequently, the "roject's FRR is fair-
ly sensitive to variations of capacity utilization and project completion
schedule which fall under the full responsibility of the Project's execut-
ing agency, whereas price increases of capital goods and operating inputs
are assumed to be largely beyond the control of the Project sponsor and are
therefore reimbursed through the pricing formula. Therefore, the FRR shows
little elasticity in regard to changes in capital and production costs. In
other words, as long as the Project is implemented on time and operated
efficiently, its financial viability is ensured and protected against input
cost variations, assuming the basic concept of the retention price formula
will be retained in future.   During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would not take or cause to be taken any actions which
would prevent the fertilizer manufacturers operating efficiently from
covering all their expenses, servicing their debt and earning a reasonable
return on invested capital.
E.   Financial Covenants and Reporting Requirements
9.09      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
and NFL that adequate funds will be provided to complete the Project,
including any capital cost overruns that may develop, and that the Project
will be implemented and operated as a separate Project entity in the form
of a "profit center" for which separate financial statements will be
prepared. Agreement has been obtained from NFL that it will follow prudent
financial practices, and maintain at all times:   (a) a long-term debt to
equity ratio of 60:40 or better; (b) a current ratio of at least 1.2; (c) a
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3.  Furthermore, NFL has agreed
not to declare any dividends, or prepay any debt, if as a result thereof
its current ratio would fall below 1.4.
9.10      In addition, NFL will submit (a) annual audited financial reports
within nine months of ending of its fiscal year; and (b) monthly progress
reports and periodic financial statements in time and format satisfactory
to the Bank. In addition, FCI will maintain separate accounts of expendi-
tures related to the implementation of the rehabilitation study.



- 54 -
F.   Major Risks
9.11        The Project does not face any major technical risk which could
seriously jeopardize its viability since the technology associated with the
Project is commercially proven and will be supplied by internationally
experienced  firms.   In addition,  NFL has  successfully  implemented  and
operated large-scale ammonia/urea complexes and has recognized the opportu-
nity of benefiting from "lessons learned" at the Thal project currently at
an advanced stage of successful implementation. Nevertheless, in light of
India's past fertilizer sector performance and in view of the Project being
a "green-field plant" at an inland location, the proposed Project still
faces some potential risks concerning:   (a) delays in implementation of
infrastructure facilities; (b) problems during start-up and commissioning
phase; and (c) difficulties in stabilizing production at high operating
levels.
9.12       The timely completion of the following infrastructure facilities
is critical for on-schedule start-up and cormmissioning operations: (a) gas
pipeline to the Project site; (b) water reservoir and canal; and (c) rail
link for transport of heavy equipment as well as dispatch of urea produc-
tion. In order to reduce these risks to satisfactory levels an infrastruc-
ture coordinating committee has been formed, both at the Central and State
Government  levels.   Suitable supply arrangements  concerning water, power
and rail transport, in line with the Project schedule and requirements,
were furnished to the Bank.   In regard to gas supply, the Government has
approved the gas pipeline project, made budgetary provisions in the current
FY and has made suitable arrangements to execute the pipeline in a manner
that will not delay the start-up of the Project.   Risks of delays in the
initial implementation stage often encountered by other projects are
reduced to an acceptable level by well advanced preparations during the
pre-investment phase which started about six months before the Project's
zero date of April 1984.
9.13        Risks regarding possible delays in plant commissioning and in
reaching target capacity utilization rates could involve two different
aspects: (a) technical problems; and (b) managerial inabilities to quickly
overcome technical and logistical difficulties faced during the engineer-
ing,  construction,  erection  and  commissioning  phases.    As  mentioned
earlier, NFL has the advantage of having a pool of sufficiently experienced
managers in the field of project construction and management as well as
plant operations who have already been assigned to the Project Management
Team with full responsibility for the job (para 7.05-7.07).   The process
plants for ammonia and urea are of similar design to those of the Thal
project. They will not only be constructed and erected by the same compa-
nies  and  under similar terms  of contract,  but essentially by the same
consultant teams which were involved in Thal, which is nearing completion.
So far, Thal has experienced relatively minor delays and is expected to be
commissioned in the second half of 1984.
9.14      Against the background of public sector experience in the Indian
fertilizer industry, there are certain limited risks concerning timely
Project execution and rapid production build-up. Considering, however, the
specific circumstances of the Project and NFL's project management capabi-
lities, as well as various assurances already given, the risks associated
with the Project are considered acceptable.



- 55 -
X. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Economic Costs and Benefits
10.01     The assumptions used in the economic analysis of the Project are
described  in Annex  10-1.   In summary,  economic costs and benefits  for
internationally tradeable items such as urea are valued at international
prices estimated to prevail during the economic life of the Project.  For
other items, domestic prices have been used after applying a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 being used for all projects in India.
10.02      The economic capital cost of the Project was obtained by deflat-
ing the current price estimate for the financial capital cost to constant
April 1984 levels using appropriate currency deflation factors, and after
deducting import duties and local taxes on equipment and other items.
Since the MIP Project is a green-field plant, its capital cost includes the
cost of required infrastructure, such as a township, feeder roads and rail-
road sidings.   For the purpose of the economic analysis,  the cost of a
captive water supply reservoir and canal was added.
10.03       For calculating economic benefits,  the future price of bagged
urea is assumed to increase from the 1983/84 level of US$148/ton FOB
Europe to US$216/ton in 1988/89, US$ 260/ton in 1990/91 and US$277/ton in
1999/2000  (all  in April  1984  US$) 1/.   These  prices  reflect  expected
future increases in energy costs as well as a more balanced world demand
and supply situation for urea in the 1990s.   Including  sea freight to
India, unloading, port handling and storage charges and inland freight from
Bombay to the Project site, the economic ex-factory price of bagged urea is
calculated at US$300/ton for 1988/89, rising to US$346/ton by 1990/91 and
US$395 by 1999/2000.
10.04      The economic price of natural gas is assumed to be equivalent to
the cost of substituting gas for imported fuel oil in steam generation and
has thus been calculated at the calorific value equivalent of fuel oil
price.   On the basis of a 1984 fuel oil price (CIF) Bombay of US$160/ton
(equivalent to US$4.06 per million BTU), adjusted for real term interna-
tional energy price increases and also into taking account the projected
ratios between the prices of fuel oil and crude oil (as estimated by the
Bank on the basis of world petroleum products demand and supply forecasts),
the economic price of natural gas in 1988/89 is calculated at US$145 per
thousand Ncm, at plant site.  The economic price of natural gas is assumed
to reach US$152 per thousand Ncm by 1990/91, US$204 by 1995/96 and US$237
by 1999/2000.  All other non-tradeable items are valued at their respective
domestic prices, after eliminating local taxes, and applying the SCF.
11/  The  current   level  of  US$148/ton   reflects   an  abnormally   low
international price resulting from a temporary oversupply situation
(para 2.19).



- 56 -
B.   Economic Rate of Return
10.05      The base case economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated
at 18.6%, which is satisfactory. The cash flows used for this calculation
are given in Annex 10-2.  The results of sensitivity analyses are summar-
ized below:
Economic Rates of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Case                                            ERR (%)
Base Case                                           18.6
Product Prices down by 10%                          14.1
Product Prices up by 10%                            22.3
Capital Costs up by 10%                             17.0
Operating Costs up by 10%                           16.3
Gas Price increases by 10%                          16.6
Capacity Utilization down by 10%                    16.3
Delay of Completion by 1 year                       17.7
Economic Life of 15 years                           19.7
10.06      The table shows that the economic rate of return is more sensi-
tive to changes in urea prices and, to a lesser extent, changes in natural
gas and other operating costs and reductions in capacity utilization, than
to capital cost increases and delays in plant start-up.   The difference
between the financial and economic rates of return is mainly due to the
difference of declining financial prices for urea derived from retention
price formula (expressed in constant terms) and gradually increasing econo-
mic urea prices based on the international price forecast for urea, which
reflects the full calorific opportunity value of natural gas after the
international demand and supply will be in equilibrium in the end-1980s.
C.   Other Benefits and Sectoral Contributions
10.07       The Project will generate significant benefits for India.   The
expansion of domestic fertilizer production will directly reduce the coun-
try's  import  requirements.    The net  foreign exchange  savings  over  the
12-year life of the Project, after deduction of principal and interest pay-
ments on the foreign loans, are estimated at above US$2,619 million in 1984
US$ dollars as shown in Annex 10-3. The increased domestic production will
also help ensure a continuous and secure supply of fertilizer, thus allow-
ing India to pursue its agricultural growth targets with more certainty.
The Government has put a heavy emphasis on agricultural stability and
growth, and stepped-up fertilizer production will play a key role in
increasing agricultural output by improving yields.
10.08       The local engineering firms involved in Project implementation
will gain further valuable know-how and experience by participating in the
Project.   Direct employment created by the Project would be about 1,015
permanent jobs.   At the peak of construction activity,  more than 3,000
people will be employed  for Project implementation.   Furthermore,  since
about 33% of the equipment for the Project is expected to be supplied by
local manufacturers, the Project will have significant backward linkages
with the industrial sector, creating additional jobs and investments. The



- 57 -
local erection and civil works contracts will also have a posi ve impact
on the local economy.   Installation of a large industrial complex in an
otherwise entirely agricultural area will help attract small and medium
scale service industries needed to provide maintenance and other services
for the plant, all likely to further industrial development of the Guna
District.
10.09      The Bank involvement has been instrumental in the Government's
development of new initiatives addressing important sector issues. Follow-
ing Bank advice and encouragement, the Government has undertaken a program
of steps aimed at increasing operating efficiency of existing fertilizer
plants and at improving the institutional basis of the fertilizer indu-
stry. In addition to undertaking a rehabilitation study of the coal-based
plants, which is a sub-component of this Project, the Government has initi-
ated as a result of its dialogue with the Bank, the following specific
actions: (a) the implementation of a comprehensive technical and energy
audit program (para 2.12); (b) the development of a National Institute of
Fertilizer Technology to provide institutional support for energy saving
activities; and (c) the preparation of an extensive Management Resource
Study involving important aspects such as managerial career planning,
performance evaluation, and motivation and autonomy of senior managers. In
addition, the Bank has contributed over the years toward evolving changes
in the fertilizer pricing mechanism providing fertilizer manufacturers with
a better incentive to improve operating efficiency and to undertake
measures resulting in savings in energy and other production costs.
XI. AGREEMENTS
11.01      The following major assurances and agreements have been obtained
from the Government of India and NFL:
I.        From the Government that it will:
(a) carry out the rehabilitation study through FCI and make
available to FCI funds equal to US$3 million (paras
6.01 and 8.05);
(b)  ensure  adequate  and  timely  supply  of  gas  for  the
Project by October 1986 (para 6.12);
(c)  relend  funds  equal  to  US$200.0  million  from  the
proceeds of the Bank Loan to NFL under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 8.05);
(d) provide NFL with an equity contribution totalling Rs
2,115 million, and make available to NFL additional
funds required to cover any shortfall in the financing
plan on terms satisfactory to the Bank (paras 8.05 and
8.07); and
(e) not take, or cause to be taken, any action which would
revent fertilizer manufacturers, operating efficient-
ly, from covering all their expenses, servicing their



- 58 -
debt and earning a reasonable return on invested capi-
tal (para 9.08).
II.       From NFL that it will:
(a) make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with appro-
priate agencies and authorities for the provision of
adequate and timely supply of natural gas, power and
water for the Project (paras 6.12, 6.14 and 6.16);
(b) build and operate the Project in accordance with envi-
ronmental standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)  maintain  financial  covenants  and adhere to reporting
requirements described in paras 9.09 and 9.10.
11.02      With the above-mentioned assurances and agreements, the Project
is suitable for a Bank Loan to the Government of US$203.6 million equiva-
lent (including the capitalized front-end fee of US$0.6 million and US$3
million to finance the rehabilitation study of the two coal-based fertiliz-
er plants), for 20 years including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's applica-
ble variable interest rate.   The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and NFL under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 8.05).  Retroac-
tive financing of up to US$5 million is recommended under the loan for
eligible expenditures for engineering services and advance payments for
procurement of long delivery items incurredi after January 1, 1984.
Industry Department
April 1984



- 59_                                                            ANNEX 2
NIA - PADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
NITROGEN FERTILIZER PLANTS a/
----Productiona/----
1983/84C/
Capacity
Uoepaey/PLoet                Product          Feedutoc- k/         it      1981/82  1982/83    1983/84  U7 itiliiatite
00ty.l   (Ft Yn)     yUpe)       (~tyn)          (%
A.   Public Sector
1.   Fertil-er ond Che-cL-s Tt-e.ancora Ltd. (FACT) - KeraLa
Al.a.e - Idyog-audel           AS                  N               78.0        37.4       32.8       35.7           46
Ambalamed-     - Cochin I      Ur-a                N.A            152.10      118.R     )27 
Smbalab -de - Co-hie 11        NP/NPK              N               40.0         10.2    ) .7    )134.L             70
2.   F-rtiLIoct Torp. rottue oF India (FCI)
GIorakhpur - lttar Pr-deuh    Urea                 N              131.0        73.2       75.1       80.3           61
Siodri - BLhat                 AS, llrea           FO             219.0       118.6      131.5      125.9           58
OAe-guedae - Andhro Pradesh  Area                  C              228.0        58.9       73.5       75.11          33
Tarher nrista                  IJrea               C              228.0        45.8       19.5       42.6            19
1.    Fi-dootoc Peetliecc C-rpo-attio  ltd. (HFCL)
Narooi  - I'hal,               O-e                 N              152.0        74.2       78.5       60.8           40
urgapr-ds West Bengoa         UOra                 N              152.0        60.0       43.2       69.4           46
N..r-p - Assar                 Urea, AS            nG             107.0       104.9      (00.3       81.4            41
4. Madrau FerclL-eec Ltd. (MFL) d/
M-aaiL - Tni NSda              U-Jrea NP,, NPK     N              176.0       154.0      139.0      113.8           65
S.   Nati-ol Pertlitiar Ltd. (NFL)
Bhoticda - P-nj.h              Urea               FP              235.0       (33.7      150.7      162             69
Nangal - Poe1a6                CAN, Urea           Fn             232.n       170.4      180.8      I88             81
Pa-ipac - Naryana              Urea                FO             235.0       N82. i      68.9      161             69
0.   Neyveli Lignite Corp. (NLC)
Nevveli - Ta-1L Nad            IJrea               PO              70.(        45.2       49.3       55.2           79
I.  REshtclyp  Chemicals a-d Ferctlii-r Ltd. (RCFL)
TrteSay - Mahar-uhtra          Urea, NP, ANP       NC, A          317.1:      167.3      209.6      277.8           88
8.   Steel Auth-rity of Lndia Ltd. (SAIL.)
Ro-rkeLa - )rissa              CAN                 COC, N         120.0        53.4      1(.3        22.9            19
LsaL) pLancs                 AS                 CTO              24.0        16.1       17.0       14.9           62
Total Public Sector                                            29_2         1.624.2   1.599,4    1.700.8            507.1
B.  _rliate Sector
1.   Coromandel Feretilier LUt. (CFL)
Vicag - Andhra Prade-h         Urea, NP, NPK       N               84.0        71.1       63         71.5           Ns
2.   EID - Porry (India)
Fnnore - Tatil Nado            APS                 N               16.0         8.0        7.7        9.2            58
3.   Ga.ar.t Nar-ada Valley Fertili-er Ltd. (GNVF)
Bh-ruch - Gj-arac             USee                 PO             273.0         2.4      178.2      212.9           78
4.   Gojarat State Fertilizer C,. (GSFC)
BNerodo - Gujor-t              Urea, AS, DAP       NO, N          236.0       200.8      184.4      205.9           87
5.   Hai Fertili-ers Ltd. (NCOM)
Varana. i - Ttter Pradesh      A/CL                COT             10.0         2.1        1.2        3.5           35
6.   Indian TEplosi-ee  Ltd. (IEL)
Kanpe-- Utter Pr-de-h          Urea                N              310.0       202.0      262.9      237.8           77
7.   Macgalore Chemic-ls and Fertiliaers Ltd. (MCFL)
Ma-gaioe - Karataka            Urea                N              156.0       118.8       97.2      104.2           67
N.   Shr.ra.  Fertllieer Corp. (SFC)
Keta - Rajajtha-               Uea-                N              152.0       121.1      143.4      136.7           90
9.   Southern Petrochemictl Itdu=tries Corp. (SPIC)
Tutic-rie - Tamil Nado         Uree, NP, NPK       N              258.0       206.2      278.1      246.5           96
10.  Tote Iron a-d Ste-i C.. (TISCO)
Ja.uhedpee - Bihar             AS                  COG              4.0         3.3        3.3        2.9            73
11.  Zoai Agro Che-icals Ltd. (ZACL)
Sen Col - Gee                U-re                  N              171.0       144.1      171.8      140.9           82
Total Private Sector                                            1,670.0    1,079.9   1,391.2   1,37 2.0             82
C.  CToperati-e S-cter
1.  Indian Parmers Fertili-ee Ceopera-te- (IFFCO)
Kandle/KelIl - Guj-rat       Urea, NP, NPK         NG             260.0       255.1      277.1      253.0           97
Phulpur - liter  P-adeuh    Urea                   N              228.0       183.2      166.8      174.2           76
Tetal CToper-ti-e Sector                                         488.0        438.3      443.9      427.2           88
Total India                                                     5,144.0    3,142.4   3,434.5   3,500.0              68
e/   FY April through March.
b/   FO = Fuel Oil; N = Naphtha; C - CTol; NG - Natural CaN; A - Am-nia, COG - Coke Sees Gas.
c/   Estimated.
d/   Graed jointly cich pritace seecor.
Source:  Fer-tli-er Associetio- of India a-d kiimury of Chemicels and Fert1lleers.
indcstey Departeet
March 1984



INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
INDIAN AGRICIJLTURE STATISTICS, 1952-1981 a/
Average Annual Growth Rates
1952       1961          1971          1981            1952-1981        1961-1981       1971-1981
Gross Cropped Area (million ha)         133.2        152.8         165.8         173.0                0.9             0.6              0.4
Net Cropped Area (million ha)           119.4        133.2         140.8         143.0b/              0.6             0.4              0.2
Area under Multiple Cropping              13.8        19.6          25.0          30.0b/              2.7              2.2             1.8
(million ha)
Gross Irrigated Area (million ha)   23.2              28.0          38.2          55.0                3.0             3.4              3.2
Gross Irrigated Area as Z of              17.4        18.3          23.0          31.8                2.1              2.8             3.3
Gross Cropped Area
Gross Area under HYV                      -            -            15.4          45.2                -               -               11.4
Gross Area under HYV as % of              -            -             9.3          26.1                -               -               10.9
Gross Cropped Area
Total Fertilizer Consumption             65.6        239.9       2,256.0      5,515.6                16.5             17.0             9.4
('000 tons nutrient)
Fertilizer Consumption (kg) per           0.6          1.9          13.6          31.5               14.6            15.1              8.8
ha of Gross Cropped Area
NPK Consumption Ratios             7.6:0.9:1      7.3:1.8:1       6.3:2.3:1    5.9:1.9:1              -               -
Foodgrain Production (million tons) 52.0              82.0         108.4         129.9                3.2             2.3              1.8
Total Population (million)              361.0        439.2         548.2         683.8                2.2             2.2              2.2
a/   Most of the data correspond to the years ending March 31.  Consumption data, however, relate to
years ending January 31.
b/   Estimated.
Source: Fertilizer Association of India.
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
HISTORICAL CONSUMPTION, PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS OF FERTILIZERS, 1952-1983 a/
(in '000 tons of nutrient)
Nitrogen                                 Phosphate                             Potash                        All Nutrients
Year      Consumption   Produietion   Imports   Consumption   Production   Imports   Consumption   Imports   Consumption   Production   Imports
1952/53           58             53         44               5              7           -            3               3            66             60            47
1953/54           89             53         19               8              14          -            8               7           105             67            26
1954/55           95             68         20              15             14           -           11              11           121             82            31
1955/56          107             77         53               13            12           -           10              10           131             89            63
1956/57          123             79         57               16            17           -           15              15           154            106            72
1957/58          149             81        110              22             26           -           13              13           184            107           123
1958/59          172             81         97              29             31           -           22              22           224            112           119
1959/60          229             84        142              54             51           4           21              33           305            135           179
1960/61          212            112        399              53             54           -           29              20           294            166           419
1961/62          250            154        307              60             65           -           28              75           338            219           382
1962/63          333            194        244              83             88          10           36              41           452            282           295
1963/64          377            219        228             116            108          13           50              40           544            327           281
1964/65          555            243        232             149            131          12           69              57           773            374           301
1965/66          575            238        326             132            119          14           77              73           785            357           413
1966/67          738            309        632             248            146         148          114             118         1,101            455           898
1967/68        1,034            402        867             335            207         349          170             270         1,539            609         1,486
1968/69        1,209            563        844             382            213         138          170             213         1,761            776         1,195
1969/70        1,356            730        667             416            224          94         210              120         1,982            954           881
1970/71        1,479            832        477             541            228          32         236              120         2,256          1,060           629
1971/72        1,798            949        481             558            290         248          300             268         2,657          1,239           997
1972/73       1,839          1,054         665             582            330         204         347              325        2,768           1,384         1,194
1973/74        1,829          1,050        659             650            324         213          360             370         2,839          1,374         1,242
1974/75       1,766          1,186         884             471            331         286         336              437         2,573          1,517         1,607
1975/76       2,149          1,535         996             467            320         361         278              278         2,894          1,855         1,635
1976/77       2,457          1,857         750             635            478          23         319              278         3,411          2,335         1,051
1977/78       2,913          2,000         758             867            670         164         506              599         4,286          2,670         1,521
1978/79       3,419          2,169       1,228           1,106            776         243          592             517         5,117          2,945         1,988
1979/80       3,498          2,226       1,295           1,151            763         237         606              473         5,255          2,989         2,005
1980/81       3,678          2,164       1,510           1,214            842         452         624              797         5,516          3,006         2,759
1981/82       4,069          3,143       1,055           1,322            950         343         676              644        6,067           4,093         2,042
1982/83       4,263          3,434         425           1,420            984          65         735              644        6,418           4,418         1,133
1983/84       4,900          3,500        n.a.           1,620          1,000         n.a.        811            n.a.         7,331           4,500          n.a.
(Est.)                                                             ___                                       i
a/ Consumption years run from February 1 to January 31.  ProduLction years run from April I to March 31.  Figures represent offtake from plants
and importers.
Source: The Fertilizer Association of India.
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
INDIA - PROJECTED GROWTH OF NITROGEN FERTILIZER DEMAND AND PRODUCTION
(in million tons of nutrient)
Demand                                                       Supply                                    Gap
Realistic Growth                  Lower Growth c/              Plant                            Plant Capacity        Realistic  Lower
Year                  %  Rate       Quantity         %  Rate         Quantity      Capacity a/    Production b/    Utilization (%)            Demand   Demand
1982/83 (actual)               4.8           4.3               4.8            4.3            5.1               3.4                 67                 .9           -
1983/84 (estimate)            15.0           4.9              15.0            4.9            5.2               3.5                 68                1.4          -
1984/85 (projected)            7.2           5.3               6.0            5.2            6.4               4.4                 70                 .9           .8
1985/86                        7.0           5.6               5.6            5.5            7.1               5.0                 71                 .6           .5
1986/87                        6.8           6.0               5.2            5.8            7.1               5.3                 75                 .7           .5
1987/88                        6.5           6.4               4.9            6.1            7.3               5.6                 77                 .8           .5
1988/89                        6.3           6.8               4.6            6.3            7.4               5.7                 77                1.1           .6
1989/90                        6.1           7.2               4.3            6.6            7.4               5.8                 78                1.4           .8
1994/95                        5.0           9.2               4.0            8.0            7.4               6.1                 82                3.1          1.9
1999/2000                      5.0          11.8               4.0            9.8            7.4               6.1                 82                5.7          3.7
a/  Including all plants in operation and under implementation as of early 1984, plus NP Project.
b/  Assuming utilization of existing plants to increase to 75% of capacity by 1989/90 and 80% by 1994/95 and thereafter, with the Hazira, Thal and
MP plants to reach 90% by their respective third years of operation.
c/  Assuming a conservative but less likely scenario whereby growth rates would be gradually reduced to 4% p.a. after 1980/90 and remaining at that
level thereafter; against 5% assumed in the base case.
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA - MADhYA PRADESHI FERTILIZER PROJECT
NFL - MARKETING PROGRAM
('000 tyn)
1982/83                1983/84                    1984/85                   1985/86                  1986/87                 1987/88              *         1988/89                     1989/90                      1990/91
Exist.0/       ExIst.  P0o.lt/  Total   Exist.  Pool  Total    Exit.c   Poo1  Total    Exist.  Pool  Total               Exixt.  Pool  Total         MP      Exist.  Total        MP   Exist.  Total          MP   Exist.   Total
PooJob                              271            300       -        300      300      -       300      300      -      300       300       -     300        325      -      325                335       335         -     340      340          -   360         360
(NFL Market Shore) c/          (46)                              (43)                      (39)                      (36)                     (33)                        (33)                        (32)                        (30)                        (30)
liaryasa                            101            i15       -        115      115      -       115      II       -       115      115       -     115        130      -       130        -      145       145         -     165       Ih5         2    1b8        170
(NFL Market Share)             (46)                              (43)                      (40)                      (36)                     (33)                        (35)                        (36)                        (38)                        (38)
RaJasCtho                            15             15        8        23       15      12       27       15     16        31       15      20       35        15    25         40       23        17       40        22      18        40        40       -        40
(NFL Market Share)             (12)                              (15)                      (17)                      (18)                     (19)                        (20)                        (19)                        (17)                        (17)
Utt-r Prad-sh                        52             25      62         87       40     68       1O8       46     71       117       63      63     126         53     82       135      lOS        35      140       143       7       150       155       -       155
(NFL Market Shore)              (5)                               (7)                       '8)                       (8)                       (8)                        (8)                         (8)                         (8)                          (8)
Madhya Prodesh                        -             20       16        36       20      22       42       40      14       54       40      18       58        10    64         74       92         -       92       105       -       105       120       -        120
(NFL Market Share)              (-)                              (21)                      (23)                      (27)                     (27)                        (32)                        (37)                        (40)                        (43)
Himashal Pr-desh, Jammu
and Kaxheir, Delhi, etc.           28             38       -         38       38               38       29     _        29        29      _       29         29      -       29         -       30        30                32       32          -     34         34
467            513      86        599      528    102      630       545    101      646       562     1()l    663        962    171      733       220      562       782      270      562      .32        317    562        879
0/   Productioe from NFL's exsting plnts at Bhatioda, Nangal and Panipat; proJectioes assume the following  rates of rapacity utilization: 731  io 1983/84, 75)  in 1984/85, 77.52 in 1985/86 and 80% thereafter.
b/   Purchases of area frot  GOI Ferttli-er Pool fot MP Seeding Pr-ogra.
c/   Oxl porceot; based oo state-wise demond proj-ctions shown on Annex 4-2.
Indostry Departmeot
March 1984



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
INDIA - HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED CONSUMPTION OF
NITROGEN FERTILIZERS FOR SELECTED STATES AND ALL INDIA
Madhya Pradesh           Rajasthan          Uttar Pradesh            All India
Growth                 Growth                Growth                Growth
Historical       '000 tyn   Rate        '000 tyn   Rate       '000 tyn   Rate        '000 tyn   Rate
1977/78           100        10.0          90       14.0          648    13.2        2,913      18.6
1978/79           121       21.6          105       17.0          772    19.2        3,419      17.4
1979/80            97      -20.1          115        9.4          756    -2.1        3,498       2.3
1980/81           122       25.6          107       -7.6          861    13.8        3,678       5.1
1981/82           145       18.9          107        0.1          951    10.5        4,069      10.6
1982/83           148        2.3          126       18.0        1,074    13.0        4,263       4.8
Average
1977/78-1982/83              8.2                     7.0                  10.6                   7.9
Projected
1983/84a!         170       15.0          151       20.0        1,245    16.0        4,902      15.0
1984/85           182        7.0          159        5.0        1,351      8.4       5,256       7.2
1985/86           199        9.1          172        8.5        1,460      8.1       5,623       7.0
1986/87           215        8.0          186        8.2        1,574      7.5       6,005       6.8
1987/88           231        7.6          200        7.5        1,692      7.5       6,396       6.5
1988/89           248        7.5          215        7.2        1,819      7.5       6,788       6.3
1989/90           267        7.5          230        7.0        1,956      7.5       7,213       6.1
1994/95           357        6.0          294        6.0        2,618      6.0       9,205       5.0
1999/2000         478        6.0          412        6.0        3,503      6.0      11,750       5.0
a/ Estimated.
Industry Department
March 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF NEW MARKETS FOR MP PLANT
1.        Madhya Pradesh.  Although it is the largest state in India,
current nitrogen fertilizer consumption in MP totals only some 157,000 tyn,
corresponding to a low 6.7 kg/ha nutrient application. This compares with
24.3 kg/ha for all of India and 89.4 kg/ha for Punjab. The state's gross
area under cultivation totalled 21.7 million ha in 1978/79, of which 12.3%
were under irrigation. Particularly the western parts of the State are
benefitting from regular rainfalls. The important food crops are rice,
wheat and jowar, whereas cotton, sugarcane and groundnut are cultivated as
cash crops. About 3.6 million ha were used under HYV. A number of minor
irrigation projects are underway which will increase fertilizer demand in
the near future.
2.        Annex 4-2 which provides data on historical nitrogen consumption
for 1977/78 through 1982/83, shows that over the most recent five-year
period, the average growth in demand in MP was 9.4%; this is substantially
above the latest five-year demand growth for all of India, at 7.8%. Since
fertilizer consumption in MP is still at a low level in relation to other
parts of India, due partly to a general shortage of fertilizer in the past
and lack of promotion of its use, there is above-average potential for a
rapid expansion of consumption. It is thus assumed that future growth
rates will be above those for India as a whole, but will follow a similar
decreasing trend from an assumed level of 15% in 1983/84 to 6% by 1994/95
and thereafter. As a result, MP consumption should reach 267,000 tyn by
1989/90 and 478,000 tyn by 1999/2000.
3.        Rajasthan.  Similar to MP, Rj, the second largest State in India,
has a very low nitrogen fertilizer consumption. It amounted to 126,000 tyn
in 1982/83 which correspond to an application rate of 6.9 kg/ha. The total
cropped area in 1978/79 amounted to 34.7 million ha of which 18.7% were
under irrigation. Principal foodcrops are wheat, pulses and jowar, with
groundnut and cotton the main commercial crops. Due to limited irrigation,
only some two million ha were under HYV. In recent years consumption in Rj
has suffered from droughts as well as floods which caused consumption in
1980/81 to decrease by 7.6% and then stay unchanged in 1981/82. Only in
1982/83 did consumption grow again, resulting in an average growth rate for
the last five years of 7%.
4.        Although a few irrigation projects in the State are underway, it
is expected that future growth rates will remain below Indian averages.
The projections in Annex 4-2 assume that the latest five-year average
growth rate will continue for the rest of the decade and then decrease in
line with the Indian averages, until stabilizing at a rate of 6% by the
mid-1990's. Accordingly, nitrogen consumption is estimated to grow to
230,000 tyn by 1989/90 and 412,000 tyn by 1999/2000.



- 66 --
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
5.        Uttar Pradesh.  This State, the most densely populated in India,
benefits from the water resources of the Hindu-Ghangetic plains and is very
fertile. Fertilizer consumption growth has been strong and exceeded Indian
averages as shown in Annex 4-2. The recent five-year period showed a 10.6%
annual growth, and total nitrogen consumption in 1982/83 stands at 1.1
million tyn. The total area under cultivation was 29.8 million ha, of
which some 50% were irrigated. The two major food crops are wheat and
paddy, while surgarcane is the most important cash crop accounting for over
50% of the total area under this crop in India. HYV covered some 8 million
ha. Nitrogen application amounted to 44.2 kg/ha.
6.        Several large irrigation and drainage projects are underway in UP
and point to a continued above-average growth in the future, particularly
since past growth was held back somewhat by the shortage of available
fertilizer. The projections in Annex 4-2 are based on the assumption that
demand growth in Uttar Pradesh would, similarly to those projected for MP,
continue to be above Indian averages, decreasing from the estimated 16% in
1983/84 to 7.5% by 1989/90 and 6% by 1994/95 and thereafter. Consumption
in the State would thus reach 2 million tyn by 1989/90 and 3.5 million tyn
by 1999/2000.
Industry Department
March 1984



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
NFL STAFF INCENTIVE SCHEMES
A. Operational Incentive Scheme
1.        NFL, like various other public sector fertilizer companies, has
introduced incentive schemes at Nangal, Bhatinda and Panipat for motivating
employees to optimize efficiency of the plant operations. The schemes are
applied to the different staff groups, which are direct or indirect
contributors to plant operational performance, and their respective shares
of the incentive benefits are 100% or 80% accordingly. One scheme covers
employee pay scales of assistant manager and below. The plant performance
criteria at Bhatinda and Panipat are utilization of capacity and manpower
(productivity index, PI) and of raw materials (material utilization index,
MUI). The PI is a multiple of: (i) the ratio (not less than 1) of actual
production to the base (70% of rated capacity) over a given period; and
(ii) the ratio (between 0.8 and 1.2) of standard group strength to actual,
including overtime and casual labour. The MUI is the ratio (not less than
1) of the base consumption of an input (7-11% higher than standard
consumption) to actual over a given period; weighted according to the input
value to determine the overall MUI. Absenteeism is discouraged by
calculation of incentives proportionate to an enmployee's attendance
level. The performance measured by each index can lead to separate
incentive payments of up to 15% of the employee's basic salary, subject to
some small reduction through a GOI ceiling on total incentives plus
statutory bonus. The scheme in operation at Nangal is broadly similar,
differing in index definition, bonus levels, and payment periods. For more
senior NFL officers, at and below deputy general manager level, the
incentives are based on the same productivity and materials consumption
efficiency factors, except that the production performance incentive starts
at 80% of plant rated capacity. Based on these schemes, NFL will introduce
an incentive system for the Project's operational state.
B. Implementation Incentive Scheme
2.        NFL is investigating the use of a new scheme of project
management team incentives and penalties during Project execution based on
positive experience in the Thal fertilizer project. The objectives are to
complete the Project on-schedule and within the approved cost and to
minimize absenteeism and overtime working. For the Thal scheme, this is
based on comparing actual with scheduled progress on each project area and
on the project as a whole, aggregated from the weighted progress in the
areas. On-schedule progress (100% performance) will provide staff with the
maximum scope of incentives at 15% of basic salary for each of the area and
total project related performances. The incentives commence at 70%
performance levels. Incentive payments, adjusted for individuals'
attendance levels, are calculated monthly as: (i) the average of the
incentives for a specific project area and for the total project, payable



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
to the direct staff of the area group; (ii) 80% of the total project
incentive, for semi-direct staff working full-time in common service
functions; and (iii) 60% of the total project incentive for indirected
staff working part-time in common services.
3.        In addition, to motivate achievement of minimum project cost,
there is an incentive of 5% of basic salary if the actual cost at
completion equals the cost approved. This will gradually diminish to zero
for a 5.3% cost overrun and become a 5% penalty at an overrun of 11%. Any
penalty would be deducted from the withheld progress incentive payments,
with no recovery for a negative net sum.
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR                       1984                    1985                        198                         197
ACTMIY                     =N4   2   4   6   8   10  12  14  16  l1 20  22  24  26  28  30  32  34  36  38  40  42  44
PROCESS PLANTS
A Crtical Equipment Data
Basic Engineering                   *'~K)-                 8 Preliminary P&iD.
Detailed Engineering        _           _                               - _           -.                              Am
Procurement & Construction                                                                                       Urea  Urea
Equipment                                                                            _
CMvi/Structurai Works                         0    mm
Piping (Under/Above Ground)                                 0
Electtical                                                           0       _
Instrurnentation                                       V                  0    -
Insulation & Painting                                                              0    am
Testing & Commissloning
OFFSITES
Instrurnent Alr System                                                              _      -     rif        C
Water Services                                                                        Raw Water
Steam Generation & Power Plant            AV                                 _                      oies
Efluent Treatment Plant                                  V
Yard Piping                                              v                              '       um
Power Suppty & Dlstributlon                  v                Y
CMis. Structures. Control Room                 0                                                J
Township                     vo                        ,3 ,                                _                                              3
(Incl. Slte Temp./Constr. Works)                             Housing 70%                           100%
Construction Power & Water  V
V   Issue Purchase Order           Zero Date                                                              Initial    Mechanicai  Commerclal
O   Issue Work Order                4/1/84                                                              Gas Usage   Completion   Production
A   100% Materials Received at Site                                                                       11/1/86       5/1/87      10/1/87
-w  Constwutlon
Wood Bank - 25155
indusy Dpqrtment
March 1984



- 70 -
ANNEX 8-1
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMACE
Rs Million                                 US$ Million (Rs 10.2 = US$1)
Indirect                                         Indirect
Foreign      Local                               Foreign      Local
Exchange   Component                             Exchange   Component
Direct   of Local   of Local                    Direct   of Local   of Local
Imports  Purchases  Purchases  Total            Imports  Purchases  Purchases   Total
1.   Equipment and Spares
Ammonia Plant                              688          52          100        840        67.5          5.1          9.8         82.4
Urea Plant                                 233          60          113         406       22.8          5.9         11.1         39.8
Power & Steam Gener'n                      327           3            6        336        32.1         0.3           0.6         33.0
Power Distribution                          10          26           51          87         1.0         2.5          5.0          8.5
Other Offsites                              61          92          175         328        6.0         9.0          17.2         32.2
Spares                                     148          28           52         228        14.5         2.7          5.1         22.3
Construction Tools                          29          15           31          75         2.8         1.5          3.0          7.3
Subtotal                            1,496         276          528      2,300       146.7        27.0          51.8        225.5
2.   Ocean Freight & Insarance                      165           -            -         165        16.2         -            -           16.2
3.   Inland Handling                                  -           9           90          99         -           0.9          8.8          9.7
4.   Duties & Taxes                                   -           -          846         846         -           -           82.9         82.9
Delivered Cost of
Equipment and Spares                   1,661         285        1,464       3,410       162.9        27.9        143.5        334.3
5.   License & Engineering Services                 136           -          132         268        13.3         -           13.0         26.3
6.   Project Management & Insurance                   6           -          116         122         0.6         -           11.4         12.0
7.   Land and Site Development                        -           -           89          89         -           -            8.7          8.7
8.   Civil Works and Buildings                        -          20          337         357         -           2.0         33.0         35.0
9.   Erection                                        78          22          290         390         7.6         2.2         28.4         38.2
10.  Commissioning Charges                           16           -          102         118         1.6        -            10.0         11.6
11.  Township                                         -           8          114         122        -           0.8          11.2         12.0
12.  Power, Road & Rail Links,
Constn. Facils.                               -           3           34          37        -           0.3           3.3          3.6
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                1,897         338        2,678       4,913       186.0        33.2        262.5        481.7
(in April 1, 1984 prices)
Physical Contingencies (5% of BCE)                   95          17          134         246         9.3         1.7         13.1         24.1
Price Escalation a/                                 120          30          237         387        11.8         2.9         23.3         38.0
Total Installed Cost                    2,112         385        3,049       5,546       207.1        37.8        298.9        543.8
Working Capital                                       10          -          313         323         1.0         -           30.6         31.6
Total Project Cost                      2,122          385       3,362       5,869       208.1        37.8        329.5         575.4
Interest During Construction                        466           -          142         608        45.6         -           14.0         59.6
Front-End Fee                                         6           -            -           6         0.6         -            -            0.6
Total NFL Financing Req'd               2,594         385        3,504       6,483       254.3        37.8        343.5        635.6
FCI Rehabilitation Study                             26           -            5          31         2.5         -            0.5          3.0
Overall Financing Required              2,620         385        3,509       6,514       256.8        37.8        344.0        638.6
a/   6.4% of base cost estimate and physical contingencies for foreigrn currency expenditure and 8.5% for local currency.
Price escalation is based on expected international annual inflation rates of 3.3% in 1984, 8% in 1985, and 9.0% in
1986, 1987 and 1988, and on expected local inflation rates of 7% p.a. to 1986/87 and 6% p.a. thereafter.
Industry Department
March 1984



- 71 -
ANNEX 8-2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
IBRD LOAN - ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Quarterly                Cumulative
Period                       Disbursements             Disbursements
1984 July-Sept.                   4.4                       4.4
Oct.-Dec.                    4.9                       9.3
1985 Jan.-March                   5.1                       14.4
Apr.-June                   6.7                       21.1
July-Sept.                  10.3                      31.4
Oct.-Dec.                   17.1                      48.5
1986 Jan.-March                  19.6                      68.1
Apr.-June                   21.4                      89.5
July-Sept.                  17.4                     106.9
Oct.-Dec.                   16.3                     123.2
1987 Jan.-March                  15.5                      138.7
Apr.-June                   13.3                     152.0
July-Sept.                  12.7                     164.7
Oct.-Dec.                   11.8                     176.5
1988 Jan.-March                   8.8                      185.3
Apr.-June                    6.4                     191.7
July-Sept.                   4.4                     196.1
Oct.-Dec.                    3.4                     199.5
1989 Jan.-March                   2.5                     202.0
Apr.-June                    1.6                     203.6
Industry Department
March 1984



- 72 -
ANNEX 9-1
Page I of 2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING THE FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   General
1.        The financial projections are prepared for both the Project as a
separate profit center and the company consolidated with the Project in
current Rupees and are based on NFL's fiscal year lasting from April 1
through March 31. Operating costs have been escalated in accordance with
expected inflation at a rate of 7% p.a. from 1984/85 until 1986/87, and 6%
p.a. thereafter. Revenues are expressed in current terms as a result of
the application of the retention price formula (Annex 9-2).
B.   Project Revenues
2.        It is assumed that the Project will start commercial operations
by April 1988. The capacity utilization of the Project is estimated to be
65% in the first year of operation, 80% in the second year, and 95%
thereafter. At 95% capacity utilization, the Project will produce 689,700
tpy of urea. The urea prices are calculated on the basis of the "retention
price" formula (Annex 9-2) which reflect ex-factory prices of the company
and do not include any distribution related costs like freight or dealer's
margin. The sales price for the relatively small quantities of excess
ammonia is assumed at 90% of the retention price of urea.
C.   Operating Cost and Working Capital
3.        Production costs are projected in Ainex 9-3, Table 2.  The input
prices are based on the present price structure and are escalated to the
respective year of operation. A summary table in constant terms of April
1984 is presented in para 9.05. Depreciation of the depreciable assets is
calculated on the basis of the current practice of NFL which uses the
straight-line method over 12 years. Non-depreciable assets include land,
site development, township and infrastructure. The working capital
requirements are also specified in Annex 9-3, Table 2.
D.   Taxes and Dividends
4.        The corporate income tax is 57.8%.  However, according to the
Indian Income Tax Laws, the Project is eligible for various tax benefits.
For the purpose of tax calculation, the following tax reduction schemes
were incorporated: (a) investment tax credit equal to 25% of the actual
cost of the machinery and plant (carry-forward is allowed for a period of 8
years); (b) tax holidays (deduction) equivalent to 25% of the taxable
income for a period of 7 years from the start of operations; and (c)
allowances for backward area equivalent to 20% of taxable income for 10
years from the start of operations. NFL's current dividend policy reflects
a cash distribution of 5% on paid-in share capital. It is assumed that
this policy will continue during commercial operation of the Project.



- 73 -
ANNEX 9-1
Page 2 of 2
E.   Financing Plan and Debt Service
5.        The Project's financing plan is presented in Chapter VIII of this
report and projected debt service schedule is detailed in Table 3 of Annex
9-3. As mentioned earlier, the Bank Loan is made directly to the
Government who will relend the Bank proceeds together with its own funds on
standard terms and conditions applied to all Government long-term lending
in the public sector. Presently, the terms are the following: (a) 15
years maturity including 5 years grace period; (b) 12.75% annual interest
rate; and (c) principal repayment in 10 equal installments.
6.        The total amount of long-term borrowing is determined as
follows: Total fixed assets, minus costs of township, plus 35% of initial
working capital requirement and multiplied by a factor of 0.5 will equal
the amount of long-term debt. The capital expenditures for the township
are financed through Government provided equity. 65% of initial working
capital will be borrowed from commercial banks on a short to medium-term
basis at an assumed interest rate of 17.5% per annum. As a result of these
two modifications, the total financing plan varies slightly from the
general principal of project financing at a debt/equity ratio of 50:50.
7.        It is common practice in the Indian public sector that equity is
drawn down first before loans are drawn down. Since Bank funds are not
intended to provide equity to the Project and have to be relent in form of
debt, only the difference between total and Bank disbursement can be
drawn-down in form of equity. In accordance with current lending practice
of the Government, the annually disbursed loan amounts will constitute each
a separate sub-loan with its own repayment schedule.
F.   Consolidation of Financial Projections
8.        NFL had prepared, for the Bank, corporate financial projections
up to FY1993/94 including its existing three plants at Nangal, Panipat and
Bhatinda but excluding the MP Project. After a review confirmed that they
indeed provided a realistic basis for long-term financial planning, the
project specific projections were superimposed to accomplish the financial
statements (income statement, balance sheet and cash-flow statement) for
the consolidated company. It was, however, assumed that all excess cash
above tfhe equity requirements of firmly planned investments would be used
for internal equity contribution to the MP Project.
Industry Department
March 1984



- 74 -
Annex 9-2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
UREA RETENTION PRICE CALCULATION
1.        The urea retention price is calculated on this basis of the
formula enunciated by the Marathe Committee in November 1978 and follow the
basic principle given below:
(i)   Share capital employed in urea production.
(ii) + Retained earnings.
(iii) - Capital employed outside the business and accumulated surplus
cash.
(iv) = Equity employed in the line of business (but cannot decrease
below share capital which contrfibutes this floor level).
(v)   28.436% return on equity employed.
(vi) + Variable and fixed production costs at 80% capacity utilization
related to urea production, incLuding depreciation based on
standard rates determined by FICC.
(vii) + Interest on short and long-term debt associated with urea
production. In each successive block of 3 years, interest on
long and short-term debt are considered equal to those of the
middle year.
(viii) = Ex-factory revenues to producer,.
(ix) - Production volume of urea at 80%. capacity utilization.
(x) = Urea retention price allowed.
2.         While operating cost changes are reflected immediately other
parameters like capital employed and interest charges are only re-assessed
in intervals of three years. As can be seen in the price retention
schedule on the following page, capital employed never rises above the
amount of share capital. This is because accumulated surplus cash exceeds
retained earnings, and the provision on the lower limit applies. Meanwhile
increases in production costs due to inflation, increase the retention
price. Although the retention price increases at a rate below the expected
inflation rate since the return of capital components is not subject to
inflationary adjustments the formula provides the project entity with
sufficient cash flow and a more or less steady net profit before taxes in
current terms.



INDIA-MHADYA PRADESH FERTIL17ER PRO,lEUIT
RETENTION PRrICE fOR UREA
(IN RS. MILLION)
1988189  1989/90  1990/91  1991/J92' I'79 C.  1`19'Z/94  1994/9Z5  19965/    1994/97  1997/98   1998/99  1999/2000
NET WORTH:
SHARE CAPITAL                              3,140    3t140   3;,140   3S140    3,140    3,140    ;'il40   "I 14(i    i.1cJ0    7I 40         3,140       3tl40
ADD 'RETAINED EARNINGS                         -        --    1771   t1i771    lo771    3,919    3,919    3f$'19    5..bR                  5,626       5,626
LESS':SURPl.llS CASH                           -        -              2,642   2i'642    2t642    5354    St354    5S354    7t529          7,529       7,529
CAPITAL EMPLOYED                           3,140    30140    3,140    30140    3,140        4140    3,140    3,140    3i140    30140        3,140       3,140
PRICINO ELEMENTS:
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED(268436%)           893      893       893      893       893      893       893      8'93      893      893        893         893
VARIABLE PRORIDJTION COSTS                  11t49    t,216   th271    1,368    li451    11538    11630    10727    t1829    1,940          2,058       2,179    -
FIXED PRODUCTION COSTS                        726      741       755      803       823      843       9255     953       981    1013       1,045       1,080
INTEREST ON L*T.DEBT                          398      398       398      334       334      334      222       222      2122      t09        109         109
INTEREST ON S.T*DEBT                           18       18        18        -         -        -
SALES TO BE REALIZED                        3,184    3,269    3,35 59    3,398    3t501    3,608   I3t670    37095    3,925    3)955        4,105       4t261
UREA PRODUCTION('000 TONS)(A)               580.$    580.8    580.8    580,8   580>,1    580.8    580.8    530.8    580.3    580a           580.8       580.8
ADDITIONAL AMMONIA PRIN.('000 TONS)(A)       16.6     16.6      16.6     16,6      16.4     16.6      16,6     16,6      16.6    1t.6        16,6        16.6
UREA RETENTION PRICE(RS./TON)               5J,S45    5,486    ,,3t9    5,704    5,877   6b057    6,l6J    6,371    4,589    6,639          b.891       7,153
NOTE:
(A) 80  CAPACITY UTILIZATION                                                                                                                               1;
INDUSTRY PROIJECTS DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                               0 
04/04/84                                                                                                                                                      11 C



IND1A-IIAD{A F'RA8ESH FERTILIZER PRO.FET
INVESTMENT, FINANCING, AND (ICIRECIATIIIN SC1'IIEit
(IN 9S. MILLION)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  19(18/09  1909/90  19?90/91  1991/972  1992/93  1993/94  1994195    1995/96  J996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/2000
INVESTNENTS
NON--EWPRECIABLE ASSETS.
LAND                           2             - -            --                                    --                                      -        -         -         --
SITE DEVELWONENT              42        47        8         -        ---                                                                           -         -         - 
TIIVSJIP                      26        42       42        21        5                                                                    -        --
INCRASTRUCTUR                 37         3        -        -                                        
SPARES                         4        58      145        53                                              -         -        --                   --
SUBTIOTAL                 III      150       195       74         5         -- 
DEPRECIABLE ASSETS:
EQUJIPMIENTS I
FACILITIES                   326    1,575    1,955    1,079         75         -                                     --                            -         --
INT, "UING CTINSI,            13        85      ?226     291         -                  -         -        -         -        --                   -         -
SU3TIITAL.                339    1,6.50    2.101    1,370        75                  --                                                                              
W(ORKING CWPITAL                 -         -                         323                                     -         --                            -         -         --
TOTAL INVESTMENTS              450    1,810    2,376    1.444        403         -                                                                                         
0-1
FINANKIN PLAN
LONG TERM DEBT                 213    1,140       751       836      193                            -         --
SH(T TERM DEBT                   -              -        -           2180                                                                              
EQUITY                         237       670    1,62        608        -         -                           -         -        --                   -         -         --
TOTAL FINANCING              450    1,810    2P376    1,444        407.3-                         -                   
DEPRECIATION
GROM FIXED ASSETS'
DEPRECIABLE ASSETS             -         -             -         5.625    5,625    5.625    5.625    5,625    5.625    5,625         5,625    5.625    5.625    59625        5,625,
WIRIN PROGRESS               339    1,999    4,180    5,5            -         -                  -        ---                           -         -                    
NON-DEPRECIABLE ASSETS       III      261       456      530       535       535      535       535      535       535      535        535      535       535       5359        535
SUBTOTAL                  III      '26J      456      530    6,160    6,160    6,16(1    6160    6,160    6,160    6.160         6,160    6,160    6,160    6.160         6,160
DEPRECIATION                     -         -        -         .      469       469      469       469      469      469       469        469      469       469       469         469
ACCUNILATrII DEPRECIATION        -                            -      469       938    1,407    1,876    2)345    2,814    3,203        3.752    4.221    4,690    5.159         5,628
NET FIXED ASSETS               I11      261       456      530    5.691    5,222    4,Th3    4,284    3,815    3.7.46    2,P77         2,408    1.939    1,470    1.001          532
INDUSTRIAL PRONECTS DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                     - 
04/04184



- 77 -
ANNEX 9-3
INDIA-MADYA PRA1ESH FERTILIZER FRO.ECT                                            Table  2
PRDWCTIOL COSTS I DNIPS CAPITAL REUJIRE)I(TS
(IN RS.MILLION)
19B8/87  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  193/94  1994/95  IM/M6  1996/97  199779B  1998/99   1999/2000
PRODUCTION COSTS
VARIA8LE COSTS'
IATURAL GAS                       606      7S1       996    1,056   1h120    1,187    1,250   1t33         1,413    1,498    1.588          1.603
NATURAI. GAS-BOILERS              200      261       329      34S       369       391      4t5       440      466       494       524         555
POINR                              10       12        16        17       18        19       20        21       22        23        25           26
WATER                               I         1        2         2        2         2        2         2         2        3         3            3
CONSAIABLES                        42       55        69        74       78        83       E8        93       98       104       111          117
SAGS                               74       96       t21       128      136       144      153       162       171      182       t93         204
TOTAL  tARIAULE CQSTS             933    tt216    I,m5       1625    1s723   t0826    1,936    2,051    2,172    2,304    2,444             2.588
FIXED cSTS:
SALARIES                           32       34        37       39        41        43       46        49       52        55        sC          62
REPAIRS& NAINTENAICE               84       90        95       t27      135       143      210       223      236       250      265          2S1
PIWR                                9       10        10       11        11        12       13        13        14       IS        16          17
OVERIEAD                           99      105       Ill       118      125       132      140       149      157       167       177         187
SALES FOENSES                      35       37        39       41        44        46       49        52       55        59        62          66
DEPRECIAIION                     467       467       467      467       467       467      467       467      467       467      467          467
TOTAL FIXED COSTS                 726      743       759      803       823      843       925       953      98I    1,013    1,045         1.080
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS            1.659    1,959    2,292    2.428    2,546    2,669    2,861    3004    3.153    3,317    3.409              3.668
NOSING CUPITAL
CUtRRET ASSETS.
OPERATING CASM                      9       12        15        15       16        17       18        20       21        22        23           25
INUENTORIES:
RAW iATERIALSMI                16        21        27       28        38        32       34        36       38        40       43           45
MODS INl PRCESS48(              8        10        13       13        14        15       16        17       18        19       20           21
FINIStlED GDDS(C)             116       134       160      163       173     13        197       207      217       220      230          249
SUBTOTAL                   140       165      200       204       217      230       247      260       273       287      301          315
ACCOt MTS RECEIVABLE08)           2t0      264       320      326       333       340      346       353      360       368       375         382
TOTAL CRRENT ASSFTS              359       441       535      545       56h      587       611       633      654       677      699          722
CRRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLEME:
PDWER                           3                   4        4         4        4         4         5        5         5        5            6
WATER                                                        -              -                  -        -                -
SALARIES I IAGES                5         6         6        6         7        7         8         8        9         9       10           10
BAGS                           12        16        20       21        23       24        25        27       29        30       32           34
CHENICALS I C IABLES            7         9        12       12        13       14        15        IS       16        17       18           20
TOTAL PATABILS                 27        34        42       43        47       49        52        55       59        61       65           70
TOTAL CURRENT LIABIITIES          27        34        42       43        47       49        52        55       59        61       65           70
_Y==         =     cY_==   ===   w===  =====  s-   _====_   c_=  ====   ==-= =   =                              _.=
INCREASE IN1RIING CAPITAL           332       75        86        9        17        19       21        19       17        21        18          18
NOTE
(A) DAMS FOR 45 DAYS AID COUiXAAES FOR 2 MONTHS
(B) RAM IATERIALS FIR t DAY PRODUCT1ON
(C) URA O  25 DAY PROINJTION
(0) UREA OF 30 DAY SALES
(E) CONSUMPTION 1F 60-RAY POER, 30-TAY MA1ER.60-DAT 3ALARY,
60-DAY BAGSs AND 60-DAY CUfICALS
iNDUSTRY PROECTS DEPARTIENI
04/04/84



INDIA-.ADRYA PRADESH FERIJLIZER PROJiECT
DBFT SERVICE SCHEDULE
(IN RS. MILLJON)
1984/85  1985/86 19E6/87  1987/S8  1980/BS  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  i992/9:'  1993/94  1994/95   1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/2000
LONG TERM LOAN
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (12.75%)Z
BEGINNING BALANCE                  -      213   1,353    2,104    2,940    3,i33    3,112    2,977    2s767    2s473  2'179        1,885    1I591    1,297   ]1003         709
ADD .NEU DRAWINGS               213    1,140      7S1      836      193        -        --       -        -       --
LESS:REPAYMENTS                   -        -                 -        -       21      135      210     294      294      294        294      294      294      294        273
ENDING BALANCE                   213    ,353    29104   2,940    3,133   3,112    2,977    2,767   2s473   2s179    1,885          i,591    1,297    1,003      709        436
INTEREST EXPENSES                      -             -        -      387      398     388      366      334      297      259        222      184      147      109         73
SHORT TERN LOAN
LOCAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (17.5Z):'
BEGfINNING BALANCE                 -        -        -        -        -      105
ADD :I.NEW DRINO                   -       -        -        -      210        -
LESS:REPAYMENTS                        -            -        -      105      105
ENDING ALANCE                      -        -        -        -      105        --
.    _  _  _   _   .   _   ~. _ .  ._ _ _.. _.       .. - ----    -  -  --                    -- -- -- -
INTEREST EXPENSES                  -        '        -        -      37       18
INDUSTRY PlOJECTS DEPARTMENT
04/04/84                                                                                                                                                                 m X
Lio



ANNEY q-4
INDJA-MAItIHYA PRAIIESI4 FERT] LIIE.R PROJECT                                     Tbe1
FRO-FORMA INCOMU STATEMENTS
(IN RZ. MILI-IONi
1988/89  1989/90  I1990/91  1991/92  1992/93'  1992/'94  1994/95  1995/916  1996/197  1997/9O  1998B/99   1999/21000
REVENUES
SALES OUANTITY('000 IDNS)
UREA                                471 .1    580.7    689.7    689.7    689.7    689.7    689.7    689.7            697  609     ,7    ,'.9..        689.7
AMMONIA                              1lS.5      1136.6    1   19.8       19 .8  19.8         19.8      19.8      19.     8 19.3      19,50Il.          19.8
RETENTION PRICE(RS./TON)
UREA                                5t0.45    5,486    5)639    5.704    5,i877    6,057    6.161    6).371    66519    6.649    6,891 -              7,j53
AMMONIA                             4o811     4,937    5.07S    5.134   '5.209    5.451    .5.545    5.734    5j930    5.975    6.202                 6,438
SALES REVENUES
UREA                                2.522    3,186    3,889    3.9134    4,053    4,178    4.249    4.374    4,544    4.579    4.753                  4,933
AMMONIA                                605        82       100       102       105)      100       110       114       117       118       1213          127
TOTAt SALES REVENUES                    2.507    3.268    3,909    4.0O'36    4,j1581    4i28i    4.359    4.508    4.i661    4,697    4o876             5060
COST or 5008s S0am0
VARIABLE PRODUCTION COSTS                933    1.216    1.533    1 .6125    1.723    1.026    I             7.36 051    2. 172    2.~ 304   '2.444      2,588
FIXEDI PRODUCTION COSTS                  691       706s      720       762       779       797       876       901       926       954       983         1,014
TOTAL PRODUtCTION COSTS                 1.624    1,9?22 t7253    2,387    2.502    2s623    2.812    2.952    3.098    3.258    7.427                    3,602
GROSS PROFIT                              963    1.3 46    1.)736    1.649    1.6t56    1.i663    1)547    1,556    1.s563    1. 4 3        1.449         1,458
I-ESS:SELLING A AOMN, EXPENS)ES           35        37        .9        41        44        46        49        52        55        59        62            66
OPERATING PROZFIT                         928    1.309    1.6 9 7    1 6011    1,612    1.617    l.498    1.504    1.5081   1,30            1.387         1,392
LESS!INTEREST EXPENSIE'S
INT.ON L.1.LOAN                    387       398       380       366L      334       297       259       222        184       141J      109           73
INT. ON S.T.LOAN                     37       10to-                           -                   -         -         - 
SUIRTOTAL                        424       416       3818      366       334       2927      259       222       184       147       109            73
NFT PRO1FIT IIEFORE TAXIS                 504       893    1.09    1.242    1,278    1,P320    1,739    15282    1 s:124    1.233    1)278                1,319
LESS:TAXES                                -        48       416       395       406i      420       537       556       574       713       7137          762
NET PROFIT AFTER TAXES                    504       845       89,3      847       872       900       702       726       750       520       53957
L-ESSIDIVIOE[NOS                         157       157       157       157       157       157       157       157       157       157       157            79
NET PROFIT AFTER DIVIIrENIS               347       688       736       690       715       743       545       569       5913       163      382           478
RATIOS:
CAPACITY UITILIZATION(Z)                 65.0      80.0      95.0      95.0      95.0      95.0      95-.0     95.0      95.0      95.0      95,0          95.0
OIPERATING PROfFIT/SALrg(%1              35.I?     40.1      42.5      3198 338.8          37.7      34~4      33.4      32.4      29.4      78,4          27.5
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX/SALES(Z)            19.5      25.9/    22.4       21.0      21.0      21.0      16.1      16.1      16.1      11.1      11,1          11.0
PRO)-iT BRE--AK EVEN UTIIIZATI0NtZ)      45,2      4.5.2     44,4      461       45.1      44.0      46.4      455,4     44.5      46.1      45.1          44,3
INDUSTRY PROJECTS, DEPARTMENT
04/04/84



-80 -
INDIA--ADHYA PIRADESOl FERTILIZER PkOJECT                                                                                 ANNEX  9-4
- - _ _........I ..................I........... .Table                                           2
PRO-fORMA lIALANCE SHEETIi
(IN4 RS. MILLION)
1994/85  1985/86  1986/87  170871D   1988/09  1909/90  ¶9190/91  ¶991/92   929   1993/94  1994/95   1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/2000
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
OPERATING CASH                                                                 9        12       15        15        16        17        1s         20       21        22        23          2
SURPLUS CASH                           -.         -702    1,658    2,j642    3,582    4,455    5.234    6,053                                   6,778    7,529    R,046    8,585;         9.24)
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                               -         -                210      264       220       326       333       340      346         353      3560      268       T75         127
INVENTORIES                             -        -         *                 140       165      200       204       217       230      247        260       273       387       301         315
908 TOTAL                                     -.                        ,061    2,099    3,177    4,122       5,028     5941    6,664        7,411    8,103    0,723    9,284         9,962
FIXED ASSETS:
WORK IN PROGRESS                      339    1,999    4*180    5,550           -                   --.-                                                                 --
MON-DEP0ECIA8LE ASSETS                Ili      261       456       030       535       535      535       535       935       535       535       535       525       535       535         535
EDFTREEIADLE ASSETS                                    - -                 5625    5,i625    5,625    5,625    5,625    5,625    5, 625         5,625    9,625    9,62S50,6,25            5,635
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                    450    2,260    4,636    6,0010    6,160    6,160    6,160    6,160    6.160    6.160    6,169            6.160    6,360    6,160    6,160          6, 160
LrSS1)ACC0NULATED OE.PRECIAT1ON         *--                                  460)    1938)  11,407)  11,276)  12.3451  12,014)  (3,283    (3,752)  14,221)  (4,6901   1 5, 159)    (5,628)
NET FIXED ASSETS                      450    2,260    4,636    6.0O00    5,691    9,222    4,793    4,284    3,015    3,346    2,377            2,408    1,939    1,470    1,001            52
TOTAL. ASSETS                            450    2,260    4,636    6.080    6,752    7,321    7,930    0,411    0,836    0,287    9,541             9,019   10,122   10,183   10,285         10,495
LIABILITITES AND1 EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES1
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE-                                -                   -        27        34       42        43        47        49       52         55        59        61        65         70
S1HORT TERM BORROWINGS                  --105                                                     -.        -         -                   -         -         -         -         -           -
CURRENT PORTION OF L.T,DEDT             -         -        -         -        21      135       210       294       294       294      294        294       294       294      273
SODR TOTAL                           -        -                          I - 15    169       2 52      332       341      343       346        349       353      355       330          70
LONE TERN DERT
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA                  212    1,353    2.104    2,940    3,112    2,977    2,767    2,473    2,179    1,085    1,591              1,297    1,003        709      436         436
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        213    1,353    2.104    2,940    2,265    ¶0,46    2,019    2,010    2,520    2,228    T,937             1,646    1,356    1,064         774         506
EQUITY:
PAID-IN CAPITOL                      237       902    2,522    3,140    3,040    7,~140    2,140    3,140    3,140    3~140           J14 0     3,140    2,140    2,140    3,140         3,140
RETAINED EARUNINS                       -                   .        -       342    1.035    1,7)1   '2, 461    3,176    3,919    4,464         5,033     5,626    5,989    6,371        6,049
940R TOTAL                        237       907    2,532    3.340    3,401       4,175    4,911    5,601    6,336    7,059    7,604          0,173    8,766    9,129    9,511         9,909
TOTAl. LIABILITIES 8 EQU0TY              450    2,260    4,636    6,0010    6,752    7.321    7,030    8,411    8.836    9 ,2137    9,541          9,819   10,122   10,193   11,235        10,499
RATIOS:1
CRETRATIO(TIMESI(A1 )                                                       6.9     12.4      12.6      12.2      14.7      17.,3    1.         21,2      23.2     2.4.6     27.5       142,3
CURRENT RATlIO)TIMES)ID -8                                              - *     2.3       2.6      2.1       1,6       1.7       1.7      10.8       1.8       1.9       1.9      2.1        10.3
DEDT:.EOIITY                              47        L0       45        48        47        43        30       22z       28        24        20         16       12        10         7           4
NOTE:
(AOINCLUDING SUIRPLUS CASHl
(DIETCLIIDINO SURPLUS CASH
INDUSTRY PROJFCTS DEPARTMENT
04/04/84



-11-                                                                             ANNEX  9-4
[ND IA -M6014YA rRADESH TPEE fTi[ /R I 1A,J(TJTale
PROD PFORMO PUNDS P7 OW (1l ATFMrNTs
1TN P7~. m91,11N
1984/85  1985/96  1 986/87?  79D7 QTi  799C/P9  lI''           9 19S0  A 1  1' /9e2  I Y  /9?    79/9    19 9 4/195 1996 1(/7             T99         E9      19/2
SOURCES, OP PUNDS
PROM OPERATIONS:
PROFIT APTEP 1A9                                                                  504       845        09/.      047        8/?       q9o ,                  726       750       5290                    55999
ABBIPrPRIP1A1ION                                                                  40        A 9   469       409   4         499,      469        1.          469       469       469        4(          49
408118T. RN L,.T.0489                                                             387       398        3809      36e        374       291       259         222        184        142       19'll,
90947  TNTPRNAi  GENERATION                -         -                          7.797     1,7719     1,29".    I 1692    1.067S     1,066     1,430       1,417      1,493     1,136      1,177       1.099
FROM OTOER, SOURCPSI
E001T9 CONTRIBUTION                     237        679     1.925       60071 
6080NPEO TER     ANS                    71.7      1749       751       9716       193 
08091T TERM BORROWINGS                                                            210
90166 09800, SOURCES                    450     i,pTO      7.7       1,444        403 
TOTAL SOURCES OP P08179                  499      7,919     '.376     1,444      1.B009      T 1,729  1.5       1642,     1625       1 666       .49o      1,417      1,497     1136      1,117        1,999
APPLICATITNS OP PONDS
C881ITA7 EPCOPDITP00957
ACOUISITTRN OP FIXEB ASSETS             47~7    1,725      21050    01,12          s0
INT.0081NC9 SONET.                       73         25       22        291                     -
TOTAI CAPITAL EPEN0881108S              459     l,RT9      2. 17~1   7444          TI                    -                    -         -          -            
DEBT SERVICE.
REPA98089 TOF 7 I.70N8                    -          -         -          -21I                         1297      219       274        294       294         294        294      7,94       294          273
1811. TN 1-.1,60480                                                               397        VT8       008       1O         1T4       29        259         222        104       147       109           73
INT. ON 9,.60485N                                                                  37        18                               - 
TRIAL DEPT SERVICE                                                                424       497        522        7         6771      S91       553         516        478       441       403          340
REPAYMENT OP ST.DTRRROWTIN9S                                                       105        10
INCREASE IN WORRING CAPITAL                                                        332        75         06         9         17        19         21         19         17        21I        10          is
0I9IOPNDS                                                       -          -       197       157        75        792is      192       157       957         157        157       157       1157          79
TOTA41 APPL7ICATIONS OP 70805D           490~    ,919       2,370     1.444      7,048       2/4        766       742        002       767        3          692        652       619       575          443
90UP7 717O   AS                                                                     02       99~6       904      7240        023       1199     1OT          725        791       517        39656
APrrMOJLATTO CASH 1SURPL1S                                                         707     1 ,657i   76 47      7,562     4.495)    5.35 4     0.053       6,770     7,529      3,046     8 , 505      4,241
DEBT SERVICE COERPIAOE(TINES7 )                                                    3.5       4.1        3.2       2.9        2.7       2.0        2.6        2,7        2,9       2.6       2,81         3.2
PASO BREAK POEM TTILIZATION7ZI                                  -          -      7.9        11 .9     71,4      195        377,3     173       39.6        30, 7     37,8       39, I1    3T.2         35,8
INDUSTRY PROJEPTO, BEPARTMENT
04/04/94



- 82 -
INDIA-NATIONAI FrRTJI7ERS I. IMTlEiWNEJW filHIi                                      ANNEX  9-5
- .....    -............. ..................- .--------I -- -T able                       1
CONS1L.JDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(IN RS. MILLTIEIN
ACTUAL                                             PROJE[:TEI,
1980/81  1981/82  1982/8-3  1983/4  1984/75  19f8,J/86  19fl/87  1987/88  19f8 l/89  1989/90  1990/91
RrVENKI S
TOTAL SALES REVENUEC                 l,559    3)197    306f6   4,001)   40150    4,812    4,9,71    5,256    88,23?,  9)271   lP,216
DOsT (IF G(0001  5 OD
VARIAFLE FRODUlClION [:DSTS           829    1,Z7      b7627    2J19W      2,249    2,51O    2,665    2i81?    4,097    4,b22    5,151
I-IXED PROP1UCTION COS15              72.       7h8      653       938       962    1026    1,087    1t2'10    201O)    2,125    1803
TOTAL PRODIUCTION COSIS              1,555    ?,141    2,N15 5   3,13,5     t?11    3,536    3,75       4,107    619)8    60747    6,954
GROSS PROFIT                             4    1,056       781       87?,      939    10276      1,226    1,149    2,083    2,524   3?262
IESS:SELIINl i   APMN. EXPENSIS       104       153      196       22 7      20       ;25        292      31-       315       343       .)6
OPERATING PRO:fIT                     (101)      903      Sf85      646       689      1,001     934       836    1,770    2,131    2,396
AItD :OTHER INCOME                      8        14        17       10         S        10        10        11       11        12        12
l S; INTERFST EXRCNSI:S
INT.ON L.l.LOAN                 260       273       225       191       100       99        93        67       463       473       443
IN1. ON S.1.LOAN                 69        47        34        20        20                 7f0 .1I    8        74        55        57
SUBT0TAL                      329       320      2i9       211       120       119       114        95      537       528       480
NET PROFI  llEFOJII TAXiS             (421)      597       343      445       578      81921       30       7S2    1,244    1,665    2,428
LESS:TAXES                              -                   -                             -        -       293       4(00     504       866
NLT PROFII AFTER TAXES                 421)      597      343       44S       57(1      892       8;'0     459       844    1 561  I1562
1LfSS:0lVIDENDS                                                    137       1 37      137       137       137      294       294       294
NET PRHFI  AFTCR OlVIIIENDS          (421)      597      343       308       441       755       6-13      3T,22    550       867    1t248
RAT 11s"5
OPERATING PROFIT/SALES(Z)             (6.4)    28.2       9.l 91   11        16.4      20.8      18.83    15.9      214       23.,      28 .
NEr PROfIT AFTER TAX/SALES(X)        (27,0)    18.7       11i2     11.1      13;9      1815      14.7       017      10.2     12.5      15.3
INDUSTRY PROJEC1S DEPARTMENT
04/11/34



- 83 -
ANNEX 9-5
INDIA-NATIONAl FERTILIZERS L-IMI1ED,NEW prIiHI                   Table 2
CONSOLTIIATFD BALANCE SHEETS
(IN RS. MTILLiON)
ACTUAL                                         PROJECTED
1930/01  1981/8?  1982/93  1983/84  I984/85  19R5136  1984/87  l'787/88  17813/89  lffl87/0  1990/91
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH                                   28       44        13        13        is       54        12        15    Is257    2,801    4,4?1
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                  253       848       721       700      750       802       8130     875    1O085    1,139    1,19S
INVENTORIES                          582       818    Jt343    1)280    It300    1,270    15280    It300    1,450    1,495    1.550
ADYANCES                              96       141        90        80       35       283       719      414       945       818       688
SUB TOTAL                         959    1,871    2f187    2,07:1    2,150    2,409    2t841    2,304    4,77    S,253    7s904
FIXED ASSETS:
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                 5Y630    5,703    5,753    5t851    4,668    7~197   12)561   14,275   14t465   14,565   14,595
L.ESSACCUMULATEO DEPRECIATION        (950)  (1,477)  (2,007)  (2,538)  (:1,073)  (3,615)  (4t159)  (4,712)  (5j766)  (6,748)  (7,31S)
NET FI-XED ASSETS                  4,630    4,226    3,746    3,313    3p5Ti    5,532    8,402    9,F563    3,499    7,217    7,279
TOTAL ASSETS                          5,/639    6,9097    5,933    5,386    5,745    7,991   11,243   12i361   13,434)  14,07(1  15,183
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                     355       364       584       460      640       610       620       630      677       684       692
SHORT TERM BORROfWINGS               271       J336      2633      253         -        -         -                105-
ADVANCES) OTHlERS                       8        8         8         -                  -         -         -        -.        -
CURRENT PORTION 017 LT.DERT           213      654       '713       64       64      '248       243      248       135       160       235
SUP TOrAL                        8147    1f,36      1,748      977       704       851       868      278      9117       844      927
LONG TERM TIFPT
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA                2,403    1,949    1,036         972    1,121    24013    2,Y516,   3,104    3,162    3,002    2,767
TOT'AL LIABILITIFES                    3,450    3,311    2,804    1,949    1,8025    2871    3t384    3,s9112    4,079    3,846    3,649
EQUITY 1
PAID-IN CAPITAL                    2,743    2,743    2,743    2t743    2,785    3.'230    5.275    5t472    5,883    5,883    5.883
RETAINED EARNINGS                    (554       43       386       694    113 i     l51890    2 i5814   2,913    3i474    4,341    5,i606
SUB TOTAL                       2i189    2,786i   3,129    3Y437    3t?920   F5420    79859    8.385    9,357   10,224   11,439
TOTAL LITABILITIES % EQUJITY          5,619    4,9097    5,933    5 ,31(6    5,745-   7,991   1 1,i243   12,367   13,434   14,070   1 3,183 B
RATIOS 1
CURRENT RATJO(TIMES) (A)                 1.1      1.4       1.2       2.1       31.1     2.8       3.3       3.?      5.2       7.4       8,5
CURRENT RATTO(TIMls)(P)                  1l1       1.4      1.2       241       3.1      2.8       3.3       3.2      3.8       4.1       3.7
DERT:EgUITY                               56        48       38        23        23       31        26        29        246      24        21
NOTE'
WAINCLUDING SURPLUS CASH
(B)EXCLUDINC SURPLUS3 CASH
INDUSTRY PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
04/04/84



- 84 -
INDIA--NATJONAI.. FFR[iu]7ERS LIJMITED, NW ElHllIJ
..........  -  1 -.- ..    ... ......--   ------ -    ---------A N N EX        9-5
CONSOLIIDATEP FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS                                                    Table  3
(IN RS. MILLION)
ACI UAL.                                       PROJECTED
1980/81  19C1/1182  19112/83  1983/84  19114/115  1985/86  19fi6/87  1987/88  1988/89  1 989/90  1990/91
SOURCECS oF FUNDS
FROM OPERATIONS(
PR)1:1T AFTER. TAX                 1421)      597       3431      445       570       892      830       459       844    A 10.11    1.62"
AODDIEPREC,IATION                   525        "I27     5 2 9     552      535       542       544       683    1,134    IiI12         498
AllOIINI, (IN L.,1 LOANS            260       2173      2 2,5     191       100        991      93~       6?       463,      473       443
AOD:INT, ON S.,ILOANS               69        47        34        "I0       20        20-I      21       23        74        5 5       37
TOTAL INTERNAL GENERATION           43:1    1,444    1.131    1.188    1,23:1    1,553       1,488    1,237    2~565    2s801    2t740
FROM OTIIR SOURCES:
EQUITY CONTRIDUTION                  50                             -        42      250    1,625        199)         -        -
L-ONG TERM LOCANS                     -         -                   -       213    I12140      751       836       193--
SHIORT TERM BORROWINES             2144        64         -         .         -         -                          210
TOT[AL OTHIER SOURCES               294        64                          2 55    1,9       23706    1 ,035       401!
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS               727    1 60P,   1,131       I1[t88    1/488    2 ,9 43    3 .114    2,272    2.968    2/8 101       A 20
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL FXPENOITURES                38        73        5r0       ?9      817    2, 529    3/364    1,714         190       100        30O
DEBT SERVICE:
RLPAYMENT OF L-.1-LOANS             2 39      213       654       93         6 14      6~!     248       248       248)      135       160
[NT. ON L.T.LOANS                   26110    273       225       191       100        99        93        67       463       473       443
INT. ON S.T.LFIANS                   69        47        34        20       20        20        21        28        74        55        37
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                  568       533       91-3   1.124       184       lOT1      342.      34.1      78~       463       640
REPAYMENF OFr S,I,8ORROWINGS           -         -        73        10       25~3                  -         -      105       1/15-
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPTIAL.         154       886       126      (1821       95       550       431       75       352)       95       1 06
OSOEMOHS                                         *-        -       1:17      1,17     13;7      13~7      137       294       294       294
TOTAL APPL-ICATIONS OF FUINDS        762    1 i492    1,142    1/188    1,486    29?0~4,   3,906    2,269    1.726   I1,257    (.070
LNCREA5II IN CASHi                   1351       16       1311                  2       3S9      142)        3    1.242    1,544    1,470
ACCUMULATED CASH                      28        44        13        13        15        54        12       15j   1,257    2,801    4.471
RATIOS:
DEBT SERVICE COVERASF1TIMES)         0.7       2.9       1.2       1.1       7. 4     9.4       4.3       3.8       3.5j      4.,5      4.5
INDUSTRY PROJECTS DIEPARTMENT
04/16/84I



INDIA-IAHDHYA PRADEPl FERTf II ZER PRO).JECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (BEFORE TAXES)
(IN RS. MILl ION)
YEAR                       1983/64  1904/85  1985/06  1986/87  1987/f8E  19E8/B9  1989//90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   1994/95  1995/96  l¶96/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/2000
REVENUES
QUANTITY:UREA('OOOMT)             -                                          471.8    5e0.7    689.7    689.7  6i9.7    609.7            689.7    689.7    689. 7    639.7    689.7         689.7
:AMMONIA('OOOMT)         -         -        -         -               13.5      16.6     19.3      19.8     1?.8      19.8       19.8      19.8      19.8     19.8      19.8        19.8
PRICE:UREA(RS./MT)                -        -         -        -         -    5,345    5,486    5,639    5,704    5,877    6,057          S,6SI    6,371    6.589    6,639    6,391          7,153
:AMMONIA(RS./MT)            -         -                            -    4,311    4,937    5,075    5,134    5,289    5S451         5545    5,734    5,930    5,975    6,202           6.438
TOTAL REVENUES                    -        -         -        -         -    2,587   31268    3,989    4,016    4,15B         4,286      4,359    4,503    4,661    4,S97    4,876          5.060
COSTS
CAPITAL INVESTNENTS(A)            -      437    1,725    2,150    1,153          80                       -             -         -          -         -        -         -         -      (1, 095)
WORKING CAPITAL(D)                         -         -                  -       332       75        n6         9       17        19         21        19       17        21        18        (652)
FIXED PRDN. COSTS(C)                       --        -                  -       257      274       290      334       354       374        456      484       512       544       576         611
VARIABLE PRllN. COSTS                                -                          95.      l,216    1,S33    1,625  1, 723    1,926        1,9M     24051    2,172    29304    2,444          2.588
TOTAL COSTS                       -      437    1.725    2,150    1,153    2,602    1,565    1.909    1.968    2.074    2.219            2,413    2,554    2,701    2,869    3,038          1,452
CASH FLOW
NET CASH FLOW(D)                        (437)  (1,725)  (2.150)  (1,153)        985    1,703    2,080    2,068    2s064    2,067         1,946    1,954    1,960    1,328    1,338          31608
NET CASH FLOW(E)                  -     (408)  (1.507)  (1.755)    (941)        758    1,237    1,42S    1,336    l,258    1,189         1,056    1,000       946       833       790       1,463
RETURN ON INVESTMENT   16.610b
NOTE:
(A) RECOVERY OF RESIDUlAL VALUE AT THE END Or lIFF--
NONDEPRECIAlE ASSETS AND lOX OF DEPECIASkE ASSETS
(B) RECOVERY OF WORKING CAPITAL AT TNE END OF l?FF
(C) EXCLUDING DEPI-ECIATION                                                                                                                                                              M X
(D) CURRENT PRIC E                                                                                                                                                                           o
(El CONSTANT PRICE (04/1984=100)                                                                                                                                                            a'
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS tFPARTMENT
04704/84



INDIA MADHYA PRADESH FERTIL llER PRO.JECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (AFTFR TAXES)
(IN RS. MILLION)
YEAR                      1984/85  19115/06  1?84/07  197/871   1988/19  1989/90  1990/91  tSI,9,1992/93  1993/94  1994/?5   1995156  1996/97  1'97/98  1i9'8/99  1999/2000
REVENUES
QUANTITY:UREAWPOONT)                                              471.E  5E0.7.  689.7 b89.7    689.7    689.7    689.7              689.7    639.7 S39.7    689.7           689.7
:AMlONIA('OOOMT)             -        -             -     13.5      16.S     19.8     19.3      19.8     19,8     19.8       19.8     19.8      19,8     19.8        19.8
PRICE:UREARS./T                  -        -        -         -   5,345    5,4186    5639    5K704    5,B77    6,057    6,161         6,371    6,589    6,639    6,891        7,153
:AKMONIA(RS./MT)           -         -        -        -    4,811    4,937    5,075    5,134    5,289    5,451    5,545        5,734    5,970    5,975    &,202        6,438
TOTAL REVENUES                   -        -        -              2,587    3.26S  ;IS89    4iQ36    4,158    4W286    4,359         4,508    4,661    4,697    4i476        5,060
COSTS
CAPIlAL INVESTIENTS(A)         437    1,725    2,150    1,153        80             -             -        -         -        -          -        -         -        -      (1,095)
WORKIN6 CAPITAL(B)               -                  -        -      3.52      75        86        9       17        19       21         19       17        21       13        (652)
FIXED PRON. COSfS(C)             -        -        -         -      257      274      290       334      354       374      456        484      512       544      576        611
VARIABIE PRON, COSTS             -             -             -      933    1,216    1,533    1,625    1,723    1,825    1,936        2,051    2,172    2,304    2,444        2,588  (
TAXES                            -        -                  -        -       48      416       395      406      420       537        556      574       713      739         762
TOTAL COSTS                   417    1,725    2,150    1,153    1,602    1,613    2,325    2,363    2,500    2,639    2,950         39110    3,275    3,S82    3,777        2,214
CASHl FLOW
_ ==== ~====
NET CASH FLOW(D)              (437)  (1,725)  (2,150)  (1,153)      985    1,655    t,664    1,b73    1,658    Is647    1)409        I,398    1,386    1,115    1,099        2,846
NET CASH FLOUIE)              (408)  (1,507)  (1,755)    (941)      758    1,202    1,140    1,081    1,010        947      765        715      669       508      472       1,154
RETURN ON INVESIMENT   12,955Z
NOTE: 
(A) RECOVERY OF RESIDUAL VALUE AT Tllf END OF LIFE--
NONDEPRECIABLE ASSETSS AND tOt Olr DEPECIABLI ASSETS
(8) RECOVERY OF WORKING CAPITAL AT THE ENIND OF ILIFE
(C) EXCLUDING DEPRECIATION
(D) CURRENT PRICE
(F) CONSTANT PRICE (04/11984=100)
INDUSTRIAL PROJECIS DEPARTMFNT
04/04/84



- 87 -
ANNEX 10-1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Capital Cost
1.        The economic capital cost of the Project is based on the base
financial capital cost expressed in April 1984 prices, after: (a) deducting
import duties and local taxes on equipment and other items, and (b) adding
the cost of building the captive water reservoir and the canal linking it
to the Project site. A standard conversion factor of 0.8 was applied on
the local currency components of the capital cost. The following table is
a summary of the adjustments made to financial capital costs, showing the
phasing of expenditures:
Financial Capital Cost                                   Economic
Project     Water Reservoir   Economic Capital           Capital Cost
Base Costa/    and Canal            Cost  b/        in 1984 US$ million c/
(in April 1984 Rs million unless otherwise stated)
1983/84              -             33                27                       2.6
1984/85            434             60              415                      40.7
1985/86          2,211             17            1,646                     161.4
1986/87          2,118              -            1,570                     154.0
1987/88            397              -              258                      25.3
Total            5,159             110            3,916                     384.0
a/   Base Project Capital Cost including 5% physical contingencies.
b/   Shadow priced by excluding taxes and using SCF of 0.8.
c/   US$ = Rs 10.2.
B.   Working Capital
2.        The economic working capital has been calculated as the
incremental requirements the Project will impose on the total working
capital requirements for the country. Therefore, accounts receivable/pay-
able and cash requirements have been omitted as they do not represent costs
incurred by the economy but merely instruments of "transfer of obliga-
tions"; finished goods inventories have also been omitted since, in this
case of import substitution, the inventory of urea produced by the Project
substitutes for that of imported urea and does not increase the country's
total inventory. Economic working capital requirements, to be built up
over the first three years of plant operation, have thus been taken as
follows (in April 1984 prices and adjusted by the SCF):



- 88 -
ANNEX 10-1
Page 2 of 3
Economic Working Capital
in million Rs   in million US$
(a) Raw Materials
Bags (30 days of consumption)                      7.5             0.7
Chemicals (90 days of consumption)                13.0             1.3
(b)  Goods in Process
3 days of variable production costs               13.3             1.3
Total Economic Working Capital              33.8              3.3
(as of 1990/91)
C.   Revenues
3.        Economic prices for urea were projected by using the latest
projections for international prices (FOB Europe), prepared by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division, plus marine freight (of
US$52/ton in 1984), and port handling charges (US$15 equivalent/ton) and
rail freight to Madhya Pradesh (US$18 equivalent/ton). Marine and rail
freight are assumed to increase in real terms in line with international
energy costs. The economic value of surplus ammonia is assumed at 90% of
the economic value of urea. The following table summarizes economic price
computations and projections per ton of urea for several key years,
together with those of economic project revenues:
Projected Economic Urea Prices
(in April 1984 US dollars)
1988/89  1990/91  1995/96  1999/2000
FOB Europe, bagged                        216       260       270      277
Marine freight to Bombay                   51        53        65       77
Port handling, storage
and material losses                    15        15       15        15
Rail freight to Madhya Pradesh             18        18        23       26
Economic price at factory site            300       346       373      395
Sales volume (in '000 t of urea)          471.8    689.7    689.7    689.7
D.   Operating Costs
4.        Natural Gas.  The economic value of natural gas is assumed to be
equivalent to that of fuel oil based on its calorific value. The
international price of fuel oil is expected to move in line with
international crude oil prices, as currently projected by the Bank's
Commodity Studies and Projections Division, taking into account
product/crude price ratios projected on the basis of expected worldwide



- 89 -
ANNEX 10-1
Page 3 of 3
fuel oil supply and demand. Accordingly, fuel oil is estimated to have a
value (CIF Bombay) of US$161/ton in April 1984 prices as of 1988/89. After
taking into account forecast fluctuations of real term international energy
prices as well as the rail transport cost to the Project sire of USS5 per
ton of fuel oil, the economic cost in 1988/89 translates into US$145 per
1,000 Ncm. Thereafter, projected international energy price levels are
estimated to rise, with the result that by 1990/91, the economic price of
gas would be US$152, and by 1995/96, US$204 per 1,000 Ncm. The following
table summarizes these calculations and projections:
Economic Value of Natural Gas
Actual                Projected
1999/
1983/84  1988/89  1990(/91  1995/96   2000
Crude Oil (US$/ton,
FOB Arabian Gulf)                 220       216       225       275       322
Fuel Oil (US$/ton,
CIF Bombay)                       160       161       169       229      268
Fuel Oil Equivalent Economic
Value of Natural Gas, trans-
mission cost (in US$/'000 Ncm)    n.a.   145          152       204       237
Annual gas consumption of
the Project (in million Ncm)        n.a.   395.6    587.2    587.2    587.2
Annual cost of natural gas consumed
by Project (US$ million)            n.a.    57.8       72.7    119.7    139.5
5.        Utilities, Bags and Chemicals.  The economic costs used for
utilities such as purchased power, bags and chemicals are derived from the
financial costs by deducting local taxes of an average 10% and applying the
SCF of 0.8.
6.        Fixed Costs comprising labor, repairs and maintenance, overhead
and selling costs were based on financial costs and adjusted by a 0.8 SCF.
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA-MADHYA PRADESHi FERTI'IZER PROJFIT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CAI.EILATION-PASE CASE
(IN APRIL 1984 US  MIl[l ION)
YEAR                               1983/J4  1784/85  1985/56  1986/87  1987/3p  1988/8,9  I989/?9  1990/91 1 991/'   1992/93  1993/94   194/95  19957%6  1996/97  1997/98  1996/99  1999/2000
BENEFITS
UUANTITY:UREAUOOOIIT)                     -         -        -          -        -    471.B    5e0.7    689.7 6489,            689,7    t89,7       639.7 .789.7    $89.7    689.7    i,89.7             689-7
:AMhONIA('OOOMT)                 -         -        --        -         -      13.5      16.6      17.8      19.8      19.8       9,I8      19.8      19.8      19.8      19.8       19.8        19.8
ECONOMIC VALUE:UREA(SSMmT)                     -        -          -             -    299.6    322.1    346.3    3S1.2    35$,2    .61.4            366.6    372.1    377.6    333.3    389.1            3 75,0
:AMMONIA(US/HT)                -              -         -         -    269.8    239.9    311.7    316.1    320,6    325.3           3299,    334.9    339.8    345.0    350.2            355.5
TOTAL BENEFITS                            -        -         -          -        -    145.1    191.9    245.0    248.5    252,0    255.7            259.4    263.3    267.2    271.2    275.3            279.5
COSTS
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS(A)                 2.6      40.7    161.4    154.0        25.3         -         -         -         -         -         -           -         -         -         -                 (Z6.41
WORKING CAPITALID)                                  -        -         -         -       2.5       0.4       0.4         --                  -           -         --                            -        (3.3)
FIXED  COSTS(C)                                -             -                   -      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17,2      17.2        17r2     17.2      17.2       17,2      17.2        17.2
NATURAIl GAS COSTS                                                                      57.3      72-7      ((8.8     94.2      96.7    101.S       113.7    119.7    124.5    129.4    134.5            139.5S
OTHER VARIABLE  GOSTS                     -         --       -                   -       6.9       8.6      10.2      10-2      10.2      10.2        10.2     10.2      10.2       10.2      10.2        10.2
TOTAl. COSTS                           2.b      40.7    161.4    154.0        25.3      84.4      98.9     Ib1.4    121.6    124.t    129.0         141.1    147.1    151.9    156,8   -1619             125.2
CASH FLOU
NET CASH FtOU                         (2.6)   (40.7)  l161.4)  (154.0)   (25-3)    60.7           93.0    128.4    126,9    127.9    126.7          118.3    116.2    115.3    114.4    113.4            154.3
RETURN ON INVESTMENT - 18.560Q
NOTE:
(A) RECOVERY OF RESIDiJAL VALIUE AT THE END OF lITl F
(l) RECOVERY OF WORKING CAPITAL AT THE END OF LIFE
(C) EXCLUDING DEPRECIATION
H'
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS BEPARTMENT
04/04/84



INDIA - MADHYA PRADESH PERTILIZER PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVINGS
(in April 1984 US$ million)
Inflow/Savings                            Outflow
Import                      F.E.      F. E. Interest                      Annual
Substitution               Component of       During         Debt               Net
Year       Loans   (Urea, Ammonia)    Total  Capital Cost  Construction   Service  Total  Savirgs
1984/85    20.8                           20.8        24.4           2.2                    26.4     (5.8)
1985/86   103.4                         103.4        115.9           5.7                   121.7   (18.3)
1986/87    62.5                          62.5         78.2          12.1                    90.3   (27.8)
1987/88    11.9                          11.6         13.4          14.7                    28.1   (16.5)
1988/89      1.6        141.2           142.8          1.6                         13.8    15.4   127.4)
1989/90                 187.1           187.1                                      14.1     14.1   173.0
1990/91                 239.3           239.3                                      16.1    16.1   223.2
1991/92                 242.8           242.8                                      16.8    16.8   226.0
1992/93                 246.4           246.4                                      16.1    16.1   230.3
1993/94                 250.0           250.0                                      14.9     14.9   235.1
1994/95                 253.7           253.7                                      13.4    13.4   240.3
1995/96                 257.6           257.6                                      12.1    12.1   245.5
1996/97                 261.5           261.5                                      10.8    10.8   250.7
1997/98                 265.5           265.5                                       9.7      9.7   255.8
1998/99                 269.6           269.6                                       8.6      8.6   261.0
1999/2000               273.8           273.8                                       7.7      7.7   266.1
2000/01 &                 -                -                                       47.1    47.1   (47.1)
thereafter
Total 199.9      2,888.5          3,088.4        233.5          34.7         201.2   469.4 2,619.0
Industry Department
March 1984



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
Projections of Nitrogen Fertilizer
Demand and Production
12
11
10                                                              IBRD BASE DEMAND PROJECTION                           LOWER DEMAND
(D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTION__--
9 
z
0    8                           FAI DEC 83 DEMAND ESTIMATE
z                                                                                                                                                                       .
18/7  -                                                                                                    PROJECTFD PRODUCTION
z
0
z
0 6-
4-
3
1982/83        1984/85        1986/87        1988/89        1990/91         1992/93        1994/95        1996/97         1998/99
YEAR
Note  I Plants in operation. sanctioned to be implemented & the MP Project
2 Including five additional urea plants. 
Industry Department
March 1984
World Bank -25058



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FEIRTILIZER PROJECT
Waste Water Treatment System Flow Diagram
(iy Waste from Compressors                  5m3/hr                                    I
5m3/hr            .                                            1    OIrp              
AMMONIA          Boiler Blow Down                        5m3/hr
PLANT              5m3/hr
Coollng Water Blow l)own                  712m3/hr                                                                  34Om3/hr
712m3/hr. 
Floor WashIN)s         1m3/hr 
11.8% NI-3' 9% Urea, 1 m3h                                                                               C N
UREA          Process Condensate       60m3/hr
pLANT   20Dppm Urea, 50ppm NH3 60m3/hr
Alkall                                                       Aocbd                     ers
Tank and Pump Dralns n
50,000ppm Urea, 10,000ppm NH3             61m3/hr
1 m3/clavy                            _
_         77m/h 1                     77m3/hr        _         -528m3/hr
AmobFbrTsd 
l hmcc                 mok tlpo                                       LlquorTank 
Alkall Waste               16m3/hr           Sump                  Amoi St_pp_                                          Return Sludge
D.M.        0.3S NaOH 16m3/hr
PLANT            Acid Waste                 14m3hr                                                                                                   . C       , _le
0.6 H2So4 14m3/hr
|  cen GrtChamber           |~                                    
j TOVVNSHIP|    Sanitary Sewagei Cabnc9ug| _
|SEWAGE |60)m3/hr                                                                                                         r I, I                         NHitriikwn
j   RnolChrlTer    Aeration5_||                                  .
_   e     n    it r l            n      c         M         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dnitiicto
Sludge Drylng     Sludge                       345rn3/hr Tn 
Bed                   528m3hr                                                                                              |
| Delay Pond                                                                                     r.
To Surface Water Body                                                                                                                            | 
Industry Doartment                           873m3/hr                                                                                                     Worid Bank - 25156
March 1984



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
Project Execution Organization
|  NH Mcinraingi|
DMroctonon
Group                                                                                                                        - Errp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gnea  cice  0uatraeFcilitie
(Ploect)                                                                   UniEtp
PoHeadeo Ara                                                                                                           - eid     A sdot  s i sOf
Coordinutlon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Miteac
antdiMntitorin Fsncnce                                                                    Construction                 Administrution
Project MonitoandMoniinin
I Manpo nevelgment & roining
_  t/Me-/Recruithrnelo
Electrical/lnstnrusmentRsloion
Planningc                     Ae Pslc                    Desig Peviewss-Bdes  ot  o                                   Construction iSopeiviovionen
Moniordingto                GidEvauaton  GO retortap MaeiasCmmten/xenioroitrn
Group                                                         AraroetGrouP osto r -1 Rsi
TContractinalatio  - TestingPocedExpunlate  Coctlrtes 4g
l   I   l   I   i                I                                                 |                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FcxtonryApprovals
Process Arex Ammoniai                                       Atrnonia                                                    AmxpAtunia Inssectionac
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ upIe                               Maul                      -Dsu eetIHnln
uroo.   ~ ~ ~ ~ TfWintsort srsace
O| si                       DestesnAre|  Ureo   j        M   t)rao   ic at A                              t        - Cns/ntragct
I- ItatutOry  Iollow-up         Procure Laboratory                                        1 Alt Financial  n gFacilites
- fProject MonitIsinqction                                                                                                StCdtm & PowEr D
M v' I   Progress Reports         5teo(m &                |       fste                                                       owniship.
-Systems                          Power                  l                 l                                          | Other 1Wuidings  i
-Manpower Plorining
Incentive Schertmes
M   Othe1 Oftsites 9Cr/Mechnicl
|& I ntrcist(ucthi re  |E e ctico l/ lnstrurnents
ICleararnce- |D  ~fesignR[eviews                                                -        f3udgets, Cash flow         - Construction Superrsiofi/
ICo ordinatiol   |          -E1id tEvaluation. P O's      -Pre-Stortup Materials       -Commilment/Expenditure          Monitorrng
}         I     ~     ~~~~~~~~ -Contract Finalization  --Testing Procedures        ot Funds                     - Contaocting
txpe-dite Vabrication/       Startup/Operciting         -Fxpenditure Monitoring        - Equijprnent Inspaection &
Supplies                     Manuals                    -Disbursements                   Handliing
-Dosign/Enginoerirng        -Manpower TraininQ             Mairitenonce of Accounts     - Cons./Contract
S101utory                     Follow-up                    Procure LbobrDatory        -All Financial                    Interfocing
introstructure               Inspection Coordination        Fquiprnent                   Disciplines                   Certifvring Bilis
Word( Bank -25115'
industry Department
Marchi 1984



I N D I A
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
NFL   Abb ....    f                A.-  2
MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS IN INDIA
N I-g-           ph-,k-
0
fb)
0    C i-, T.-
HIMACHA                                                                    N, -.1 C.P-l
1;   N.hgal PRAOF3H
NFLE6,
-3e
P A K I S T A N                                                                               c
Hi
UTTAR
..,,NEPAL
BHUTAN'
PRA DESH                                                        -L?
v                                                                                                                                                  I- AA    i A 'VI?
NarnrupAHKL,-
[EL
L.ckn         Fcl
CIGor.khpu,
Gow             Kwp.,
SCF                                                                   HFCL
ID Kt. _-,-I
Udaipur                                                 FFCO
NoPhuipur       3   tl  P
,;BANGLADESH
FCIE
s                  IFFCC
1\   FFCCOoKandlo    Kalol DE                                                                                       Durgapur,, -ST   1-7
Bhopalo                                                       K'1.11,     Az
11jYARA7                                                IIIADHYA
IR 4 0   .5 H                                                C.1,, tt.
Indore
S' F c0 8 91, I, d
111%A,                                                                                 Ro.rkeia"EAII 'JPAIjLq                           VrBURMA
co                                                                                    F C
ch
ORISSA                                                                zo--
er)
Al A H A e A S H T R A
Talolo                                                                                                goy
ThN Vatihevl       DFIC
L
Of
ma                                                                   &,?go
FCI
Hydera                           kapatnom
AAIDH
It
7    PRAOF5H
OA
KARNATAKA
/M Y50,9F)
Mangalore
4CFL        E ngoloreO
ey,,e]
0
A                                                              NLC
TAMIL iVADU
Io-
0         loo       200        3m
c
KIL                     200   30    4ga   59   sp
tin
Til
SRI LANKA
X
P






82'                                 88
I N D I A
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT                                                                                                                           3-
NFL-EXISTING AND FUTURE MARKET AREAS                                                                   t E-ff.3g0oee
AND                                                                      '    iE.p.nded -oreef,tg
MARKETING  OFFICES                                                                          ECort  heod p
7Q0fnogar 0L9h 7                                n8 ff0 F oOOfO    000d0fr"   A   oA off rs
ioeo  AOOeOeffOOf 
JAMd                                                     Plo-d f,-
AFGHANISTAN                                        t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~K A S H M I R    croas h  en                t    Rgoolffe
AFGHANISTAN                                                                 K$~I                          000*SfffOOC             £      ofo.fo
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~00f .f ,1 feOeOf                         J  -     7,__        aXd Projlecx piont
z                            >:=  ,,                         . fi P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 r CmdoffffOfOO Of  0  Oiler selecled eeown nd vi oges
-32.'                                                                              HLMACHAL                                       -         Poos
.. / . P ~R A D E S h.
F - o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 00000ff,lo     /
KolKporb  °]99sJIIChandqa,h                        i
P A  K I  S T A  N                        nov/s N    
5r gongono K;,>ksEei nU r T A R 
zo)-  4       R~~  Y A fN  A ; sM>frs
r / 9 ° \\r 71 MeZdru2 / j/ ~~~~~K IOMET'RS 0                              WL       200       'co       400
To00o,eoO, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IF                                                  c               0
DEL R oh  g            2Sodabod                vlLEL J              100       0    200
-20'                                                                                                                                                N  E PAL2'
R  a        jTA    T                      d           fA  A                   £    H H       A                                          '.00
24'
70-r                                                                -'0 - ff  AL<n-f- X  ffi  aR
-Zh ,,. TAhmdvfodX                                                                     7   4Xf  4
:,jToAbmodobodf  0   I /    00
20 ~ ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         0
. = T  G U J A R A T   h    o        p        u      l          >70bolpDr                  A           < /           '' !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0170    f    0
ANDHRA                                        o
P R A D     E  S  H
707                                                                                78' r.






IN DIA
MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT
Proposed Plant Location and Layout
PROPOSED PLANT LOCATION                                                                                        6-ho,
--;;  Pio0fiediu-pri;e=:0-0  i::: X :;GUNA;
1'ropQsed Unrfd         ;45oeC
4erfizer pion s-it:e
Acces< roa d    _--
-                                                                    Baarrnggarh
;       Say qcer road L r                                                                         /: t:s  er;
0 < ~~~~~~~~~Ruthia  >\\ V  
CE            ~~~Biftaipur >        3       /            'd\XA    '- 
PLANT  IE@                               r-    F                <    
ing                                                                     a rILngETERh 0     2               \
-4--H- Ro'4w ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    Rohogrl
~~~w ~ J0g-                                                                          MIE  0              2             4             6   
mapad d nd s/ve.ly tor tnt |'m ' p a .e= d                                                                                       
mt?he s  o   h Wor, d tan  ta nk jexc  ?u e:,v e?  e:
sna !ne inhernar,o fl Ff,fnnC                                                                                        nt- I              I
CcrporsLpTcdfamtm  ,0  0~
p .rtoand whe dC9nksoe a,ind IhfJET~ 6\ 85/                  *1g0gr}                                          ;   
Of nYhrlitOYZ;lrY   t1   e/                               ::       i:  =     :  ;~~~~~~~pf n
Palo?sl.n PfOcp.ne ol~  250k s,dh
ofa"y ?erflo~~y .'rE,er
L Ch bor'tem es 'a                    J ' ,no
iesei __ __ __e___ _________/ e:tElfhornge yord
r                                                         ,                  1~~~~~~~~~~ PROPOSED PLANT LAYOUT
ofX                  |f'--1za*IS1tyOsition-i'f-it              '
E~~~~~~~a_- L!~/o                                                      -Pirtcopuciwl
/turt   ofic                              Pian|tserv ice roads'*T        -
l                                                        '   41t,                       I Co=too'od 'o I  '  P1~tt=ntI  .itne4s,.-i
B'~~__                                          -2            '                      :-' E?- R  'aif i4n fo  KOT&o
!  tZ nSt g hoCjemecei                  * -                                          L     Pln   VadUOrae tfOfl WI 8a
,ify    DdAIEn_ergeecy 
t . Sten             iefsLt geeo ffi   c_Ator  5           r     R1i ss     I          ;;*:.:,0Z
Paeeer~ ~ ~ ~       ~ Air$ 'X                                                           , /sr, -0  ssrg  lr
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
iBysree                     ~~~~~      ~      ~~~~Delhi  _
I  _________                                                  aria      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
Canteen                 IBt9t~~A.o0nia~ 
I                      off  ~~~~~~~Woeches 4






G U  ARAT                                                                                                                                82                                   860
Ki'iQi' stnTni35S I.    :i          ;0.:                                      NJ D  I AN
Aroun t aa a    5                                     MADHYA PRADESH FERTILIZER PROJECT                                                    Fertilizercomplexes:
/rLe:  .    Ast;    rProposed  Fertilizer Complexes Based                                           2   Proposed under project
on  South  Bassein  Gas                          a   ~~~~Planned by government
Ph  uS  /  {'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      lb~~~~i   Under canstruction
,      S    ter .   5-*AN/  i~ ):      =
53RIsXTURE                                                                                                               Propused route ol gas pipeline
B  i   rlCI   $SS   \  8ASSELN - 00                        Se4pO,pdb4The reau_    s  # dkfs    excts.eeh S<u th   ,Fri.~      '               r * *VO.(by governmeet)
3i, _01 fTilsENi-DiL 1;  i: ;IE U C-U                                                    i     =   ;   ~~~~~~~~~~Ro ds
&OiEAOvr?41lltE?i   iXi  IsoFU3FissE;                                                  v    i   eeo.     'Railways
t; :,   <  j 0 ?. it :<cTtRes  : g  V~~PAK I STA  N            /~{        /ACAZ               \*National capital                                                          3
UNbiG ERilOUF   PBSEfLOFfOEi                                                          RA   z. SH                                         o Selected towns Cind villages
t::; ':GAS DEv:EXOPMt-NT13ROJECir
r  Potenta h-ol. nd/-r 0ab reevsga                Og       . ft         ,      .t          .        -.J\
soxucniwe    I                 r,to   IVJ    9 'S 
F:t PrOeE FeiFnq on! ; ;0 i                                     7CNJB;Codgr 
9~~~~~~~~~~~
Prqgs  Larforms.i    ,f::.t                                 -g t     
.iurel                                                       HARYANA                                 iILOETE00 200                                         300        4
:; ;    LJnde ceintLction       ; --    I                            -   s                       oM.-tL                             MILE5 n               IC              2L0
*  g:Eilgirg;.:      Gi SASE  --                                                                                                  Roads°f  s ' 2 .OMrdsu 
D -   i EY.stch;,t    y                         TA                                                                       -   - - Railways
- ~ ~    ~ ~ jt -IDAet3ur>                      vi N: L"    H/M                         DMA /ho  teu                               ®  Naioa  caia                               32RRRA D 
UNE   SOUT   iAsoler  OF ORE                                                 RA *E/                1                             0 Seece   tiy  /Lukowns and v,.Fillages=:
_ Ptial Rohspk n                                        - rawen                  r C                        ,
r                                        .:e -nos meerDvstasn  asos dH/ jdhoeur          .,
Proven e36u -ra Q gas r-WeI_esV/                                                                               -
6     Prorcr teone-g   KawaPrr(    }                                                      's  y    /UNJAB  onRo
- Exiti t              crufe off.             28a-  -     A                           H      Y -  At  B RArat z. p                            N   E  P A
Under ,oostrb Gti an             R                                                                                                 S li.-h,
crude asS  5-L,,i-  - g -                                                     Babrala                 USha loahaepu      s.-- i   '     H
-  :    i . : i. i. - -0 1 F:3Fi J£TAw6  ;    ' i: fl   .  ,.'  . '                                    /          '   ta F.ii.bqd
~~~~~~~~~~o.2Mi;0,00        ;.12   tgk..   ti  'Q...._-< A' HA  J A    S Tf H  A  N  J                               W rk>-o> 7
26 isataxcal gas .tCexr A?.                                                                 ala  a                 K-            NE0  ' '      |   ',,;.     ,f    bo Ai.'-ishp AL
Stareboiundar2                                                                                       U  Tf  AR0                   ER    DE8rlr  RA 7zSH >/SK                 o   >i
?J.dhpu 00a i                                                                               d                      ACe ,ar_
Jedim~~~~~~~       ~~       ~~~~~ Sawa_  , f , &r  9   7  sg 
Madhapur a
rerererv  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     - 
15                                                                   efls~~3                        -     AtlaisassadN    aVara9aHsi 
<seeD         5~~iGpu),
PAKISTAN                                                 <5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
GUJARdAeT                                                                                                                      BMA
alrd-~~~~~
'~~~~~~~z7-  ASKTM
h,~~~~~~~,
iAr  NDHR
PRADESH ~ ~ ~ ~~ AmCSer






