OFFICIAL
D)OCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 2415 IN
Loan Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2415 IN
OAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       , 1984, between INDIA,
acting by its President (Mreinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by National
Fertilizers Limited with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to National
Fertilizers Limited part of the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided; and -
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and National
Fertilizers Limited;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NFL" means National Fertilizers Limited, a Government
company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of
the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NFL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(c)  "FCI" means Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited, a
Government company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as
amended, of the Borrower;
(d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NFL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(e) "Rs" means rupees in the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred    three   million    six    hundred   thousand    dollars
($203,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan -hqll h;i
governed by the provisions of the Schedule Lo the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to five hundred seven thousand seven hundred thirty-
one dollars ($507,731).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified    Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.


﻿-4-
(iv)  "Semester" means   the  first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) cause NFL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NFL
therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NFL to perform such
obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to NFL under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NFL, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
which shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, include
interest at an effective rate of not less than 12-3/4% per annum
on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by NFL and
outstanding from time to time and repayment over a period of
fifteen years, including therein a period of grace of five years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower speci-
fically undertakes to make available to NFL: (i) an equity


﻿-5-
contribution up to an aggregate amount of Rs 2.115 billion to be
paid in annual instaLILments according to the requirements of
Part A of the Project; and (ii) such other equity as may be
required to cover any shortfall in the internally generated cash
by NFL required for timely completion of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause to be carried
out the studies under Part B of the Project through FCI; and (ii)
make available the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Category
(3) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to FCI
for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project under a
financial arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and
FCI.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause FCI to employ consul-
tants to assist FCI in carrying out the studies under Part B of
the Project whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August
1981.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be


﻿-6-
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by- an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the accounts
related to Part B of the Project to be audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) cause FCI
to furnish to the Bank such information concerning said accounts,
records, expenditures and audit thereof, as the Bank may reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by October 1, 1986, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, ensure adequate and timely
supply of gas for the Project, and to that end, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate
for the completion of a gas project in accordance with a schedule
agreed with the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not take, or cause to be
taken, any action which, assuming production under conditions of
efficient operation, would prevent fertilizer manufacturers in
the territories of the Borrower from meeting their expenses and
servicing their debt out of their revenues, and from earning a
reasonble return on invested capital.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) NFL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) A subisidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquiri:d, if such creation or acquisition would
materially and adver-sely affect the efficient conduct of NFL's
business or NFL's financial condition or the carrying out of the
Project;
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that NFL will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d) A change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of NFL dated August 20, 1974, as amended
to the date of this Agreement, without prior consultation with
the Bank, which would materially and adversely affect the finan-
cial condition or operations of NFL or the ability of NFL to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(e) NFL or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or liquidation of NFL.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and NFL; and
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of the Agreement shall occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NFL.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NFL, and is legally binding upon NFL in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NFL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NFL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    A%      /     , is breby specified
for the purposes of Section 1.04 of the General (onditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿-9-
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
/s/ J,. P.4               -L9
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B  ?'/Afq  Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment, mate-         169,000,000         100% of foreign
rials and spare                            expenditures and
parts                                      100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(2) Technical ser-            11,000,000         100%
vices for NFL
(3) Consultants'               3,000,000         100%
services for
FCI
(4) Fee                          507,731        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               20,092,269
TOTAL              203,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be conloistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by rotice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to expand the domestic
nitrogenous fertilizer capacity through the design, construction
and start-up of a fertilizer plant at Vijaipur in the State of
Madhya Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   NFL
(i) The acquisition and installation of a single-train
1,350 tons per day ammonia unit.
(ii) The acquistion and installation of two 1,100 tons per
day urea units.
(iii) The acquistion and installation of integrated power and
steam generation facilities.
(iv) The construction of raw water storage and treatment
facilities, demineralized water plant and cooling water
systems.
(v) The construction of storage for 10,000 tons of refri-
gerated ammonia and 50,000 tons of bulk urea and faci-
lities for bagging urea.
(vi) The construction of related offsites, including main-
tenance workshops, warehouse, administration buildings,
laboratory, transport facilities and effluent treat-
ment.
(vii) The    construction  of   infrastructure,   including  a
township of about 1,000 housing units and social
facilities, road and rail links, and transmission lines
for power supply from the grid.


﻿- 13 -
Part B:   FCI
Carrying out of a study to identify rehabilitation require-
ments of FCI's coal-based fertilizer plants at Ramagundam and
Thalcher.
The Project is expected to be completed* by September 30,
1988.
*    The Project will be deemed completed only when the facili-
ties included therein shall have been in satisfactory opera-
tion for not less than 60 consecutive days at an average
production rate per day of not less than 80% of its respec-
tive daily capacity stated above.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schelule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1989
through  September 15, 2003                       6,785,000
On March 15, 2004                                      6,835,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of.prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this           day of/M  4-198i-
FOR SECRETARY


