Report No. PID7425
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Education Reform Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       RUPE50474
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
National Training Foundation
Address: 3/5 Smolensky Boulevard
119898 Moscow, Russia
Contact Person: Ms. Elena Soboleva, Executive
Director
Tel: 7-095-246-1884
Fax: 7-095-246-9892
Email: Soboleva@ntf.ru
Ministry of Education
Address: Moscow, Russian Federation
Contact Person: Mr. Vladimir Filipov,
Minister
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 11, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 16, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Russian education has a proud tradition. Most school-age children have
access to school places; and nearly all adults in the population are
literate. Although enrollment rates at some levels have declined slightly,
nearly all children attend general education, through the final year
(grade 11). In the best of Russian schools, learning achievements are on
a par with the best found anywhere in the world. In the early 1990s, a
large part of the education sector was decentralized to the regional
(oblast) levell. Decentralization of public spending can bring greater
efficiency and accountability to the education system, as it creates new
opportunities for the system to become more responsive to local needs. It
can also lead to substantial improvement in learning achievements as it
increases educational choice and opportunities. In Russia, the rapid
devolution of responsibilities to the regions, together with a tight
fiscal environment, radically changed the face of the education
system:Devolution of responsibility to the regions. In 1992, the
responsibility for general education was transferred to the regions. Most
regions benefit from federal transfers to finance general education.
However, these transfers have fallen both in relative terms and relative
to what the regions themselves spend. The responsibility for initial
vocational education is progressively being shifted to the regions. Tight
budgetary environment. Fluctuating between 3.4 percent and 4.5 percent of
GDP, public expenditure on education has fallen during the 1990s. In



real terms, public spending on education fell at a rate of 6 percent per
year. In 1998, consolidated public education expenditures amounted to 3.6
percent of GDP, compared to 5.4 percent in OECD countries (with a much
larger GDP). As decentralization was often carried out without
commensurate transfer of resources, regions were often left with
substantial responsibilities, but no financial means to sustain the pace
of reforms and operate the education system satisfactorily. Overall, the
decentralization reform process coincided with (i) growing regional
inequality; and (ii) emerging inequality of access in education. Growing
regional inequality. Russia's transition to a market economy has led to a
greater divergence of incomes across regions. A few of Russia's regions
have been able to capitalize on their resource endowments, location and
other factors to increase per capita income relative to the rest. These
regions with high per capita incomes have been able to spend more on
education and other social areas. While higher levels of expenditure do
not necessarily translate into higher educational outcomes, nevertheless,
Russia' poorest regions are now struggling to maintain the basic
requirements for high learning achievement in schools. Progress in
educational reform varies greatly among regions and the current fiscal
arrangements give MOE no policy leverage to assist or encourage the
regions where educational reform is lagging or national priorities are
ignored. Growing inequity in education delivery. There is a concern that
the emphasis on educational decentralization and diversity is creating
greater inequities and contributing to a narrowing of educational choice
and opportunities. The worsening financial situation has had adverse
effects on
lPrelimin
ary data show that the consolidated budget for education amounts to 189
billion Rubles (3.2 percent of GDP) in 2000. It can be estimated that 17
percent of the budget is spent at the federal level and 85 percent at the
sub-national levels (15 percent at the regional level and 70 percent at
the municipal level). The administration and financing of educational
institutions is shared between the central government (line ministries)
and sub-national governments (regions and municipalities). Since 1992, the
financial and management responsibility for pre-schools, general education
schools (grade 1-11), boarding schools, orphanage, and, in some regions,
vocational education schools is under the responsibility of sub-national
levels. Higher education and most vocational schools are under the
responsibility of the federal level. The MOE is responsible for 57
percent of federal education spending. In the medium term, the government
intends to transfer the responsibility of vocational education to the
regions.the access afforded to intellectually competent but financially
poor students to stay in school or to benefit from the courses that would
lead to better opportunities in life. Early specialization and streaming
of students in the secondary system have equity implications because poor
students and late developers are often sidelined and not given the kind of
education that will equip them to function in a market economy. Growing
reliance on "voluntary" contributions from parents, sponsors and local
communities to fund general education schools may have contributed to
narrow educational opportunities as well.Main Sector IssuesThe sector
study, Reforming Education in the Regions of Russia2, provides guidance
to the policy content of this project. At the federal level, the overall
quality of education deteriorated during the transition. Specifically, the
issues to be addressed are as follows:Poor teaching methods and shortage
of teaching materials. Teaching methods do not provide children with the
-2 -



capabilities they need to participate in a market economy. Teaching is
based on the acquisition of knowledge, instead of using a more
competency-based and individualized approach to learning. Moreover, there
is a pervasive lack of access to new teaching materials and a need to
develop new teaching methodologies using modern information
technology.Inadequately trained teachers and administrators. Teachers are
untrained in classroom management and in updated pedagogical methods.
School directors and education administration personnel in local
government offices are poorly trained in management.Lack of a national
system of student assessment and other indicators of educational quality.
Education standards do not address the requirements of a more
decentralized education system whereby the equivalence of qualifications
and facilitating the movement of individuals is ensured from one part of
the Russian Federation to another. An objective and fair system of
assessing student outcomes that ensures comparability of results across
ethnically and geographically disparate regions is lacking. Currently,
the MOE does not have the expertise or capacity to monitor educational
quality or to measure outcomes. Moreover, Russia lacks an accurate,
easily accessible database from which policy-makers can assemble
information about student numbers, unit costs and achievement levels. At
the regional level, the major issues to be addressed in general and
initial vocational education are as follows: (i) Inefficient governance
and financing structure. The decentralization of the education system can
increase efficiency and accountability by providing greater autonomy to
regions, municipalities and schools, and encouraging greater participation
of major stakeholders at the community level. Instead, in Russia, the
delegation of responsibility for education to regions and municipalities
has proven to be a particular constraint. At each level, roles and
responsibilities are poorly defined. At the regional and municipal
levels, new burdens have been placed on administrators, asking them to
fulfill roles for which they were often untrained. Moreover, the regional
budgets for education have often been allocated to municipalities and
schools in a non-transparent way, while budget execution has been poor;
e.g., school utility bills often go unpaid and threaten availability of
heat and electricity. At the school level, school administrators have no
autonomy in selecting budgetary expenditure priorities and lack
accountability in the use of overall budgetary resources.
2World Bank Technical Paper No.457.
December 1999.(ii) Low utilization of schools' capacity. The schools
network is in need of adjustment to respond to the shrinking school-age
population. Following the dramatic decline in the birth rate during the
1990s, the number of children in school age has shrunk. The
student-teacher ratio in the general education system has declined from
15.8 in 1989 to 13.5 in 1996. The student-teacher ratio is likely to fall
further in the years ahead as the smaller cohorts resulting from
prospective lower birthrates pass through Russia's school system. (iii)
Poor flexibility and market relevance of skills acquired in the education
system. Neither the general nor the vocational education systems are well
equipped to respond to market signals and to the changing conditions in
Russia today. VET institutions have had particular difficulty in adapting
to the changing social and economic environment, and many are still not
oriented or equipped to meet current labor market needs. Until recently,
all vocational schools trained their students for specific jobs rather
than teaching them a set of skills that could be utilized in a variety of
occupations across a number of fields. Despite gains made over the last
-3 -



decade, there is little evidence that the system of initial vocational
education is ready to initiate a competency based, modular approach that
has been largely adopted in most OECD countries. Moreover, vocational
school graduates are poorly equipped with the foundation learning skills
necessary to effectively undertake retraining.(iv)      Lack of public
participation. Currently few local communities, parent groups or social
partners are involved in the affairs of their schools. Parents have little
voice in school management including input into decisions on financial
issues or school curriculum. Their lack of participation means that they
have little understanding of the need for, or direction of, educational
reform. Although vocational education was intimately connected with
industry (in particular with state-owned enterprises) in Soviet times,
most former links are now broken or counterproductive. In general,
struggling new industry and employers are not focused on supporting
training of either future or current employees. Initial vocational
education urgently needs dynamic involvement of employers and other social
partners in not only the management and funding of vocational schools but
also skills identification and assessment. There is also an absence of
professional associations in both sectors resulting in weak public
discussion of major issues. Government StrategyThere has been extensive
public debate about the reform of the education system in Russia since the
summer of 1997, when the Commission for Economic Reform of the Russian
Federation requested the MOE to prepare proposals to increase efficiency
and to reduce unit costs in education while improving relevance to the
needs of a changing market economy. Reform of education financing,
including new systems to make fiscal flows to schools and to higher
education institutions more transparent and the use of the funds more
efficient, was an immediate objective. After the change of Government in
September 1998, the newly appointed Minister of Education indicated his
intention to continue with the reform proposals of the previous
Government. The same Minister was re-appointed (May 2000) and the economic
plans of the Government are consistent with the issues identified by the
Bank's sector work. In particular, The Development Strategy of the Russian
Federation Until 2010 (May 2000) highlights the recovery of social capital
as a major goal of the Government's reform program. The Strategy
acknowledges the need to undertake fiscal and managerial reforms to
address problems such as the non-payment of teachers. The 2000-01 Economic
Program of the Government of the Federation goes one step further in
defining the financial mechanism required to improve, among others, the
efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources for education.
It states the priority of the government strategy in the education sector
as follows: "the creation of the institutional, economic and legal
framework" is required to ensure the implementation of the "per capita
financing" scheme. The Minister of Education envisages the introduction of
the scheme across the 89 regions of the Russian Federation as soon as
possible.    Priority measures to address the special problems of rural
schools are also being developed.
2. Objectives
The objective of this project is to provide assistance to the Ministry of
Education (MOE) and competitively selected regions of Russia to reform
general and initial vocational education in order to:improve quality and
standards;promote the efficient and equitable use of scarce public
resources for education; modernize the education system (structure of
network and institutions); improve the flexibility and market-relevance of
- 4 -



initial vocational education.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is probably the only international organization with sufficient
resources to assist in a sector wide policy reform in the education sector
in the Russian Federation. The Bank has the capacity to mobilize and
consolidate other donor support. The project is complementary to the
efforts both of the European Union, especially relevant to the European
Training Foundation's work on VET reform, and complements the ongoing work
of the Open Society Institute and the British Council. The client has
expressed respect for the professionalism and objectivity of the wide
variety of the international TA the Bank has brought to the preparation
process to date.
4. Description
The proposed project will have two main components. At the federal level,
the project will build capacity to support the education reform strategy
of the Russian government through the development of new policies,
services and procedures (Component 1). At the regional level, the project
will pilot essential reforms in general and initial vocational education
in three regions selected on a transparent basis: Samara Oblast, Yaroslavl
Oblast and the Chuvash Republic (Component 2). This set of reforms aims
at: (i) promoting the efficient and equitable use of public resources
(component 2.1 ); (ii) modernizing the general education schools network
(component 2.2); and (iii) modernizing the initial vocational schools
network and improving market relevance of vocational education (component
2.3). A large proportion of project finance (approximately 73t of the
loan) will be on-lent to provide resources for the execution of pilot
educational reform programs. A third component, Project Management, will
fund effective project coordination.
1. Federal Component
1.1. Education policy reform
(i) disseminate reform models; (ii) effect appropriate changes to the
regulatory framework; and (iii) project monitoring and formative
evaluation.
1.2. Quality assurance and statistics (i) quality assurance system;
and (ii) collect and analyze educational statistics and performance
indicators;
1.3. Training and retraining methodologies, resource materials,
delivery mechanisms and related capacity building for training and
retraining educational administrators and school directors;
1.4. The development of courses and teaching materials for selected
new professions and teaching and learning materials for the development of
broad work-related core skills in initial vocational education.
2. Regional Component
2.1. Public Resources Management:
2.1.1. Per capita budgetary allocation mechanism
2.1.2. Governance and management capacity building
2.1.3. Quality assurance, statistics and monitoring
2.2. Modernization and Restructuring of General Schools Network
- 5 -



2.3. Restructuring of Initial Vocational Schools' and Improvement in
Market Relevance of vocational education
3. Project Management Component
Project management; monitoring implementation and achievement of
development objectives; procurement and disbursement.
Contingencies
Applicable taxes and duties
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IBRD                     50.00
OTHER SOURCES OF
BORROWING COUNTRY        0.80
Total Project Cost       71.1
6. Implementation
The Government has designated the National Training Foundation (NTF) to
execute the project on behalf of the MOE. The NTF was established in 1994
as a commercial organization to administer market oriented training
programs and to act as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the
Management & Financial Training Project (MFTP). In 1996, given its
project implementation experience, the NTF was selected by the Government
to be the implementing agency for the EIP. A condition to the Bank's
agreement to this arrangement was a substantial restructuring of the NTF.
The main reason for the restructuring was that the organization was set up
for commercial purposes and had revenue generating capabilities, which
could have been a potential conflict of interest if the NTF operated as
multi-project PIU. Therefore the commercial activities of the Foundation
have been separated from PIU activities and as such reflected in the
revised Foundation Charter. The management structure has also been
revised accordingly to provide greater involvement of the education
sector. NTF procurement and financial departments were reviewed at
Appraisal and found to be responsive to project implementation needs.
Further strengthening to reflect Bank procedures introduced since the
start of the EIP (i.e. LACI) have taken place with assistance of the World
Bank Moscow office Financial Management Unit, through the revision of
Volume I of the NTF Operational Manual, and by developing a Financial
Management Capacity Action Plan which was successfully fulfilled. The
project will be managed at the federal level by a core team within the NTF
consisting of a project manager and component leaders, with support from
the procurement and financial departments. As the main project investment
will be at regional level, each regional sub-project will be managed by
regionally based PIUs in each of the 3 pilot regions. These units will be
set up as separate foundations associated with both the NTF and the
respective Regional Education Administration or Ministry. This will
enable the unit to have direct access to regional authorities, while at
the same time conforming to standard of operation set by the NTF. It will
also provide the regions with an opportunity to improve their public
procurement and financial management practices on a wider basis. Each PIU
will be staffed with a PIU director, 1 component coordinator for each
General and Vocational Education, a procurement specialist, an accountant,
and an administrative assistant. A Strategic Committee, under the
- 6 -



chairmanship of either the Minister of Education or his designated
representative, and including the regional education authorities, the
directors of the federal and regional PIUs, will be established to guide
project implementation. Independent expert committees will also assist
the Minister and PIUs with technical reviews of consultant selection and
implementation monitoring. An organization chart for the project is
contained in the Operational Manual. At both federal and regional levels,
the PIUs will have a counterpart in either the MOE or the respective
Regional Education Administration or Ministry responsible for a
substantive component or activity of the project. The project will be
implemented over a six-year period, with the loan implementing in five
years. An allocation from the Portfolio Development Loan (an IBRD Loan
available to the Russian Government for promotion of new projects among
other things) has been approved by the Bank and the Russian Government to
fund critical project start-up activities.Project Implementation
Procedures Project Implementation Plan and Operational Manual. To
facilitate the management and implementation of the project, a detailed
timebound Project Implementation Plan and a draft Operational Manual were
prepared by the Borrower and were submitted for discussion at
Negotiations. The Operational Manual, which is a project management
requirement of the Bank, will in its final form include: (i) the project
governance structure; (ii) appropriate job descriptions; (iii) financial
flows; (iv) contract management systems; (v) internal control
procedures for the project; and (vi) clearly worked out interrelationship
between the Federal and regional level PIUs.      Financial Management.   A
Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA) was carried out for the
project and a summary of the report is included in Annex 6. Necessary
improvements for strengthening the financial management capacity of the
NTF and building financial management capacity in the regions were
identified and discussed with NTF as part of the FMCA. These improvements
were implemented under a time-bound Action Plan. The Financial Management
system is now satisfactory to the Bank.Financial Management System.
Project accounts and financial reporting to the Bank, both at the project
and the entity level, will be the responsibility of the NTF. The project
accounts will be maintained at both regional and federal levels. Although
the NTF will be responsible for compliance with disbursement procedures,
in order to pay small local contracts and PIU staff salaries at the
regional level, excluding those of civil servants, Regional Project
Accounts (an advance from the Special Account) with a limit of $50,000
will be established for each of the regional PIUs, and replenishments to
be made on a monthly basis. Consolidated project financial statements
will be the responsibility of the NTF. Detailed accounts will be kept for
each project component, including for individual subprojects, in
accordance with a Chart of Accounts acceptable to the Bank. The regionally
based PIUs will be responsible for maintaining satisfactory records,
including separate accounting records related to their individual
sub-projects and submit the information to the NTF for review and
incorporation into consolidated accounts. Audited consolidated financial
statements will be submitted to the Bank, not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.The NTF will need to strengthen the existing
accounting software to enable the system to prepare reports automatically,
this is included as a project expenditure. The appropriate staffing for
financial management functions within the NTF and regionally based PIUs
was confirmed during the FMCA. The above mentioned project Operational
Manual details financial management procedures and practices to be
- 7-



followed.The Loan funds committed to the Regional Component would be
provided on a 50% grant basis by the federal Government, with 50%
repayment by the Regional Administrations, through Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be signed between the Regional Governments and the Ministry
of Finance. These subsidiary loan agreements also describe the specific
actions and project activities to be undertaken by the Regional
Administration, including agreed time-bound targets for the level of per
capita financing of general education to be achieved by the Participating
Region. Draft Agreements have been prepared, and terms and conditions
discussed and agreed during negotiations with the Participating
Regions.Auditing. The project financial statements (including all related
records of regional subprojects), the Special Account (and regional
sub-accounts) and Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be audited
annually during project implementation in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA) by independent private auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audit will cover both the EIP and ERP, as well as the
financial statements of the NTF as an entity that will be prepared in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). Management
Letters will also be produced. Copies of the audit reports and Management
Letters will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
the Borrower's fiscal year. Special attention would be paid to confirm the
transparency and accountability of the use of funds by the sub-borrower.
Draft Terms of Reference for the audit, acceptable to the Bank, have been
prepared. and were reviewed by the Bank. The auditors should be under
contract by the Effectiveness deadline. The costs of the project audit and
the partial cost of the entity audit (cost-sharing with other project
being implemented by NTF) will be financed from the operating costs
category of the loan. Audit of the sub-projects in the regions will be
financed from the respective sub-loan funds. Project Management Reports.
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the NTF will prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs). These reports describe the achievements of the
previous quarter and the expected activities for the following quarter.
The PMRs will include financial statements, project progress reports and
procurement management reports. The regional PIUs will be responsible for
contributing information to the NTF each quarter for the PMRs. In
accordance with Bank's agreements with Russian Government, PMRs will not
be used for disbursement purposes under this project. The timing of
submission of the first PMR indeed was confirmed at negotiations as
quarterly submission starting from effectiveness of the project. The
formats of PMRs were agreed with the Bank.Procurement.     The NTF will be
responsible for procurement of goods and services for the Federal as well
as the Regional Components. As regional procurement capability is
developed, the regional PIUs will gradually become responsible for
procurement of smaller contracts for goods, works and services under their
respective subprojects and will be under continuous supervision by the NTF
supported by a procurement agent especially hired for that purpose. When
there are opportunities to consolidate procurement across the three
regions, the NTF will be responsible for those procurements. The
procurement capacity assessment and an action plan for additional
strengthening is presented in Annex 6.
7. Sustainability
Expenditures on education in the Russian Federation are grossly inadequate
to finance the same range and level of education services historically
provided by the public sector. The key challenge for the sector is to
- 8 -



improve and modernize education service delivery, primarily through major
but attainable increases in efficiency.    Policy measures supported in the
project are expected to improve stability and efficiency of education
service provision in three regions of the Russian Federation. These pilot
projects should establish conditions which would be replicable in other
regions on a sustainable level. Implementation of the per capita based
financing system may pose difficulty at first but the impact will be
mitigated through the savings expected to accrue to regional budgets in
the medium term.    Economic analysis is expected to demonstrate positive
return on the project. The project will not generate significant
incremental recurrent costs. Any incremental recurrent costs are expected
to be offset by savings from efficiency improvements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Benefits of education reforms are visible in the medium term. Experience
in all countries is that education reforms take a long time to work
through an education system and that the process is very politicized.
Therefore, even an optimistic assessment of the duration of the Regional
projects could be expected to be about 3-4 years.     Resources will also be
needed for high levels of supervision in the three regions.Communication
and coordination with major stakeholders is essential. Education reform
is impossible without the cooperation of teachers and administrators.
Given the situation in Russia today, it is a major challenge for the
project to design incentives for the teaching profession. A public
relations campaign is necessary to explain the benefits of reform and
public involvement to the education community in general, and to
stakeholders, such as prospective employers, in particular. One of the
key lessons being learned from the Education Innovation Project (EIP) is
the importance of ongoing policy dialogue with the professional community
and the importance of pilot projects for educational reforms.The success
of the per capita financing scheme also depends on a good dissemination
strategy. Experience in countries that have implemented the per capita
financing scheme show that the perceptions that are created of the success
or failure of scheme are key to transference and replication. The
communications strategy must spell out how analysis will be done and
include the dissemination of results to professional, political and public
audiences in appropriate forms. If this is well done, then a "climate of
acceptance" is created from the start. Given the tight budgetary
environment, the risks of non-communication or mis-communication are
substantial.In a decentralized structure, grass-roots education reforms
and implementation are vital. There is now a considerable amount of
experience available in designing operations which involve on-lending to
regions in Russia (including the first education loan, the EIP). The
design of the ERP benefited from close liaison with the design team for
the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance project and other projects with
regional lending in the Russian Country Portfolio. A common trend
regarding project implementation in Russia has been to place project
management responsibilities in federal level foundations. Success has
been uneven. There is some evidence emerging (CSIP) that some regional
PIUs are beginning to manage more efficiently than those at federal
level. The lessons of the mid-term review of the CSIP are being used for
the design of the Regional PIUs, and the interface between regional and
federal level responsibilities for project management.The experience of
donor-funded vocational education reform projects in Russia can provide
both valuable lessons and resources. Many relevant vocational education
-9-



reform projects have been carried out over the last few years. In
particular, the VET Reform in North-West Russia Project managed by the
European Training Foundation on behalf of a European Consortium has
provided access to dissemination of outcomes to representatives of this
project's three regions. Valuable work has been done on management of
regional VET systems, quality management, training of VET personnel,
development of new teaching and learning materials, multi-channel
financing and working with social partners including the strengthening of
relations between institutions and enterprises. The British Council has
been active in a number of regions. In Nizhny Novgorod, for example, the
Scottish Qualifications Authority has worked on the development of
competency-based approaches including criterion-referenced assessment and
have developed relevant modular learning materials.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This project has been assigned an Environmental
Category C rating since it is a capacity building project. Some minor
civil works, US$ 4.7 million, will be funded, however they are limited to:
cosmetic improvements of existing schools; and updating power supply and
communications systems in existing schools and offices to introduce
information technology. All identified schools/offices and improvements
to be financed will be included in the Operational Manual.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mary Canning
Tel. 5248+9539
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 15, 2001.
- 10 -



