Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21782-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 million
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
April 30, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 24, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ruble RUR
1 RUR = US$.034
US$1 = 28.89
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CSIP - Community Social Infrastructure Project
EIP - Education Innovation Project
ERP - Education Reforn Project
FMCA - Financial Management Capacity Assessment
MOE - Ministry of Education
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NTF - National Training Foundation
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PMR - Project Management Report
SOE - Statement of Expenses
TA - Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Director:    Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:   James Socknat
Task Tearn Leader:    Mary Canning



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          1 3
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        14
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                           14
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership                                 16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          16
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                         18
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                     20
6. Social                                                                            20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                    24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    25



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             25
2. Other Conditions                                                                    26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           26
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            47
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                66
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      81
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    82
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   83
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             85
MAP(S)
IBRD Map 31263



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: April 30, 2001                              Team Leader: Mary Canning
Country Manager/Director: Julian F. Schweitzer    Sector Manager/Director: James A. Socknat
Project ID: P050474                               Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit    [1 Grant     [ Guarantee      [1 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 50
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: .75                               Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source-                                   'Local        Foreign    - . Total-
BORROWER                                                       12.30           8.00          20.30
IBRD                                                           25.50          24.50          50.00
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                    0.50           0.30           0.80
Total:                                                         38.30          32.80          71.10
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
National Training Foundation
Address: 3/5 Smolensky Boulevard
119898 Moscow, Russia
Contact Person: Ms. Elena Soboleva, Executive Director
Tel: 7-095-246-1884                Fax: 7-095-246-9892                Email: Soboleva@ntf.ru
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Education
Address: Moscow, Russian Federation
Contact Person: Mr. Vladimir Filipov, Minister
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USSM):
'FY        '2002      2 1003      2004      2005      '2006
Annual    8.80       13.20      16.10       9.60       2.30
Cumulative    8.80       22.00      38.10      47.70     50.00
Project implementation period: Five years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD F-n, Re. Ma,R 21)0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of this project is to provide assistance to the Ministry of Education (MOE) and competiti' ely
selected regions of Russia to reform general and initial vocational education in order to:
*   improve quality and standards;
*   promote the efficient and equitable use of scarce public resources for education;
*   modernize the education system (structure of network and institutions);
*   improve the flexibility and market-relevance of initial vocational education.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achieving the development objectives will be evaluated through the following key
performance indicators: (i) improved standard education indicators; (ii) quality monitoring and educational
statistics guidelines developed, implemented and disseminated; (iii) education policy capacity developed;
(iv) improved access for rural students in three pilot regions; and (v) improved labor market relevanc. of
initial vocational education system in three pilot regions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I
Document number: 21709-RU           Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/06/01
The CAS identifies eight areas in which the Bank intends to provide support to the Government: (i)
economic management, (ii) public sector administration and financial management, (iii) fight against
corruption, (iv) private sector development, (v) sector specific policy and institutional impediments, (vi)
basic social services, (vii) social safety net, and (viii) environment and natural resources.
The CAS identified the need to "reform service delivery paradigms and financing arrangement; to
ensure access to quality basic services in health and education ". In the CAS Progress Report of Febr.,ary
2001, the key challenge of the Bank's strategy in the education sector is "to improve and moderiize
service delivery, primarily through major but attainable increases in efficiency"
The proposed Education Reform Project (ERP) would contribute to CAS objectives (ii) and (vi'i by
improving the delivery of education services, and the transparency and accountability of the public sectr r.
At the federal level, the ERP will build capacity for policy development and support improvements iri the
quality of education. At the regional level, the ERP will pilot a set of reforms in 3 regions: the introduc ion
of a transparent and equitable mechanism to allocate budgetary resources for general education among
schools; a strengthening of the governance and management structure; a modernization of the general and
initial vocational schools network and, enhancement of the market relevance of vocational education.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Russian education has a proud tradition. Most school-age children have access to school places; and nearly
all adults in the population are literate. Although enrollment rates at some levels have declined slightly,
nearly all children attend general education, through the final year (grade 11). In the best of Russian
schools, learning achievements are on a par with the best found anywhere in the world.
- 2 -



In the early 1990s, a large part of the education sector was decentralized to the regional (oblast) level'.
Decentralization of public spending can bring greater efficiency and accountability to the education system,
as it creates new opportunities for the system to become more responsive to local needs. It can also lead to
substantial improvement in learning achievements as it increases educational choice and opportunities.
In Russia, the rapid devolution of responsibilities to the regions, together with a tight fiscal environment,
radically changed the face of the education system:
*   Devolution of responsibility to the regions. In 1992, the responsibility for general education was
transferred to the regions. Most regions benefit from federal transfers to finance general education.
However, these transfers have fallen both in relative terms and relative to what the regions
themselves spend. The responsibility for initial vocational education is progressively being shifted
to the regions.
*   Tight budgetary environment. Fluctuating between 3.4 percent and 4.5 percent of GDP, public
expenditure on education has fallen during the 1 990s. In real terms, public spending on education
fell at a rate of 6 percent per year. In 1998, consolidated public education expenditures amounted
to 3.6 percent of GDP, compared to 5.4 percent in OECD countries (with a much larger GDP). As
decentralization was often carried out without commensurate transfer of resources, regions were
often left with substantial responsibilities, but no financial means to sustain the pace of reforms
and operate the education system satisfactorily.
Overall, the decentralization reform process coincided with (i) growing regional inequality; and (ii)
emerging inequality of access in education.
*   Growing regional inequality. Russia's transition to a market economy has led to a greater
divergence of incomes across regions. A few of Russia's regions have been able to capitalize on
their resource endowments, location and other factors to increase per capita income relative to the
rest. These regions with high per capita incomes have been able to spend more on education and
other social areas. While higher levels of expenditure do not necessarily translate into higher
educational outcomes, nevertheless, Russia' poorest regions are now struggling to maintain the
basic requirements for high learning achievement in schools. Progress in educational reform varies
greatly among regions and the current fiscal arrangements give MOE no policy leverage to assist
or encourage the regions where educational reform is lagging or national priorities are ignored.
*   Growing inequity in education delivery. There is a concern that the emphasis on educational
decentralization and diversity is creating greater inequities and contributing to a narrowing of
educational choice and opportunities. The worsening financial situation has had adverse effects on
Preliminary data show that the consolidated budget for education amounts to 189 billion Rubles (3.2 percent of
GDP) in 2000. It can be estimated that 17 percent of the budget is spent at the federal level and 85 percent at the
sub-national levels (15 percent at the regional level and 70 percent at the municipal level). The administration and
financing of educational institutions is shared between the central government (line ministries) and sub-national
governments (regions and municipalities). Since 1992, the financial and management responsibility for
pre-schools, general education schools (grade 1-11), boarding schools, orphanage, and, in some regions, vocational
education schools is under the responsibility of sub-national levels. Higher education and most vocational schools
are under the responsibility of the federal level. The MOE is responsible for 57 percent of federal education
spending. In the medium term, the government intends to transfer the responsibility of vocational education to the
regions.
-3 -



the access afforded to intellectually competent but financially poor students to stay in school o - to
benefit from the courses that would lead to better opportunities in life. Early specialization mnd
streaming of students in the secondary system have equity implications because poor students nmd
late developers are often sidelined and not given the kind of education that will equip then. to
function in a market economy. Growing reliance on "voluntary" contributions from parents,
sponsors and local communities to fund general education schools may have contributed to nanow
educational opportunities as well.
Main Sector Issues
The sector study, Reforming Education in the Regions of Russia, provides guidance to the policy content
of this project. At the federal level, the overall quality of education deteriorated during the transition.
Specifically, the issues to be addressed are as follows:
Poor teaching methods and shortage of teaching materials. Teaching methods do not pros ide
children with the capabilities they need to participate in a market economy. Teaching is based on the
acquisition of knowledge, instead of using a more competency-based and individualized approach to
learning. Moreover, there is a pervasive lack of access to new teaching materials and a need to develop
new teaching methodologies using modem information technology.
Inadequately trained teachers and administrators. Teachers are untrained in classroom management
and in updated pedagogical methods. School directors and education administration personnel in local
govenmment offices are poorly trained in management.
Lack of a national system of student assessment and other indicators of educational quality.
Education standards do not address the requirements of a more decentralized education system whereby
the equivalence of qualifications and facilitating the movement of individuals is ensured from one part
of the Russian Federation to another. An objective and fair system of assessing student outcomes Ihat
ensures comparability of results across ethnically and geographically disparate regions is lacking.
Currently, the MOE does not have the expertise or capacity to monitor educational quality or to
measure outcomes. Moreover, Russia lacks an accurate, easily accessible database from which
policy-makers can assemble information about student numbers, unit costs and achievement levels.
At the regional level, the major issues to be addressed in general and initial vocational education arc as
follows:
(i)    Inefficient governance and financing structure. The decentralization of the education system can
increase efficiency and accountability by providing greater autonomy to regions, municipalities amd
schools, and encouraging greater participation of major stakeholders at the community level. Instead. in
Russia, the delegation of responsibility for education to regions and municipalities has proven to b a
particular constraint. At each level, roles and responsibilities are poorly defined. At the regional mnd
municipal levels, new burdens have been placed on administrators, asking them to fulfill roles for which
they were often untrained. Moreover, the regional budgets for education have often been allocated to
municipalities and schools in a non-transparent way, while budget execution has been poor; e.g., school
utility bills often go unpaid and threaten availability of heat and electricity. At the school level, school
administrators have no autonomy in selecting budgetary expenditure priorities and lack accountabilitx in
the use of overall budgetary resources.
World Bank Technical Paper No.457. December 1999.
- 4 -



(ii)    Low utilization of schools' capacity. The schools network is in need of adjustment to respond to
the shrinking school-age population. Following the dramatic decline in the birth rate during the 1990s, the
number of children in school age has shrunk. The student-teacher ratio in the general education system has
declined from 15.8 in 1989 to 13.5 in 1996. The student-teacher ratio is likely to fall further in the years
ahead as the smaller cohorts resulting from prospective lower birthrates pass through Russia's school
system.
(iii) Poor flexibility and market relevance of skills acquired in the education system. Neither the
general nor the vocational education systems are well equipped to respond to market signals and to the
changing conditions in Russia today. VET institutions have had particular difficulty in adapting to the
changing social and economic environment, and many are still not oriented or equipped to meet current
labor market needs. Until recently, all vocational schools trained their students for specific jobs rather than
teaching them a set of skills that could be utilized in a variety of occupations across a number of fields.
Despite gains made over the last decade, there is little evidence that the system of initial vocational
education is ready to initiate a competency based, modular approach that has been largely adopted in most
OECD countries. Moreover, vocational school graduates are poorly equipped with the foundation learning
skills necessary to effectively undertake retraining.
(iv)  Lack of public participation. Currently few local communities, parent groups or social partners are
involved in the affairs of their schools. Parents have little voice in school management including input into
decisions on financial issues or school curriculum. Their lack of participation means that they have little
understanding of the need for, or direction of, educational reform. Although vocational education was
intimately connected with industry (in particular with state-owned enterprises) in Soviet times, most former
links are now broken or counterproductive. In general, struggling new industry and employers are not
focused on supporting training of either future or current employees. Initial vocational education urgently
needs dynamic involvement of employers and other social partners in not only the management and funding
of vocational schools but also skills identification and assessment. There is also an absence of professional
associations in both sectors resulting in weak public discussion of major issues.
Government Strate2v
There has been extensive public debate about the reform of the education system in Russia since the
summer of 1997, when the Commission for Economic Reform of the Russian Federation requested the
MOE to prepare proposals to increase efficiency and to reduce unit costs in education while improving
relevance to the needs of a changing market economy. Reform of education financing, including new
systems to make fiscal flows to schools and to higher education institutions more transparent and the use of
the funds more efficient, was an immediate objective. After the change of Government in September 1998,
the newly appointed Minister of Education indicated his intention to continue with the reform proposals of
the previous Government. The same Minister was re-appointed (May 2000) and the economic plans of the
Government are consistent with the issues identified by the Bank's sector work. In particular, The
Development Strategy of the Russian Federation Until 2010 (May 2000) highlights the recovery of social
capital as a major goal of the Government's reform program. The Strategy acknowledges the need to
undertake fiscal and managerial reforms to address problems such as the non-payment of teachers.
The 2000-01 Economic Program of the Government of the Federation goes one step further in defining
the financial mechanism required to improve, among others, the efficiency and transparency in the use of
public resources for education. It states the priority of the government strategy in the education sector as
follows: "the creation of the institutional, economic and legal framework" is required to ensure the
- 5-



implementation of the 'per capita financing" scheme. The Minister of Education envisages the introduction
of the scheme across the 89 regions of the Russian Federation as soon as possible. Priority measures to
address the special problems of rural schools are also being developed.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A major rationale for this project is to provide a way for reforns that are propounded at a federal level to
be turned into local policy actions while preserving the system of local responsibility. In the initial phase of
the project, emphasis will be placed on policy development and other "software" project components, rather
than on investment in "hardware" components.
The project will provide support to address the following set of sector issues:
(i)    Policy Development and improvement in the quality of education. The project will provide
support to strengthen the MOE and provide an appropriate legal framework, to enable it to lead reform,
monitor progress and, evaluate and disseminate results. It will support the creation of a federal educational
statistics system on the federal level and in the three pilot regions, in conjunction with the State Statistical
System Project, the development of indicators of educational quality, and lay the ground work for the
introduction of a national system of student assessment.
(ii)    Efficient and equitable public resources management. At the regional level, the project will
finance the introduction and development of a transparent mechanism of budgetary allocation, using the per
capita principle. The new financing scheme will provide incentives for rational decision-making at the
school level. To benefit fully from this flexible budgetary approach, educational administrators and school
directors will be trained in management and accounting. The introduction of the per capita financing
mechanism will be consistent with intergovernmental finance reforms which are supported under the
Regional Fiscal TA Project.
(iii)   Modernization of the general and vocational education schools network. At the regional level,
the schools network will be restructured to achieve economies of scale where existing schools are too small
to be economically viable, or where there is an overlap in the missions of adjacent institutions. This
restructuring will create more cost-effective schools and contribute to an improvement in the quality of
education through the provision of modem leaming equipment, while preserving an equitable access to
education. The network of initial vocational schools will be restructured through a range of methods
appropriate to regional needs, schools' locations and profiles: amalgamation, horizontal and vertical
integration, clustering, and rationalization of profiles. This restructuring will be supported through the
establishment of carefully placed resource centers to provide teacher support in curriculum and learring
materials development; access to shared training equipment that is unavailable in, or too expensive for,
small schools; and to provide a venue for criterion-referenced skills assessment. The establishment of these
well-equipped and modem training centers should attract courses for the unemployed funded through the
Employment Fund.
(iv)   Improvement in the market relevance of vocational education. Changes in the labor market are
inadequately reflected in initial vocational educational programs. For some areas of high demand, standards
have yet to be developed, and teaching and leaming materials are unavailable. Further, the few labor
market assessments done, together with the social assessments carried out in the three participating regions,
indicate strongly that graduates of primary vocational education do not possess the skills or qualities that
employers consider to be important in Russia's changed environment. Like employers everywhere, Russian
employers want employees who can communicate, are numerate, can work in teams, are able to solve
- 6 -



problems, are computer literate and can manage change.  While it could be argued that all of these
competencies could be gained by retention of students in the general education stream rather than in a more
expensive initial vocational system and by leaving specialized training to post secondary institutions and
employers, the social role played by PTUs in Russia makes such a drastic shift impossible in the short
term.  The project will support improvement in the linkages to the market for vocational education
institutions by introducing courses on new professions related to the economic development priorities of the
regions and by developing modules on transferable work-related key competencies or by incorporating the
development of key competencies into school-based curriculum. Because of the magnitude of the task of
modernizing the content of Russia's initial vocational education system, courses will be developed only for
those "new" professions for which all three regions have needs. Regions will also undertake a series of
initiatives aimed at increasing the involvement of social partners in management, funding, needs analysis,
job placement, on-the-job skills development, course design and content, and assessment.
A number of strategic choices were made not to provide support for certain elements in view of the broad
range of issues in the education sector. These are summarized below:
*   Regional inequality.  Significant disparities in per student spending at all levels have been
identified across the 89 regions. This disparity is predominantly, but not exclusively explained by
differences in revenue collection per capita. However, the project will not address the efficiency
and equity of the federal equalization funding mechanism and the adequacy of the overall level of
funding for education.  As part of the overall Bank's strategy to improve public sector
administration and financial management, this project will strengthen local institutions by
supporting grass-roots improvement in the management of public resources.
-   Inequities in outcomes. Inequities in education outcomes (together with the funding inequities that
may or may not be a factor in those achievement inequities) can only be addressed in the medium
term once consistent information on performance is available. However, the project will help to
reduce educational disparities in the three selected regions by urban/rural location.
- 7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed desciiption and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will have two main components. At the federal level, the project will build capacity to
support the education reform strategy of the Russian government through the development of new policies,
services and procedures (Component 1). At the regional level, the project will pilot essential reforms in
general and initial vocational education in three regions selected on a transparent basis: Samara Oblast,
Yaroslavl Oblast and the Chuvash Republic (Component 2). This set of reforms aims at: (i) promoting the
efficient and equitable use of public resources (component 2.1 ); (ii) modemizing the general education
schools network (component 2.2); and (iii) modemizing the initial vocational schools network and
improving market relevance of vocational education (component 2.3). A large proportion of project finance
(approximately 73% of the loan) will be on-lent to provide resources for the execution of pilot educational
reformn programs. A third component, Project Management, will fund effective project coordination.
1. Federal Component               System Reform &     11.20       15.8     10.10       20.2
Capacity
1.1. Education policy reform     Building
(i) disseminate reform models; (ii)
effect appropriate changes to the
regulatory framework; and (iii)
project monitoring and formative
evaluation.
1.2. Quality assurance and
statistics (i) quality assurance system;
and (ii) collect and analyze
educational statistics and performance
indicators;
1.3. Training and retraining
methodologies, resource materials,
delivery mechanisms and related
capacity building for training and
retraining educational administrators
and school directors;
1.4. The development of courses
and teaching materials for selected
new professions and teaching and
leaming materials for the development
of broad work-related core skills in
initial vocational education.
-8 -



2. Regional Component              System Reform &    41.30      58.1      34.80      69.6
Capacity
2.1. Public Resources Management:    Building
2.1.1. Per capita budgetary allocation
mechanism
2.1.2. Governance and management
capacity building
2.1.3. Quality assurance, statistics and
monitoring
2.2. Modernization and Restructuring
of General Schools Network
2.3. Restructuring of Initial Vocational
Schools' and Improvement in Market
Relevance of vocational education
3. Project Management Component    Other Finance       6.60       9.3       4.60       9.2
Project management; monitoring
implementation and achievement of
development objectives; procurement
and disbursement.
0.00       0.0      0.00       0.0
Contingencies                                          0.20       0.3       0.00       0.0
Applicable taxes and duties                           11.30       15.9      0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                  70.60      99.3     49.50       99.0
Front-end fee                    0.50       0.7       0.50       1.0
Total Financing Required                    71.10     100.0     50.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project aims to support key institutional/management reforms as follows:
*  Introduction and development of a new mechanism to allocate budgetary resources for general
education, using the per capita principle.
*  Development of a new governance and management structure at the regional, municipal and school
levels.
*   Creation of a quality assurance unit.
*   Increased participation in the OECD indicators (INES) network and Program for International
Student Assessment (PISA) (linkage with State Statistical System project).
* Improvement of market linkages in education system.
* The broadening of curriculum in initial vocational schools by the introduction of work-related core
skills.
*   The encouragement of competency-based, modular and student-centered approaches in initial
vocational institutions.
-9-



In addition, the project will support the restructuring of the schools network at two levels:
General Education. In rural areas, the project will assist with the phasing out and re-conversicn of
selected non-viable schools, together with the consolidation of other rural schools and with their
transformation into "high-quality" educational centers. In urban areas, the project will help to create
education districts to provide a comprehensive range of educational services to the surrounding populk tion.
Initial vocational education. The project will support some horizontal and vertical amalgamaticrn of
schools based on rationalization of profiles, the closure of non-viable schools, and the creation of clusters
of vocational schools accessing multi-function, well-equipped resource centers.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will be implemented in three participating regions which were selected according to transparent
criteria developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education during project preparation. These criteria
were based on: (i) an evaluation of the social and political stability of the Region; (ii) progress in finarcing
and management reform; (iii) clear ownership by regional and local education authorities of a progra n of
educational reform; and (iv) an evaluation of the quality of education management in the Region. For each
region selected, benchmarks have been established to evaluate progress. Given this regional focus, the
immediate benefits of the project will be enjoyed by teachers, administrators and students only in ihose
regions participating. However, participating regions include recipient as well as donor regions, ancl are
located in different geographical areas. Therefore, in the medium term, lessons from reform will be learnt
and disseminated. Pilot regions will act as training hubs for surrounding areas.
(i)    Increased efficiency. The Russian education system as a whole stands to benefit from improved
public resources management, with clearer governance and a more effective information systeni. A
transparent mechanism to allocate budgetary resources for general education will benefit the reg.ons,
municipalities, schools and students. Resources will be directed towards the education of students rather
than into sustaining layers of management which do not add to the teaching/learning process. Improved
policy information about the quality of schools and institutions will increase the transparency and support a
greater accountability of the education system.
(ii)    Increased accountability in education delivery.  Educational reforms will be introduced in
partnership with major stakeholders at the community level. These stakeholders will include parents,
employers and teachers' unions. Transparent institutional and managerial mechanisms will encourage
stakeholders' engagement in promoting quality education.
(ii)   Improved quality of delivery of education. Students in participating regions will benefit tiom
improved quality of education. Increased choice, diversity and flexibility in learning paths for individual
children will be offered, and quality standards will be improved using work on standards initiated ir. the
Education Innovation Project (EIP).  Fair, meritocratic and transparent access to standards-based
education will benefit all children in general education. The end result would be transparent procedures for
competitive access to higher education or special programs, special attention to the quality and relevance of
initial vocational education, and the provision of equal opportunities for further education and training.
(iv)    Increased equity.  The introduction of the per capita allocation mechanism, adjusted for
differences in location and students' characteristics, will protect the access to general education for
vulnerable groups, children in rural areas and with special needs whose families are unable to pay for their
- 10-



education. Special vocational courses for students with disabilities will be introduced in selected resource
centers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Government has designated the National Training Foundation (NTF) to execute the project on behalf
of the MOE. The NTF was established in 1994 as a commercial organization to administer market
oriented training programs and to act as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Management &
Financial Training Project (MFTP). In 1996, given its project implementation experience, the NTF was
selected by the Government to be the implementing agency for the EIP. A condition to the Bank's
agreement to this arrangement was a substantial restructuring of the NTF. The main reason for the
restructuring was that the organization was set up for commercial purposes and had revenue generating
capabilities, which could have been a potential conflict of interest if the NTF operated as multi-project PIU.
Therefore the commercial activities of the Foundation have been separated from PIU activities and as such
reflected in the revised Foundation Charter. The management structure has also been revised accordingly
to provide greater involvement of the education sector.
NTF procurement and financial departments were reviewed at Appraisal and found to be responsive to
project implementation needs. Further strengthening to reflect Bank procedures introduced since the start
of the EIP (i.e. LACI) have taken place with assistance of the World Bank Moscow office Financial
Management Unit, through the revision of Volume I of the NTF Operational Manual, and by developing a
Financial Management Capacity Action Plan which was successfully fulfilled.
The project will be managed at the federal level by a core team within the NTF consisting of a project
manager and component leaders, with support from the procurement and financial departments. As the
main project investment will be at regional level, each regional sub-project will be managed by regionally
based PIUs in each of the 3 pilot regions. These units will be set up as separate foundations associated
with both the NTF and the respective Regional Education Administration or Ministry. This will enable the
unit to have direct access to regional authorities, while at the same time conforming to standard of
operation set by the NTF. It will also provide the regions with an opportunity to improve their public
procurement and financial management practices on a wider basis. Each PIU will be staffed with a PIU
director, I component coordinator for each General and Vocational Education, a procurement specialist, an
accountant, and an administrative assistant.
A Strategic Committee, under the chairmanship of either the Minister of Education or his designated
representative, and including the regional education authorities, the directors of the federal and regional
PIUs, will be established to guide project implementation. Independent expert committees will also assist
the Minister and PIUs with technical reviews of consultant selection and implementation monitoring. An
organization chart for the project is contained in the Operational Manual. At both federal and regional
levels, the PIUs will have a counterpart in either the MOE or the respective Regional Education
Administration or Ministry responsible for a substantive component or activity of the project. The project
will be implemented over a six-year period, with the loan implementing in five years. An allocation from
the Portfolio Development Loan (an IBRD Loan available to the Russian Govemment for promotion of
new projects among other things) has been approved by the Bank and the Russian Govermment to fund
critical project start-up activities.
- 11 -



Project Implementation Procedures
Project Implementation Plan and Operational Manual. To facilitate the management and implementation of
the project, a detailed timebound Project Implementation Plan and a draft Operational Manual were
prepared by the Borrower and were submitted for discussion at Negotiations. The Operational M;.nual,
which is a project management requirement of the Bank, will in its final forn include: (i) the p:-oject
governance structure; (ii) appropriate job descriptions; (iii) financial flows; (iv) contract management
systems; (v) internal control procedures for the project; and (vi) clearly worked out interrelatioaship
between the Federal and regional level PIUs.
Financial Management. A Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA) was carried out f:wr the
project and a summary of the report is included in Annex 6. Necessary improvements for strengthening the
financial management capacity of the NTF and building financial management capacity in the regions were
identified and discussed with NTF as part of the FMCA. These improvements were implemented under a
time-bound Action Plan. The Financial Management system is now satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial Management System. Project accounts and financial reporting to the Bank, both at the project
and the entity level, will be the responsibility of the NTF. The project accounts will be maintained at both
regional and federal levels. Although the NTF will be responsible for compliance with disbursement
procedures, in order to pay small local contracts and PIU staff salaries at the regional level, excluding those
of civil servants, Regional Project Accounts (an advance from the Special Account) with a limit of $50,000
will be established for each of the regional PlUs, and replenishments to be made on a monthly 'basis.
Consolidated project financial statements will be the responsibility of the NTF. Detailed accounts will be
kept for each project component, including for individual subprojects, in accordance with a Chart of
Accounts acceptable to the Bank. The regionally based PIUs will be responsible for maintaining
satisfactory records, including separate accounting records related to their individual sub-project, and
submit the information to the NTF for review and incorporation into consolidated accounts. At dited
consolidated financial statements will be submitted to the Bank, not later than six months after the e ad of
each fiscal year.
The NTF will need to strengthen the existing accounting software to enable the system to prepare reports
automatically, this is included as a project expenditure. The appropriate staffing for financial management
functions within the NTF and regionally based PIUs was confirmed during the FMCA. The ;bove
mentioned project Operational Manual details financial management procedures and practices o be
followed.
The Loan funds committed to the Regional Component would be provided on a 50% grant basis by the
federal Government, with 50% repayment by the Regional Administrations, through Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be signed between the Regional Governments and the Ministry of Finance. These subsidiary
loan agreements also describe the specific actions and project activities to be undertaken by the Regional
Administration, including agreed time-bound targets for the level of per capita financing of general
education to be achieved by the Participating Region. Draft Agreements have been prepared, and -erms
and conditions discussed and agreed during negotiations with the Participating Regions.
Auditing. The project financial statements (including all related records of regional subprojects, the
Special Account (and regional sub-accounts) and Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be atdited
annually during project implementation in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA.) by
independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit will cover both the EIP and ERP, as w-ell as
the financial statements of the NTF as an entity that will be prepared in accordance with Intemal:ional
- 12 -



Accounting Standards (IAS). Management Letters will also be produced. Copies of the audit reports and
Management Letters will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the Borrower's fiscal
year. Special attention would be paid to confirm the transparency and accountability of the use of funds by
the sub-borrower. Draft Terms of Reference for the audit, acceptable to the Bank, have been prepared.
and were reviewed by the Bank. The auditors should be under contract by the Effectiveness deadline. The
costs of the project audit and the partial cost of the entity audit (cost-sharing with other project being
implemented by NTF) will be financed from the-operating costs category of the loan. Audit of the
sub-projects in the regions will be financed from the respective sub-loan funds.
Project Management Reports. In accordance with Bank guidelines, the NTF will prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs). These reports describe the achievements of the previous quarter and
the expected activities for the following quarter. The PMRs will include financial statements, project
progress reports and procurement management reports. The regional PIUs will be responsible for
contributing information to the NTF each quarter for the PMRs. In accordance with Bank's agreements
with Russian Government, PMRs will not be used for disbursement purposes under this project. The timing
of submission of the first PMR indeed was confirmed at negotiations as quarterly submission starting from
effectiveness of the project. The formats of PMRs were agreed with the Bank.
Procurement. The NTF will be responsible for procurement of goods and services for the Federal as well
as the Regional Components. As regional procurement capability is developed, the regional PIUs will
gradually become responsible for procurement of smaller contracts for goods, works and services under
their respective subprojects and will be under continuous supervision by the NTF supported by a
procurement agent especially hired for that purpose. When there are opportunities to consolidate
procurement across the three regions, the NTF will be responsible for those procurements. The
procurement capacity assessment and an action plan for additional strengthening is presented in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No project alternative. Given that the political will to reform the education system exists, resources are
needed to secure some critical inputs, produce successful pilot initiatives in the regions and ensure
stakeholder engagement and approval. However, public funds are not available in the regions to finance
reform pilots. A well designed and targeted project would mitigate the risk of losing commitmnent and
credibility of the reform compared with the no project alternative.
Project Design Options. An adjustment operation might have been an option. However, this option was
rejected as it is difficult to target sectoral reform in an adjustment operation and, as the CAS makes clear,
"early adjustment lending (in Russia) was insufficiently effective in delivering substantial structural
reform ".
An Adaptable Program Loan which would allow the Government to support the proposed sector
modemization program on a regional basis through a number of time slices of financing was considered
during the earlier phases of project preparation. However, the CAS has judged that in Russia the climate
is still not right for the use of this instrument (par. 45).
Accordingly the team has chosen a mixture of Technical Assistance (TA) and investment in three regions
which have shown a strong desire for reform, together and with a Federal TA component which would
disseminate useful and replicable lessons to other regions of the Federation.
- 13-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
f   Latest Supervision
Setor Issue                               )Pject               (PSR) Ratingsl
_______________ _______________      I  _    _     _    _     _    (;BiaRST0000 :         X 00 0n k-fin anced   pir4 w b y
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (lP)    Objective (DO)
Textbook quality, Higher Education    Education Innovation Project        S              S
reform
Regional financing issues            Regional Fiscal Technical            S              S
Assistance Project
Statistics improvement               State Statistical System project     S              S
Education infrastructure in two regions Community Social                  S              S
Infrastructure Project
Other development agencies
European Training Foundation         Reforn of Vocational
Education (NW Russia)
British Council                      Education Management,
Vocational Education
Qualifications
Open Society Institute - Soros       Training and Capacity Building
Foundation (planned)                 for Regional administrators and
education professionals
(Assistance to 8 regions)
European Union ( TACIS)              Management of Education,
Distance Education, Reformn of
Vocational Education
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Benefits of education reforms are visible in the medium term. Experience in all countries is that
education reforms take a long time to work through an education system and that the process is very
politicized. Therefore, even an optimistic assessment of the duration of the Regional projects could be
expected to be about 3-4 years. Resources will also be needed for high levels of supervision in the three
regions.
Communication and coordination with major stakebolders is essential. Education reform is impossible
without the cooperation of teachers and administrators. Given the situation in Russia today, it is a major
- 14 -



challenge for the project to design incentives for the teaching profession. A public relations campaign is
necessary to explain the benefits of reform and public involvement to the education community in general,
and to stakeholders, such as prospective employers, in particular. One of the key lessons being learned
from the Education Innovation Project (EIP) is the importance of ongoing policy dialogue with the
professional community and the importance of pilot projects for educational reforms.
The success of the per capita financing scheme also depends on a good dissemination strategy.
Experience in countries that have implemented the per capita financing scheme show that the perceptions
that are created of the success or failure of scheme are key to transference and replication.  The
communications strategy must spell out how analysis will be done and include the dissemination of results
to professional, political and public audiences in appropriate forms. If this is well done, then a "climate of
acceptance" is created from the start. Given the tight budgetary environment, the risks of
non-communication or mis-communication are substantial.
In a decentralized structure, grass-roots education reforms and implementation are vital. There is
now a considerable amount of experience available in designing operations which involve on-lending to
regions in Russia (including the first education loan, the EIP). The design of the ERP benefited from close
liaison with the design team for the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance project and other projects with
regional lending in the Russian Country Portfolio. A common trend regarding project implementation in
Russia has been to place project management responsibilities in federal level foundations. Success has
been uneven. There is some evidence emerging (CSIP) that some regional PIUs are beginning to manage
more efficiently than those at federal level. The lessons of the mid-term review of the CSIP are being used
for the design of the Regional PlUs, and the interface between regional and federal level responsibilities for
project management.
The experience of donor-funded vocational education reform projects in Russia can provide both
valuable lessons and resources. Many relevant vocational education reform projects have been carried
out over the last few years. In particular, the VET Reform in North-West Russia Project managed by the
European Training Foundation on behalf of a European Consortium has provided access to dissemination
of outcomes to representatives of this project's three regions.  Valuable work has been done on
management of regional VET systems, quality management, training of VET personnel, development of
new teaching and learning materials, multi-channel financing and working with social partners including the
strengthening of relations between institutions and enterprises. The British Council has been active in a
number of regions. In Nizhny Novgorod, for example, the Scottish Qualifications Authority has worked on
the development of competency-based approaches including criterion-referenced assessment and have
developed relevant modular leaming materials.
- 15-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Over the last 3-4 years, successive Ministers of Education have requested assistance from the Bank for
systemic reform. During project preparation there was considerable support from the Ministry of Finanice,
and also from regional administrators for the objectives of the ERP. Preparation to date has also been
undertaken with the involvement not just of the MOE but with extensive involvement of regional
administration personnel and of members of the broader education community. Many working groups
have contributed to the policy debate in six key areas of reform and the process is guided by an
Inter-Ministerial Working Group composed of senior representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Finance
as well as Education.
The proposed project is also consistent with the Government's objectives incorporated in the Federal Plan,
the Development Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2010, where the section on Education Ref:crm
includes many recommendations in common with the Bank's sector work, including proposals to improve
quality and equity, reform school financing and improve the training of education administrators and school
staff. It also builds on the 2000-01 Economic Program of the Government of the Federation which states
education as the strategic priority of the government, and the introduction of the per capita allocation
mechanism as a target to reach this priority. The project will benefit from synergies with the Regional
Fiscal Technical Assistance project and the State Statistical System project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is probably the only intemational organization with sufficient resources to assist in a sector wide
policy reform in the education sector in the Russian Federation. The Bank has the capacity to mobilize and
consolidate other donor support. The project is complementary to the efforts both of the European Union,
especially relevant to the European Training Foundation's work on VET reform, and complements the
ongoing work of the Open Society Institute and the British Council.
The client has expressed respect for the professionalism and objectivity of the wide variety of the
international TA the Bank has brought to the preparation process to date.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
For a project such as this, where the objective is to assist in the systemic transformation of regions,
traditional cost-benefit analysis of is of limited use.  If the reforms to be piloted in this project are
successful, then the resulting regional economies will be transformed. There is limited information and
few analytical tools which will help in forecasting the result.  An examination of the additional
expenditures, savings and long-term retums of the proposed project indicates that it is justifiable on
economic grounds in relation to the reforms proposed for general education. In the case of the pilot reforms
proposed by the Government for the vocational education component, built-in monitoring and evaluation
(an integral part of the project) will provide feedback about labor market outcomes which will be of
- 16 -



significant value for other regions of the Russian Federation.
General Education. The restructuring of the schools network will create more cost-effective schools,
which are able to attract more funding under the per capita financing scheme. There are several potential
risks involved in restructuring the rural schools network: (a) reduction in access to education in small rural
areas, as municipalities fail to provide funding for a sustainable bus altemative; (b) some reduction in
employment of teaching and non-teaching staff (although this may be offset by opportunities for teachers to
be retrained); (c) no improvement in the quality of education provided by the newly equipped schools. The
piloting of rural schools restructuring is necessary to ensure that these risks are minimized and
restructuring takes place in full partnership with major stakeholders. The economic benefits of schools
network restructuring are however substantial. It can be estimated that, in the first year, the consolidation
of two schools in a small rural area can save up to 10 percent of the municipal budget for these two
schools, or 5 percent if there is investment in new equipment and refurbishment in the consolidated school.
Initial Vocational Education. The modernization of the network and creation of resource centers is
expected to increase efficiency of the initial vocational education system. The involvement of social
partners in the management of schools will ensure that programs are flexibly related to labor markets,
involve partners in sponsoring students and funding training programs, and improve placement possibilities
for students and graduates. Increased non-govermment funding will make more resources available for
initial vocational education. The training of the unemployed and of disabled youth will increase their
chances of obtaining jobs. The main risks are that resource centers will operate merely as superior
vocational schools, leaving the rest of the system behind, and by failing to make a full connection with
social partners will not fonrn the basis of a transition to an enterprise-linked training system. The piloting
of the reforms in three regions, where educational administrators and their advisers are fully aware of these
risks and have full ownership of the reform agenda, is intended to ensure that these risks are minimized.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The introduction of the per capita financing is expected to improve transparency in the budgetary allocation
process. At the regional level, the per capita scheme will help improvements in budgetary planning. At the
municipal level, the scheme will support more efficient allocative choices and provide greater incentives to
optimize the schools network. The costs of moving to this scheme are, however, substantial. In the initial
stage, the major costs will arise from building the capacity that is necessary prior to the scheme's full
implementation. These set up costs, which are funded by the project and the regions, are as follows:
adjustment of the legal and regulatory framework, development of a methodology for the per capita
financing computation, analysis/auditing of the budgetary allocation system, development of software to
compute the per capita financing scheme, development of learning material for training in financial
management, training needs analysis, training and re-training of regional and municipal administrators, and
school directors, and development of necessary procedures for school autonomy. After the initial stages,
costs should fall to a much more reasonable proportion, when the maintenance of training is required.
The implementation of per capita financing, combined with the restructuring of the schools network, can
generate substantial savings in the regional budget. It can be estimated that consolidated savings will
amount to up to 6 percent of total education expenditures in the first five years of reforms. Savings are
expected to fall after, as opportunities to benefit from school consolidation/closure to achieve a reasonable
- 17-



student/teacher ratio become scarcer.
Preliminary estimates suggest that the closure of 15 percent of initial vocational education schools could
allow a reduction of up to 14 percent in expenditures on staff and maintenance of buildings. This is
equivalent to a 9 percent reduction in the regional budget for initial vocational education. In additioi, a
rental income could be obtained from the buildings and land that had been vacated. The fiscal benefit fi om
schools network restructuring will depend on the pace and extent to which the regions increase studont/
teacher ratios.
3. Technical:
Quality Monitoring and Statistics. A Federal Center for Monitoring in Education (provisional title:, in
collaboration with three Regional Centers and a number of sub-regional branches, will creal  a
co-ordinated structure for statistics and quality monitoring. Basic statistical standards and indicators will
be developed at the federal level, in line with international practice, and disseminated through a consistent
approach to the collection and interpretation of education statistics at regional and sub-regional lexels.
Clear education statistics will be essential for the monitoring of trends in education quality, on the system
level (standards), the school level (curriculum, teaching, materials), and the student level (learring
achievement). The work done in Russia thus far on standards, curriculum and materials will help forn a
framework for this component. For student learning, a considerable number of experimental and
limited-scale models for the assessment of student learning already exist in Russia. The component xill
build on these by promoting technical capacity in statistical analysis and educational measurement at
federal level and in the three regions.
Training and Retraining. The financial and management reform introduced by this project will req lire
significant training support. The training solution is likely to involve centralized materials development and
training of facilitators because the target groups for training are large and geographically scattered. Modes
of delivery will need to match the circumstances of the target groups and may involve a range of deli" ery
mechanisms including the use of new information technologies (where appropriate), seminars, study to irs,
and tutor and/or study groups.
Courses for new professions and the development of transferable core skills. Although access to new
information technologies is rapidly increasing in parts of the Russian Federation, choice of mode: of
delivery must take into consideration the huge costs of providing the hardware required for online delix ery
throughout the Federation. Given the current economic circumstances, innovative ways will need to be
found to disseminate learning materials in a society with not only an unreliable postal system and no
educational television channels but also a relatively low rate of computer availability.
Dissemination Strategy.  The project design has also taken into account the difficulties in interaction
between the Regional and Federal Project Components. The development of a dissemination strategy is a
goal of the project and will have three broad objectives: (i) enable participating regions each to learn fi om
the other about successful initiatives and to act as a hub for dissemination in their immediate region; (ii)
develop reform models at federal level, using regional experience and international best practice; Jii)
disseminate best practice and lessons of experience from pilot regions to other regions within the Russian
Federation. Considerable donor involvement in project dissemination is foreseen.
- 18-



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency is the MOE and Regional Education Administrations, through the NTF. When the
EIP was being prepared the MOE had very limited knowledge of Bank projects. However, in recent years,
the MOE has gained considerable experience in working with the Bank, through on-going policy dialogue,
contribution to and dissemination of sector work, implementation of the EIP, and during preparation of the
proposed project. The MOE has also assumed a more proactive role in supervising the management of the
NTF and in ensuring that both the existing and proposed project will be implemented satisfactorily. The
Regional Education Administrations have participated in project preparation (including numerous
workshops) and have become familiar with Bank requirements. The increased capacity of the MOE, in
addition to the Strategic Committee, along with and intemational and national TA for the regional PIUs
will facilitate smooth implementation.
4.2 Project management:
The recent restructuring of the NTF will enhance its effectiveness as a PIU and increase its education
focus. The staffing levels and skills mix proposed for the project appear satisfactory. The presence of an
active Strategic Committee and Operational Manual will also facilitate good project management.
Regional PIUs will be provided with sufficient training and mentoring from the NTF as well as with
intemational and national TA to ensure capacity building. The potential of disseminating the experience of
procurement, project and financial management to other parts of the public sector is very attractive to each
of the regions and will enhance the sustainability of the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Capacity assessment was carried out in January 2001. This assessment outlines action
plans for systems and staff development which has been integrated in the project implementation plan.
Implementation of previous Bank projects has provided the NTF Procurement department with a basis to
manage procurement under the proposed loan. Additional qualified staff will be recruited. Staff training
for the regional PIUs was initiated through the pre-appraisal workshop and supplemented by a tailored
procurement seminar conducted by WB Moscow procurement staff in the autumn 2000. Procurement
plans, have been reviewed and indicate that the project staff skills are developing satisfactorily. Staff
training for the regional PIUs, and upgrading for the federal level PIU will be financed by the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment for the Russian Federation will be prepared in FY2001.
Any weaknesses that may exist in financial management capacity in Russia have been mitigated for this
project through the use of an existing PIU, experienced in financial management, and through the selection
of qualified auditors eligible to conduct audits of Bank assisted projects.
A Financial Management Capacity assessment was carried out for the project and a summary of the report
is included in Annex 6. The NTF has a satisfactory track record for traditional Bank disbursement. All
projects for which NTF is implementing agency are in compliance with auditing covenants of the respective
Loan Agreements.
An action plan for strengthening the financial management systems of the project has been fulfilled. As
with procurement, staff training for the regional PIUs, and upgrading for the federal and regional level PIU
- 19-



will be financed by the project. The financial management systems of the project meet minimum financial
management requirements of the Bank.
Special Account. Following the financial crisis of August 1999 the Government of Russia reduced the list
of Banks eligible to house IBRD Special Accounts. At the time of assessment the list of Banks was limited
to three Government-owned commercial banks: Sberbank, Vneshtorgbank, Vnesheconombank. The
Government and IBRD continue to monitor the performance of the banking sector. The PIU will open a
Special Account in one of the eligible banks. It is recommended that regional PIUs open their Regional
Project Accounts (to hold their advance of the Special Account) in one of the eligible banks as well, with
replenishments to be made on a monthly basis.
5. Environmental:                  Environmnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Sunmmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This project has been assigned an Environmental Category C rating since it is a capacity building project.
Some minor civil works, US$ 4.7 million, will be funded, however they are limited to: cosmetic
improvements of existing schools; and updating power supply and communications systems in existing
schools and offices to introduce information technology. All identified schools/offices and improvements to
be financed will be included in the Operational Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA,
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
This project will reduce educational disparities in three selected regions, by minimizing disadvantages due
to urban/rural location, and by improving access to certain types of education that provide preferential
routes to further and higher education. To maximize social benefits, special attention has been paid during
project preparation to the following elements:
Assessment and Quality Monitoring System    Statistics: Improved, systematic, indicator-linked
information about trends in education will help policy-makers, parents and students make informed
decisions. Assessment. Selection and competition are now the main purposes of learner assessment,
certainly in the public eye and also from the point of view of universities and parents. If general education
- 20 -



(except perhaps the secondary/tertiary interface), were to shift to a more criterion-referenced,
standards-linked and competence-based approach, it will require a major change in public perception of
'quality' as it applies not only to the 'best' students but to students of all abilities at all levels. The social
impact of such a shift could be substantial.
Per capita budgetary allocation mechanism. The per capita financing scheme has been designed to take
into account unit cost differences between urban and rural areas, and selected characteristics of students.
The implementation of the scheme will reveal quite sharply schools which are financially unviable and
require closure/restructuring. This risk is particularly serious in view of the tight budgetary environment
under which the scheme will be piloted.
Restructuring of the schools network in rural areas. As rural schools often emerge as the only center for
cultural and intellectual development of the rural population, school consolidation will have to proceed
gradually, in full and transparent partnership with the local population, directors and teachers.
Improving the market relevance of initial vocational education. In the case of initial vocational
education, the social benefits of improving quality and links with the labor market will be considerable, in
the form of well-paid jobs for graduates who might otherwise become unemployed and/or cause social
problems. Retraining courses for unemployed and special vocational training for students with disabilities
will yield comparable social benefits. The proposed shifting of the burden of funding initial vocational
education from government to beneficiaries will yield benefits, but there is a risk that students from poor
households may be put at a disadvantage. This could be dealt with by waiving fees for courses for such
students or ensuring that they are included in employer sponsorship arrangement.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been developed with the active participation of regional, municipal and school level
members of the education community in Russia as well as with the ongoing analysis of about 40 Russian
economists and educators.  It is intended that the continued participation of local educators and parents
will be supported during the lifetime of the project through public commnittees which will monitor project
outcomes at local level. Regular surveys on completion of each stage are planned for the pilot regions.
Information from these surveys will be made available to the Social Monitoring Committee which will be
set up as part of the Federal Component, as will public information activities to disseminate these
experiences to a wider audience.
During project preparation, comprehensive social assessments were carried out in all three participating
regions. This objective of these assessments was to understand the concems of beneficiaries about the
current state of education services and to gauge their views about the proposed reforns in the education
sector. The resulting detailed reports address, inter alia, the longer term needs of the beneficiaries.
The main conclusion of the social assessment process is that, in general, the education reform proposed by
Government and supported by the proposed ERP will have broadly positive effects. Public perception is
that the main outcome of the proposed reform would be greater equity in access to good quality educational
services. Parents, in particular, would welcome the prospect of better educational opportunities for their
children in improved schools provided that adequate transport were supplied by local government.
A major concern highlighted by the social assessment is the present situation where equity of access to
good quality education services for rural communities is already perceived as a problem. Stakeholders
surveyed perceived that the main threat of the proposed reform would be that its goals might be
emasculated at local level with incomplete outcomes. This situation could then lead to increased inequality
and the risk of further undermining the village community. However, while the destruction of the
- 21 -



community is discussed as a risk, it is clear that many parents who care about the education of their
children, already send them to schools outside the community. In addition, some communities, especially in
the Chuvash Republic, worried about a dilution of traditional local culture. Raion administrators, whose
budgets might be adversely affected by the reform of education financing, had the most negative reac ions.
The project design has been in some cases modified based on the findings of the social assessments. For
example, rural schools in small villages will not be closed as a matter of principal but may be retain-d as
kindergartens or converted into community centers.
The social assessment also includes recommendations to introduce: (i) a system of quality contrcl for
educational institutions, teachers and learners; (ii) reliable and easy-to-use educational statistics; and i iii) a
system to increase participation and monitor progress in the education reform process. The pioject
includes all these activities.
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. There is wide public concern about the negative e.-fects
of chronic under-funding on the quality of Russian education. Parents, students and teachers already
perceive that the quality of their schools is being eroded by lack of resources and increasingly by a sense of
apathy and lack of direction. The project's emphasis on quality improvement through better stan('.ards,
better measurement of and feedback about learner achievement, teacher training, and better use of financial
resources is therefore likely to be well received.
Teachers' work load and working conditions are likely to be affected by some of the project's activities, and
early dialogue with and involvement of teachers and teachers' associations are essential (consultation and
collaboration for communities and teachers). Reform of local government responsibilities will be part c f the
first stage of the project. This reform will support increased local community and education professLonal
community involvement into the management of education.
Other key stakeholders. While higher education is not covered by this Project, universities do have a
major interest in proposed changes to procedures and requirements that relate to higher education entramce.
Experience in other countries in the region shows that the early involvement of university representatives in
the development of those changes is essential for their eventual acceptance by universities as well as
schools and parents.
Social partners (employers and professional organizations) have a major interest in the proposed reforras of
initial vocational education, particularly the proposal to involve them in the management of schools andi the
design, content and assessment of courses.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Regular consultations will be held at local level in the three pilot regions with parents' and teachers' grc ups
and local community leaders.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Technical expertise and support to the PIUs will be funded by the project for development and
implementation of monitoring and evaluation processes (through the use of trained independent social
science researchers). These researchers will assist the federal and regional PIUs in establishing a
computerized monitoring system, in the gathering of base-line statistical data on education in the regions
(from state and departmental sources) and in monitoring the progress of the re-structuring process, with
particular emphasis on the social aspects of the reform process. Core elements of the monitoring and social
assessment process are indicated in the following chart.
- 22 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Type of data and analysis       Conducted by                Reported to           Frequency
Statistical data analysis       Local teams of sociologists  Regional PIUs        Quarterly
Sample surveys in pilot regions  Local teams of sociologists  Regional PlUs       Bi-quarterly
Analysis of the regional statistics and Social Assessment experts/    Federal PlUs  Bi-quarterly
survey data                     project consultants at the
federal level
Qualitative panel studies in the  SA experts/ project consultants Federal PIUs,   One region in a
regions                         at the federal level        Regional PIUs         quarter
Region-wide surveys and qualitative  Research agency/ SA experts!  Federal PlUs,  Yearly or on an
studies                         project consultants at the  Regional PIUs         ad-hoc basis
federal level
Quarterly and annual project management reports will be prepared (in English and Russian) for
stakeholders summarizing expenditures and progress and highlighting any implementation issues.
Formal project evaluations and social assessments will also be carried out during the life of the project, at
project completion and ex post. These would focus on the extent to which the overall project objectives are
being met. Particular attention will be paid to the evaluation of social impacts and outcomes of proposed
education reforms in the three pilot regions on consumers (parents, pupils), and key stakeholders (teachers,
social partners, Raion administrators and local community leaders). Evaluation will also focus on equity,
economic, organizational, environmental and other policy impacts. The findings of the evaluation studies
will provide a basis for planned dissemination of the outcomes and learning from the ERP components.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)               O Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                 0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Proiects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)       0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)             0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not Applicable.
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Expenditures on education in the Russian Federation are grossly inadequate to finance the same rang and
level of education services historically provided by the public sector. The key challenge for the sector is to
improve and modernize education service delivery, primarily through major but attainable increaces in
efficiency.
Policy measures supported in the project are expected to improve stability and efficiency of education
service provision in three regions of the Russian Federation.  These pilot projects should establish
conditions which would be replicable in other regions on a sustainable level. Implementation of the per
capita based financing system may pose difficulty at first but the impact will be mitigated through the
savings expected to accrue to regional budgets in the medium term.  Economic analysis is expected to
demonstrate positive return on the project. The project will not generate significant incremental recurrent
costs. Any incremental recurrent costs are expected to be offset by savings from efficiency improvements.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex I':
Risk                    Rlst  Rating           RikMittionio M001
From Outputs to Objective
Unclear role of MOE as leaders of reform    S         The Federal component on educational policy
in general and initial vocational education           reform will build capacity to lead the system.
Capacity of regions to (i) manage           M         Engage in regular policy discussions and
education reform and (ii) to finance the              strengthen management capacity at Regional
costs of reform and repay loans                       Administration level.
From Components to Outputs
Quality Monitoring and Statistics:          S
(i) Lack of technical know-how and                    Substantial TA and training funded by project.
trained specialists in educational                    Co-ordinate timing and content among federal
measurement, especially in the regions                and regional groups
(ii) Lack of co-ordination among different  M         Clear guidelines and co-ordinated training in line
agencies in collecting, processing,                   with Russian and international conventions and
analysis and dissemination of education               requirements to be supported by project.
statistics relating to internationally valid
indicators
Restructuring of initial vocational schools
network:
- 24 -



(ii) Regional authorities may be tempted     M         Commitment of regional authonities to
to use equipment purchased under project               competency based learning. Bank review of
for production rather than predominantly               equipment lists, supervision visits and progress
training purposes                                      reports.
(iii) Social partnerships may take           M         Dissemination of lessons learned on partnerships
advisory rather than fully participatory               in other VET projects in Russia and
form.                                                  intemationally.
Inclusion of adjustments to regulatory
framework in the project will enable social
partners to participate in school management
and funding decisions.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risks                                   Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measures
Duma opposition against Bank involvement    M        Regular meetings with Duma
in education standards                               Education Committee.
Dissatisfaction of teachers will block      M        Public relations effort will make
systemic reform                                      process of reform transparent and
explain that reform of system will
ultimately benefit teachers by
bringing about better working
conditions and training
opportunities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    The Regional PIUs have been legally established and have become operational, with facilities,
resources, and staffing satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)    The Operational Manual has been adopted by NTF; and
(c)    The Project Implementation Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and NTF and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly executed by the Borrower and at least two of the
Participating Regions.
- 25 -



Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly executed by the Borrower and at least two of the
Participating Regions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Execution of the Project: The Borrower shall cause the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Borrower and each Participating Region to come into effect, not later than within six months from the date
of Loan Effectiveness.
Condition of Disbursement: Payments for expenditures by any Participating Region will not be made jntil
until evidence is submitted to the Bank regarding satisfactory progress in the achievement of the targets set
forth in the Participating Region's implementation plan with respect to per capita financing of general
education.
H. Readiness for Implementation
FI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
FO 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
g 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Other than consultants being hired under the Portfolio Development Loan, no major procurement is
scheduled for the project start-up period. The procurement documents for the first year's activities (umder
the Loan) are under preparation. TORs and specifications are ready, and standard documents will be used.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
g 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
F] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
a  L                    G6                    Ay           J
Mary  anning                      ames A. Socknat                  Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Provision of improved      Improved quality of       Education Indicators      Gains in efficiency in resource
education services and more   education.             (fiscal, quantitative and  allocation translate into
efficiently managed public                           qualitative)              higher quality
resources for education    Improved access to
education.
Improved public satisfaction  Surveys               Stable, predictable and
with education system.                             transparent funding of
education during lifetime of
project.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improve efficiency and access
to good quality education in
the Russian Federation.
(i) Support education policy  Standard education indicators Annual review of progress    Government remains
development, evaluation and  improve yearly in the life of  and accomplishments at  committed to education
dissemination at Federal level. the project starting from 2004. federal level  reform
Quality Monitoring and    Mid Term and end of project
Educational Statistics    evaluation
Guidelines developed,
implemented and
disseminated.
Education policy development Annual reports
capacity built within the
Ministry of Education and
within the professional
community
(ii) Improve the quality,  Standard education indicators Mid Term and end of project
efficiency, relevance, equity   with equitable access for rural evaluation
and access of the educational  populations improve yearly in
system in three regions of the  three pilot regions in the life  Annual monitoring of quality
Russian Federation.       of the project starting from    outcomes to assess equity of
2003.                     access
Improved labor market     School leavers' employment
relevance of initial vocational
education.
- 27 -



Hierarchy of Obeti-es i           1 atQrs            Monitoring &t EvalL0 luatnion    QriC ltat A5umptions 
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Federal Component:
Policy Redesign and Quality
improvement at thefederal
level
(i) Education policy reform    Govemment guidelines for   Annual reports (from 2003)   The Ministry of edtucation
and dissemination;        improved and more efficient                           supports project outcomes
education services developed                         dissemination on a national
by year 2003.                                        level.
New methods of allocating    Annual reports (from 2003)
resources introduced in #
additional regions.
(ii) Establishment of an  Quality Monitoring and     Annual reports from the    The Ministry of Education
institutional and legal   Education Statistics Service   QMES Service starting from   and Goskomstat cooperate
framework for a           established.               2003                       effectively.
standards-based quality
monitoring system and                                                           The existing education
statistics;                                                                     statistics service is
restructured.
(iii) Modem teacher and   # of training course materials  Mid Term and end of project
education management      developed, published and   evaluation.
training;                 disseminated.
## experts trained in
education economics,
sociology, policy.
# courses in key competencies
and new professions
(iv) Development of leaming  developed and in use.   Mid Term and end of project
materials for new professions                        evaluation
and core (for vocational
education).
2. Regional Component:
Efficient allocation of   Per capita budgetary       Analysis and review of data   Reforms of mecha-iism of
resources and improved,   allocation system introduced  in 3 pilot regions based on    budget allocation are
market relevant education  and implemented in        Operational Manual         complemented by iverall
services in three regions.  participating regions.                              reforms in intergoveemmental
finance.
- 28 -



2.1.2. More efficient     Improved allocative choices at Annual analysis of regional,  Improved autonomy and
governance and management the municipal and school   and municipal education    accountability in the school
capacity in place         levels, including increased    budgets.               budget will give school
financial autonomy of schools                        directors greater incentives to
( # of schools with       Analysis of resource       make rational decisions about
independent bank accounts)  allocations in schools with   the best use of resources
autonomous budget process.
Improved accountability of the
school director.
Establishment of School   Annual Report
Boards (percentage of schools
with active Governing
Bodies).
Percentage of school directors,
municipal and regional
administrators trained in
general and financial
management
2.1.3. Quality Assurance and  Indicators agreed      Mid Term and end of project
Monitoring systems        and publicly available and    evaluation
developed.                reliable statistical data
available for use by
stakeholders (by year 2004).
2.2. General education system  Newly equipped rural schools Annual Report
(structure of network and  (percentage from the agreed
institutions) modemized.  plan)                      Annual social assessment
surveys
# of rural schools clusters
created                   Annual bi-quarterly analysis
of performance monitoring
# of rural schools reconverted data (starting from 2004)
into community centers
End of project output and
Urban general education   outcome evaluation
schools restructured
(percentage from the agreed
plan)
- 29 -



2.3 1. Initial vocational    Greater # students find      Annual monitoring reports    Lack of relevant s(ill is a
education system modernized. employment (including those  incorporating local labor    major cause of
with disabilities).          market surveys and           unemployment.
information from social
Greater # of graduates from    partners                   Improvement in q tality and
improved retraining courses                               relevance of vocal onal
for unemployed find                                       education and stronger links
employment.                                               with social partnei s
(including involvement in
management, func ing, course
design, assessmen , and job
placement) will m ike
graduates more en ployable.
Modules on transf;rable core
skills and courses n new
professions will be developed
and used, and will enhance
employment prosp -cts of
graduates.
Newly equipped cl nters and
upgraded training materials
will attract Emplo,iment
Service funding fcr retraining
courses.
3. Project Management
Project implemented in a     Achievement of key           Quarterly progress reports   Qualified staff rec uited,
timely and effective manner   performance indicators and                               retained and traini. d in both
with stakeholder satisfaction.  agreed development        Annual Audit                 Federal and Regio ial PlUs.
objectives.
Satisfactory project
performance ratings.
- 30 -



:.-________-M                          00 g . s on.  -CrSkal Assumptins
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Federal Component      US$11.2 million
- Consultant Services
- Goods
2. Regional Component     US$ 41.3 million
- Consultant Services
- Goods
- Works
3. Project Management     US$ 6.6 million
Component                    - Consultant Services
- Goods
- PIU Operating Costs
Front end fee             US$ 0.5 million
Contingencies             US$ 0.2 million
Applicable taxes and duties   US$ 11.3 million
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
The project will support the education reform strategy of the Russian govermment which aims to improve
efficiency and access to good quality education throughout the Russian Federation. The project will build
capacity for education policy development at federal level. It will pilot a set of reformns in genern.l and
initial vocational education, in three very different regions of Russia: a donor region (Samara Oblast), a
region with an average level of development (Yaroslavl Oblast), and a recipient region (net recipient of
transfers from the federal budget) with a strong nationalistic identity (the Chuvash Republic). A mechamism
to support the dissemination of successful experience of education reform to other regions of the Russian
Federation will also be developed.
Pilot regions in perspective
Samara Oblast, with 79 per cent of its population in urban areas, is one of Russia's main centers of
machine-building, aerospace, chemical, petrochemical, automobile, and power industries, and one of the
most attractive regions for foreign investors, with low economic and political risks. Its success in attracting
investment reflects the progress it has made in economic reform, particularly property rights. It is one of
the few regions which make a net contribution to the federal budget. Its advanced industrial technologies
and fast rate of economic and socio-political transformation are reflected in a high demand for educated
workers. Its unemployment rate, at less than 9 per cent, is well below the national average.
Yaroslavl Oblast is also highly urbanized (82 per cent) and with a relatively high average income. In
1999 it received no subsidy from the federal budget (although this trend appears to have been reversed in
2000), and it attracts labor and capital from neighboring regions. Its fastest growing sectors in recent years
have been services and tourism, but two thirds of its employed population are still in industry, particiilarly
machine building, metal working, oil, chemicals, and food processing. More than 65 per cent of workers
are in the non-state sector, most of them wage employees. Its unemployment rate, at over 11 per cent, is
only slightly below the national average.
The Chuvash Republic is one of the Federation's most densely populated regions. It is also one of the
least urbanized - with 39 per cent of its population still in rural areas - and has an unusually well
developed road network. Agriculture is still an important sector - the region produces 80 per cent of
Russia's hops. Industrial production, which had slumped in the first half of the 1990s, has reviv.-d in
recent years, including the huge tractor factory, machine building, textiles, chemicals, furniture and food
processing. The region's construction industry is particularly highly developed. Nevertheless, the Chuvash
Republic is a subsidized region, dependent on transfers from the federal budget, and a net exporter of labor.
Its unemploymnent rate, at almost 14 per cent, is higher than the national average.
- 32 -



Table 1. Regions in Perspective
Samara Oblast   Yaroslavl Oblast Chuvash Republic
Demographic indicators                          3,305.0           1,425.0            1,362
Total population, 1999 (in thousands)           2.3                1.0              0.9
(in percent of Russia's population)              1.4              -1.8              1.8
(in percent change, 1989/97)                   21.0               18.0             39.0
(percent in rural areas)                        -2.1              -5.1               1.0
Natural increase (percent change)
Economic Indicators
Gross regional product per capita (1998,   21,968.0            15,487             8,122
rubles)                                        58.2              32.4              30.4
Real industrial output growth (%, 1996/90)     52.6              22.7               31
Growth in investments (%, 1996/90)              8.6              11.1              13.9
Unemployment rate, 1998 (%)                    13.0              22.1               49
Unemployment per one vacancy                1,161.0             888.0              600
Average wage (1998, rubles per month)          21.2              21.3              27.3
Poverty (share in population, %)
Fiscal Indicators
Total revenues (1996, rubles per capita)     1042.0             860.0             811.0
Total expenditures (1996, rubles per capita)  1061.0            869.0             859.0
Deficit (1996, rubles per capita)             -19.0              -9.0             -48.0
Transfers and loans from federal budget        15.0             140.0             177.0
(1996, rubles per capita)
Expenditures on education, 1996
(in thousands rubles)                      1,767.0             565.0            491.0
(in percent total expenditures)              22.9               18.6             23.4
Sources: World Bank Technical Papers No 452 and 457, and Goskomstat, Regions of Russia, 1999.
Each of these regions is committed to educational reform although each has different systems of education
financing and management and different plans for restructuring the general and vocational school systems.
The selection of these pilot regions is expected to yield a range of experiences which will be valuable in
other regions of Russia.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$11.20 million
FEDERAL COMPONENT
The objective of this component is to support: (i) capacity development at federal level for education
policy reform and for the dissemination of lessons learnt from successful regional pilots; (ii) monitoring and
improvement of quality and statistics; (iii) modem education management training; and (iv) development of
core skills and learning materials.   The component will finance international and national technical
assistance for all four sub components, together with related necessary equipment.
- 33 -



Sub-component 1.1. Education Policy Reform
This sub-component will: (i) build capacity in the MOE to implement and disseminate throughle ut the
Russian Federation, successful reform models for general and initial vocational education based on the pilot
initiatives in this project; (ii) assist in effecting appropriate changes to the regulatory framework; ar d (iii)
set up a project monitoring and evaluation system which would monitor project outcomes and evalu.te the
impact of the project on federal and regional education systems.
Sub-component 1.2. Quality Monitoring and Statistics
This sub-component will develop capacity at the federal level to: (i) establish a quality monitorirg and
assurance system; and (ii) develop performance indicators, and collect and analyze educational statistics to
monitor these indicators over time, in order to provide institutions, authorities and the public with imely
information. The objective is to create a capacity to improve both the quality of the educational proc -ss, as
well as outcome quality as reflected in student achievement on standards-linked tests and other ;igreed
indicators. The project will focus on creating an assessment and quality monitoring system based on sets of
federal and Regional standards in a small number of core compulsory subjects. The work done :n this
component will be useful for the introduction of a national examination system, as foreseen in the Mi:iistry'
s Strategy. Assessments will focus on core competencies rather than on specified curriculum content.
Sub-component 1.3. Training and Retraining
Plans to devolve some aspects of education management, including responsibility for school-level buidgets,
to the school level will require increased management skills on the part of school directors in order fot them
to meet the demands both for financial control and of quality measurement. As schools gain greater
autonomy, it is also necessary to train school directors in financial management, a need which v 'ill be
shared by the education administration personnel in local govemment offices. This sub-componert will
support the development of methodologies, resource materials, appropriate delivery mechanisms and re-lated
capacity building for training and retraining educational administrators and school directors related to the
implementation of the proposed project reforms.
The project has also identified a need to develop national capacity in the fields of education policy analysis,
sociology of education, educational measurement and education economics. Best practice will be acc essed
through participation of a small and select group of educationalists undertaking specific intensive training
both at the federal level and institutions abroad.
Sub-component 1.4. Courses for new professions and teaching and learning materials to dcvelop
work-related core skills
This sub-component will address the need for new training materials for initial vocational education. t will
support: (i) the development of programs for new professions for which there is a common need in the three
regions; (ii) the development of competency-based, modular, learning materials; and (iii) the integrat on of
broad work-related key competencies in initial vocational education. The leaming materials developed at
the federal level will provide models for regional development of additional courses.
- 34 -



Project Component 2 - US$41.30 million
REGIONAL COMPONENT
The objective of this component, is to: (i) improve public resources management (component 2.1); (ii)
modernize the general schools network (component 2.2); and (iii) improve the flexibility and market
relevance of vocational education (component 2.3) in the three Participating Regions. Each region has
tailored an appropriate set of actions to accomplish these core objectives.
Sub-component 2.1. Efficient and Equitable Public Resources Management
This sub-component will pilot reforms to improve the efficiency and equitable use of public resources for
education, in 3 regions. The project will: (i) introduce and develop a transparent mechanism to allocate
regional budgetary resources for education; (ii) improve the governance and management capacity at the
regional, municipal and school levels; and (iii) promote an education quality assurance and management
information and statistics system. This set of reforms will promote freedom of choice while preserving fair
and equal access to high quality education for all.
2.1.1. Per Capita Budgetary Allocation System
The objective of this sub-component, which will be implemented in each Participating Region, is to
introduce and develop a transparent mechanism to allocate regional budgetary resources, based on the "
money follows the student" principle - also referred as per capita or "normative" financing. Per capita
financing provides a publicly transparent and equitable way to distribute limited budgetary resources
available among schools, by putting a "price" on the head of each student. The financing formulae will be
adjusted to reflect the fact that education needs of students vary considerably, depending on individual and
geographical characteristics. For each region, this sub-component will finance goods and services
including international and national TA.
2.1.2. Governance and Management Capacity Building
The objective of this sub-component is to build general and financial management capacity at the regional,
municipal and school levels through: (i) strengthening financial autonomy at school level; (ii) the provision
of management and accountancy training; (iii) the support of public involvement in school management;
and (iv) support services for the adjustment of the regulatory framework to facilitate project reforms.
Improvement of the use of scarce public resources and increased participation of major stakeholders will
assist legal and financial autonomy and accountability at the school level.
The sub-component will provide the TA and equipment needed in each region for the successful
introduction of the decentralized management system. In-service training will be provided for regional and
raion education administrators and school managers through training modules common to each region;
school-based accounting offices will be set up, equipped, and staffed with appropriately trained personnel;
and support will be provided to enable the required reform-related adjustments to regional regulatory
frameworks. An education management information system will be established to provide effective
decentralized management.  Support would also be provided to encourage public and social partner
involvement in school management.
- 35 -



2.1.2. Governance    Objective 1.        Objective 2.      Objective 3.      Objective 4.
and Management       Strengthening       Management &      The support of    Revision of
Capacity Building    financial autonomy    Accountancy     public            Regulatory
at school level     Training          involvement in    framework
school
management
Chuvash Republic     General Schools
195 independent    By 2003, 460       33 Boards of     Documentation io
accounting offices;   general school  Trustees at      regulate the
a further 62 for a  managers, 290     school level, 4 at  introduction of per
cluster of 3-6     school            the municipal     capita financing for
schools; remainder   accountants and    level and I    the general
covered by          87 school budget   republican Board  education systeri.
centralized         officers will be  of Trustees
accounting         trained.           Improvement of
contract. Legal     New               Regional
and training        management        Legislation
documentation       model for initial
vocational
education.
VET
administrator
training
Samara Oblast        By the beginning of   1700 individuals   Improvement of   Development of the
2000, 70% of        will be trained in   Boards of      legal framework:
general schools had   19 municipal    Trustees in      for the
current accounts in   districts       general schools    participation of
banks. 100% of     (including budget  and introduction   social partners in
schools will be     personnel in      of Social        the design and
covered by Year [x]   Regional, Raion    Partnerships to  management of
and Municipal     manage           Vocational
Specialized         Departments and   Vocational       education.
Speclahzed     School staff      education
accounting systems         .                            [common to thre-e
for Vocational      engaged in        schools.          regions]
education          financiag           Management
information and
Training to       monitoring
include          system.
vocational        Consulting
services to
managers          disseminate
experience
outside the
Region.
- 36 -



Yaroslavl Oblast      2000 accounting     Training           Boards of         New legislative and
offices in general  seminars in 19     Trustees at      legal docurnents,
schools.            municipal          school municipal  for restructuring
districts for 100    and regional   the vocational
general school    level.            system. [common
managers and 75                     to all regions]
school auditors.    Local and       Model contracts
regional          with potential
100 teachers      stakeholders      social partners;
retrained as      contribute to     legal documents for
accountants.      education funds.  the Center for
Certification of
Training          Social            Qualifications;
packages for      partnership with   proposals for tax
Vocational        public            incentives to
education         organizations for  industry for
financial         vocational        workplace training.
management.       education
system.
VET
administrator
training
2.1.3. Quality Assurance, Statistics and Monitoring
The governance and administration of education is highly fragmented, making policy and qualitative
reforms difficult to coordinate.   Detailed information on the system  and its financing is not readily
available and information that does exist is not used to support decision-making in the sector. Ensuring the
availability of reliable performance financial and administrative information is a pre-requisite to beginning
a productive dialogue on the need for and expected outcomes of education reform. This sub-component
will provide the necessary technical assistance and equipment to enable regional and municipal
administration offices to introduce: (i) a uniform system of quality monitoring, including the monitoring of
student achievement on the basis of standards in core subjects; (ii) a regional education statistical system;
and (iii) an information system on education, with special emphasis on school and student performance
over time. The quality monitoring and statistics collection and analysis mechanisms suppotted by the
project at regional level will fit within the framework of the mechanism set up under the Federal
component
- 37 -



2.1.3. Quality,        Objective 1.              Objective 2.           Objective 3.
Assurance, Statistics    Quality Monitoring      Regional statistical   Public Information
and Monitoring                                   system                 System
Chuvash Republic       General School            Regional education     Education Developmert
performance and student    statistical system (in  Center (32 urban and
achievement monitoring;    conjunction with the  Raion departments + one
management information    quality monitoring     central service).
system*                  system)*                School performance
informnation, available
through local mass media
Samara Oblast          Regional Educational      Regional education     Computerized system f'or
Quality Monitoring       statistical system (in  monitoring the
Center*                  conjunction with the    performance of genera]
quality monitoring     and Vocational education
system)*
Yaroslavl Oblast       Regional Center for       Regional education     Special program of
Quality Assurance and    statistical system (in  cooperation between
Monitoring (with 19      conjunction with the    parents and Boards of
municipal branches) *    quality monitoring      Trustees and mass med a
system)*
' Linked with the Federal system of quality control and statistical analysis
Sub-component 2.2 Modernization and Restructuring of the General Schools Network
The objective of this component is to increase efficiency and quality of education through the
rationalization of the general schools' network and institutions, while preserving equitable access to
education. The project will pilot the restructuring of the general education schools network and will
support: (i) the creation of rural schools clusters with appropriate transportation services; and (ii) the
creation of educational districts (associations of educational institutions) or school clusters to provi,le a
range of educational services for the local population. The project will finance the technical assistance,
goods, including school buses, and civil works necessary for the implementation of the proposed
restructuring.
- 38 -



2.2.1 Rural Schools Clusters
Consolidated schools will be established to serve children from grade 5-11 from neighboring schools by
providing them with a better quality of education and adequate bus transportation. These schools will be
endowed with modem equipment, textbooks and computers. They will be accessible within 10-15 minutes
of public transportation for children of grade 5 to 9, and within 3040 minutes for children of grade 10-11.
Non-viable schools will be restructured: they will continue to provide initial education and will be
reconverted into to kindergartens and community centers.
2.2.2 Education Districts
Two kinds of education districts may be created to provide a range of educational services to both urban
and rural populations. In one model, several territories would be consolidated into one education district.
The head of the education district will appoint directors of schools and ensure that the municipal interests
are aligned with the state educational policy. The consolidation of several territories will enable the
creation of a solid educational system within the district, including pre-school, general, initial and
secondary education, as well as advanced and specialized education. The second model which would
propose a change in the nature of some institutions will cluster schools so that one school would have a
single function as a initial school, another as a middle school and another as a high school. Some other
education institutions serving this age group could also be part of such cluster: e.g. schools for children
with special needs; extracurricular clubs.
2.2. Restructuring of    Objective 2.2.1.                  Objective 2.2.2.
the General             Rural Schools Clusters             Education Districts
Education Schools
Network
Chuvash Republic        Creation of rural schools clusters  Education districts model will provide a
with appropriate transportation    range of services to the population.
services will provide equal access to
modem, improved education for
rural children.
Samara Oblast          Re-structuring the network of rural    The legal base for the creation of education
schools.                           districts, according to the one of the
following models will be developed;
(i) one city plus five rural areas; (ii) one
city plus two rural areas; (iii) one city plus
one rural area.
Clusters of local schools will be established
Yaroslavl Oblast       Restructuring of the rural school   District schemes for large cities (Yaroslavl
network. School busing program.    Oblast, Rybinsk); small towns (Tutayev,
Danilov, Gavrilov-Yam, Rostov, Uglich,
Pereslavl); rural territories (17 municipal
districts). Different associations (clusters)
of educational institutions, "educational
complexes" planned.
- 39 -



Sub-component 23. Modernization of Initial Vocational Schools and Improvement in the Market
Relevance of Vocational education
The objective of this component is to improve the flexibility, quality and market relevance of initial
vocational education. This will be achieved in two ways: (i) the restructuring of the vocational scnIools
network and (ii) the modernization of the course content of vocational education to respond to market
needs.
2.3.1. Restructuring of Vocational Schools Network and Rationalization of their Educational Profiles
This sub-component will stimulate the restructuring of the existing network of schools. This restructiring
will include rationalization of school profiles, some horizontal and vertical amalgamation, closures of
non-viable schools and the creation of clusters of vocational schools accessing multi-function,
well-equipped resource centers. These multi purpose best practice centers will provide access to learning
materials, resources, and modem equipment and production machinery for training purposes in
occupational areas for which the regions have human resource development needs. They will also provide
venues for vocational skills testing, and be a base for teacher training, course development inforrnatior. and
dissemination. In some cases they will provide courses for students with disabilities, the adult population
and vocational training courses for general schools. Because of upgrading of facilities, resources, and the
materials base, these centers are expected to 're-attract' Employment Fund courses in retraining for the
unemployed.
The project will finance the necessary planning, goods, civil works and services, including intemational and
national technical assistance. The capacity for labor market surveys, analysis of the region's economy and
the demand for key specializations will be developed across all three regions. Study tours to observe
resource centers in Northwest Russia and in other countries will be organized together with other regions.
Resource center workers and specialists in marketing of educational services will be trained.
- 40 -



2.3.1. Restructuring of Vocational   Objectiv
Schools Network and Rationalization     je
of their Educational Profiles        Stimulate the restructuring of the existing network of schools
Chuvash Republic      Restructuring will involve amalgamating schools with similar
Chuvash Republic                     occupational specialization and linking all schools to resource
centers, 11 of which will be set up in the region. As a result 4 out
of 29 schools will close and 5 will be amalgamated. The centers
will cover the following industries: metal work, electronics, radio
equipment, electrical devices, food processing, construction,
catering, services, logging and wood processing, light industry,
and crafts.
Samara Oblast                          11 resource centers will be established to support ongoing
rationalization of the vocational schools network by providing
access to learning materials, training equipment, and assessment
facilities.
The specializations covered by the resource centers will include:
auto; aerospace, mechanical engineering and metal working;
petrochemicals; agriculture and food processing; building;
tourism; road construction; services; and small business.
13 resource centers will be established in the region to support
ongoing rationalization of the initial vocational school network,
with the following specializations: machine-building, electronic
equipment, services, trade and commerce, automobile servicing,
electrical equipment, welding, agriculture and construction. Three
of these centers will cater for students with disabilities. Six more
schools will close in the 2002-5 period.
2.3 2. Improvement in the Market Relevance of Vocational Education
The objective of this sub-component is to improve the flexibility, quality and market relevance of initial
vocational education. This will be achieved through (i) the modernization of the curricula, methodology and
course content in selected "new" professions; (ii) the piloting of competency-based, modular courses in
transferable core skills; (iii) the establishment of independent mechanisms to monitor quality of vocational
courses; (iv) in-service training of initial vocational teachers; and (v) the establishment of labor market
linkages through social partnerships, labor market assessment tools and dissemination mechanisms. The
project will test at regional level the learning materials acquired or developed through the Federal
component of the project. These materials will support the introduction of training in new professions and
the introduction of courses to develop transferable work-related core skills. The acquisition of these core
skills or competencies would broaden the skills base of vocational graduates in order to engender flexibility
and readiness to adapt to the constant changes in modem industry and the demands of modern day life.
The project will also support a range of initiatives to encourage co-operation with, direct involvement of,
and funding contributions from, social partners with the aim of reorienting of initial vocational schools'
activities to labor market needs. Financing will be provided for goods and services in line with the
individual needs of the regions.
- 41 -



Sub-component        Objective 1.    Objective 2.       Objective 3.      Objective 4.        Objective 5.
2.3.2:               Modernize       Pilot modular      Establish         Provide in-service   Establi;h labor
Improvement in       curricula in    courses in core    independent      training of initial    market linkages
the Market           key             skills/ introduce    mechanisms to    vocational        througl- social
Relevance of         professions.    transferable key    monitor quality   teachers.         partner ,hips,
Vocational                           competencies.      of vocational                        labor n- arket
Education                                              courses.                              assessnient tools
and
dissemination
mechar isms.
Republic   Pilot and        Pilot              Establish         For all teaching    Establish
Chuvash RepubSc    develop new       competency-       independent        staff: courses in   Vocati: nal
courses based    based, modular    Vocational       the impact of the    education Social
on regional     courses in        Qualifications    modernization of    Partner ;hip
economic        work-related      Council.          VET content and    Council.
priorities.     core skills.                        introduction of
courses on the     Adjustrients to
Establish       Computer                            development of      regiona legal
Vocational      literacy; civics,                   key competencies   frame% ark to
Education       job search skills,                  (core skills).      enable
Resource        small business,                                         particip-3tion of
Center.         emphasis on                         For selected staff,   social partners.
problem-solving                     training in
resource center
management.
- 42 -



Samara Oblast        Multi-media      Competency         Establish          Training for        Manual,
courses in 10    based, modular    criteria for the   teachers and        training
professions in   courses in        approval of the    trainers, covering    materials and
priority fields    work-related    quality of         adjustment to       quarterly
of regional     key skills.        vocational         VET content;        seminars to
development.                       education          certification,      organize and
Key Modules    Computer            courses.           modular             take forward the
(to be          literacy, civics,                     technologies and    concept and
purchased).     job search skills,   Center for the   social              development of
small business,    certification of  partnership.        social
emphasis on       vocational                             partnerships.
problem-solving    qualifications    For selected staff,
established.      training in          Establish
resource center     Regional
management.         Vocational
education
database.
Develop labor
market
monitoring
program.
Adjustments to
regional legal
framework to
enable
participation of
social partners
43 -



Yaroslavl Oblast    Curriculum       Competency-bas   Improvement of   In-service           Labor market
restructured to   ed, modular     existing         training of initial   linkages
bring general    courses in core  Regional Center   vocational         through social
and vocational   professional    for certification    teachers, and    partnerships
elements into   skills.           of vocational     specialist teachers   with k zy
better balance.                   qualifications,   of problem youth.   stakehlders.
For selected staff,   Reseai ch on
Initial and     Key                                 training in        social
secondary       competencies                       resource center     partne -ships in
professional    (computer                           management.        other regions.
education       literacy, civics,                                      Public relations
course         job search skills,                                      program
linkage.        small business)                                        initiatc d to
emphasis on                                            popularize the
Curriculum      problem-solving                                        social
development    .                                                       partner ship
and textbook                                                           concept.
acquisition to
support                                                                Adjustmnents to
restructured                                                           regional legal
courses.                                                               framework to
enable
participation of
social partners.
Project Component 3 - USS 6.60 million
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
To ensure efficient project management, this component will provide resources to operate for the federal
and regional PIUs for the duration of the project, six years. This consists of staff salaries, initial training in
procurement and financial management for regional PIUs, some skills upgrading for NTF staff. and
consultancies to assist in building project management capacity at regional level and to assist in develeping
specifications for equipment purchases and architectural drawings/scope of work for school and c ffice
renovations. The costs of the annual audits, small office equipment, and operating expenses such as
communications and office supplies will also be financed by the loan. Loan funding will be used for office
space for the federal level PIU, where as the regional administrations will cover that expenditure for
regional PIUs as part of their contribution of the project.
In order to launch first year project activities for all components, an allocation from the Portiolio
Development Loan has been made available, the cost of which has been included in this component.
- 44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Project Cost by Component
%     % Total
(US$ Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Federal Component
1.1 Education Policy Reform                                          3.2      1.0      4.2       24        7
1.2 Quality Assurance and Statistics                                 3.3      1.0      4.3       24        7
1.3 Training and Retraining                                           1.2     0.4      1.6       26        3
1.4 Teaching and Learning Materials
for Initial Vocational Retraining                                    0.9     0.2      1.1       16        2
Subtotal Federal Component                                              8.6     2.6    11.2        24       19
B. Regional Component
1. 2.1 Efficient and Equitable Public Resource Management
2.1.1 Per Capita Budgetary Allocation System                       0.9        -      0.9        -        2
2.1.2 Governance and Management Capacity Building                  4.2      3.2      7.4       43       12
2.1.3 Quality, Statistics and Monitoring                            1.7     1.3      3.1       44        5
Subtotal 2.1 Efficient and Equitable Public Resource Management       6.8     4.5    11.4        40       19
2. 2.2 Modemization and Restructuring of the General Schools Network  6.3     9.3    15.6        59       26
3. 2.3 Restructuring of Initial Vocational Schools and
Improvement in the Market Relevance of Vocational Education
2.3.1 Restructuring of Vocational Schools Network and
Rationalization of their Education Profiles                       5.7      6.8    12.5        54       21
2.3.2 Improvement in the Market Relevance
of Vocational Education                                            1.4     0.5      1.9       27        3
Subtotal 2.3 Restructuring of Initial Vocational Schools and
Improvement in the Market Relevance of Vocational Education         7.1      7.3    14.4        51       24
Subtotal Regional Component                                            20.3    21.1    41.3        51       69
C. Project Management
1. Federal Level PIU - NTF /a                                        2.8      1.0      3.8       25        6
2. Regional Level PlUs
Samara PIU                                                         1.1      0.2      1.2       13        2
Chuvash Republic PIU                                               0.6      0.1      0.7       16        1
Yaroslavl PIU                                                      0.6      0.1      0.7       13        1
Subtotal Regional Level PlUs                                         2.3      0.4      2.7       14        5
Subtotal Project Management                                             5.2     1.3      6.5       20       11
D. Front-end fee                                                         -      0.5      0.5      100        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   34.1    25.5    59.6        43      100
Physical Contingencies                                               0.1      0.1      0.2       30        -
Price Contingencies
Applicable Taxes and Duties                                          4.1      7.2    11.3          -       -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    38.3    32.8    71.1        43      100
\a Includes PDL funding for start-up activities for all components
-45 -



Project Cost by Category                                                          %      % Total
(US$ Million)       Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                        2.9      1.2      4.1       30        7
B. Equipment
Computer Equipment                                  3.3      7.6     10.9       70       18
Office Equipment                                    0.4      1.0      1.4       70        2
Training & Presentation Equipment Ia                0.4      0.8      1.2       70        2
Vocational Training Equipment                       1.9      4.4      6.3       70       11
School Equipment /b                                 1.3      3.0      4.3       70        7
Subtotal Equipment                                    7.2     16.9    24.1        70       40
C. Software                                           0.1      0.2      0.3       70         -
D. Vehicles
Buses                                               0.9      1.0      1.9       50        3
Other vehicles                                      0.1      0.0      0.1       30         -
Subtotal Vehicles                                     1.0      1.0      2.0       49        3
E. Publishing/Printing                                0.8      0.3      1.1       30        2
F. Materials/Literature                               0.4      0.2      0.5       30        1
G. Furniture
Office Fumiture                                     0.2      0.2      0.5       50        1
Classroom Furniture                                 0.9      0.4      1.3       30        2
Subtotal Furniture                                    1.2      0.6      1.8       35        3
H. Consultant Services
1. Local Consultants
Local consultants - Type 1 /c                     5.6        -      5.6         -       9
Local consultants - Type 2 /d                     1.8        -      1.8         -       3
Subtotal Local Consultants                          7.3        -      7.3         -      12
2. Intemational Consultants                           -      1.3      1.3      100        2
Subtotal Consultant Services                          7.3      1.3      8.6        15       14
I. Training /e                                        2.9      2.0      5.0       41        8
J. Grants for dissemination                           0.8      0.2      1.0       20        2
K. PIU Operating Costs                                3.1      0.8      3.9       20        6
L. Project Start-up Costs                             0.5      0.3      0.8       40         1
M. Front end fee /f                                     -      0.5      0.5      100         1
Total Investment Costs                                 28.2    25.5    53.7          48       90
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff salaries                                     4.5        -      4.5         -        8
B. Staff Training travel expenses                     0.0        -      0.0                  -
C. Office Space                                       1.2        -      1.2         -        2
F. Other                                              0.1        -      0.1                  -
Total Recurrent Costs                                   5.9        -      5.9         -       10
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   34.1     25.5    59.6         43      100
Physical Contingencies                                0.1      0.1      0.2       30         -
Price Contingencies
Applicable Taxes and Duties                           4.1      7.2     11.3         -        -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    38.3    32.8    71.1          43      100
\a To be used for staff training etc.
\b ie. Computer classrooms, Science labs, gymnaseum equipment
\c Moscow Based
\d Regionally based or otherwise
\e includes courses, seminars, workshops, & studytours
\f 1% of IBRD loan
- 46 -



Annex 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Economic and Financial Analysis *
(*) For the following sub-components: Per Capita Budgetary Allocation System (2.1.1), Modernization
and Restructuring of the General Education Schools Network (2.2), and Restructuring of Initial
Vocational Schools and improvement in the market relevance of vocational education (2.3).
Public Expenditures Review
1.    Program Responsibility
Preliminary data show that the consolidated budget for education amounts to Rblsl89 billion (3.2
percent of GDP) in 2000. It can be estimated that 17 percent of the budget is spent at the federal level and
85 percent at the sub-national levels (of which15 percent are at the regional level and 70 percent at the
municipal level).
The admrinistration and financing of educational institutions are shared between the federal
government (line ministries) and sub-national governments (Table 1)
Table 1. Public Expenditures on Education, 1994-98
1994       1995        1996         1997        1998
(in billion rubles - 1996 prices)
Total Expenditures on Education  107.2       81.3        83.7        96.5         68.7
Federal                       21.3        12.4        11.4         14.1        9.1
Sub-national                  85.8        68.7        72.3        82.4         59.6
(in percentage of total expenditures)
Total Expenditures on Education
Federal                       3.7         2.8         2.6          3.2         3.3
Sub-national                  19.8        19.8        21.1        20.5         20.7
Memorandum Item:
Total Expenditures on Education  4.5         3.4         3.8          4.4         3.6
(in percentage of GDP)
Source: Fiscal Management in Russia, A World Bank Country Study (forthcoming)
Since 1992, the financial and management responsibility for pre-schools, general education schools
(grade 1-11), boarding schools, orphanage, and, in some regions, vocational education schools are under
the responsibility of sub-national governments. Higher education and most vocational schools are under
the responsibility of the federal government. The MOE is responsible for 58 percent of federal education
spending (Table 2).
- 47 -



Table 2. Federal Public Expenditures on Education, 1999
Federal        Percent of federal     Percent of
education          education         spending by I he
expenditures by      expenditures           MOE
level of        (in percentage)     (in percentage)
education (In
million rubles)
Total Federal Education Expenditures        20,866               100                 57.8
Pre-school Education                         294                 1.4                 6.5
Primary and General Secondary Education      412                 2.0                 8.2
Vocational Education                        3,844                18.4                89.3
Higher Education                            13,023               62.4                53.9
Others (Special, retraining, etc)           3,293                15.8                34.8
Source: staff estimates
Unit costs vary greatly by levels of education. Preliminary data shows that the average cost per studeat in
initial vocational education amounts to 7,300 rubles, while the average cost per student in general
education amounts to 3,400 rubles in 2000. Expenditures per student in general education vary greatly
from one region to another, depending on allocative priorities of regions. However, these figures show that
expenditures per student in vocational education is large compared to expenditures per student in general
education.  The fact that vocational education is expensive, together with the fact that the cu:rent
vocational education system delivers poor outcomes (see sub-component 2.3), suggest a mediumn-tenn
re-allocation of public spending in favor of general education. The increase in public spending for general
education should help reduce the need for extra-budgetary income (or private contributions from parents)
and preserve an equitable access to general education.
Unit costs for initial vocational education vary between the regions. In the pilot regions, average per
student spending vary between 3,376 rubles (Chuvash Republic) and 6,400 rubles (Yaroslavl). There are
also wide variations in unit cost between specializations (Table 3). The most expensive specializvtion
(agriculture) costs almost twice as much as the cheapest (machine building).
Table 3. Expenditure per Student in Initial Vocational Education, by specialization, 1999
Samara Oblast                   Yaroslavl Oblast                Chuvash Republic
Agriculture         5,665        Agriculture           11,600      Agriculture         4,154
Light industry      5,471        Welding               8,000       Training for
Construction        5,368        Electrical            7,700       disabled            3,569
Non-ferrous         5,250        engineering           7,100       Garments            3,555
metals              5,208        Catering              7,000       Construction        3,089
Printing            4,413        Training for          6,500       Machine             2,987
Automobiles         4,166        disabled              6,500       building            2,759
Chemicals/oil       4,137        Trade/ commerce       6,100       Auto repairs        2,699
Trade/catering      4,110        Auto repairs          6,000       Radio/electronics   2,696
Consumer services    3,994       Radio/electronics                 Catering
Machine building                 Machine building
Average             4,813        Average               6,400       Average             3,376
Source: Regional education departments.
- 48 -



1.    Financing and Management of Initial Vocational Education
One-third of vocational education schools are under the responsibility of sub-national governments.
This is equivalent to a quasi-full funding of vocational education by 18 regions (including the Samara
Oblast). The MOE and other line ministries provide funding to the remaining two-thirds of vocational
education schools. In the medium term, the Government intends to transfer the responsibility of all
vocational education schools to the regions.
Budget formulation process. The MOE estimates the overall need for education by using input-based
norms and a projected demand for graduates. The latter is estimated by adding the number of graduates
that local employers may need in a year from now. This information is contained in labor market contracts
that are concluded between the schools and the local employers. This contract does not bind the local
employers for future hirings and is essentially used as a planning tool. Based on overall strategic priorities
of the Govermnent, the Ministry of Finance decides on the actual allocation for education. The discrepancy
between desired and actual budget for vocational education can very large. It is estimated that only half of
the education needs is actually funded.
1.    Financing and Management of General Education
Redistribution of revenues. Taxes are centralized at the federal level and shared between the federal
and sub-national governments according to pre-determined tax sharing arrangements. The share of
revenues of the federal level is used to fund federal programs (45 percent) and provide assistance to the
regions (55 percent). In 2000, most of the assistance is provided through the Federal Regional Support
Fund (a non-earmarked grant). In the future, the Compensation Fund (which could provide a targeted grant
to fund Child Allowances and Disability Benefits) and the Regional Reform Fund may provide additional
ways to redistribute revenues to the regions. Regions have also their own revenues (regional sales tax,
property taxes, local fees).
Regional Support Fund. Currently, there are 70 recipient regions. Access of a region to the Regional
Support Fund is determined by the value of an index of regional tax capacity (per capita) over expenditure
needs (per capita). The latter is computed as the sum of expenditure estimates in 10 sectors, including the
education sector. Expenditures needs for the education sector are estimated by multiplying a normative,
the number of students and two factors of adjustment (to account for price differentials among regions and
low population areas). The normative is an input-based measure of education needs. In the 2001 budget,
the normative for general education is expected to amount to 4,300 rubles per student.
Budget Allocation Flows at the Regional level. According to Russian law, schools "belong" to
municipalities whose budget has to finance school building, maintenance and utilities. Expenditures for the
education process can be covered either by the regional budget (two-level financing scheme), or the
municipal (one-level financing scheme) budget.
Few students in initial vocational education schools are funded by local employers. In the Samara Oblast, 20
percent of students are funded by local employers.
- 49 -



*   Two-level Financing of Schools (Samara Oblast). Schools are financed out of the regional and
municipal budgets. The regional budget provides financing for the education process and textbooks for
local low-income families' students. Municipalities, which own school buildings, provide funding for
their maintenance - utilities, capital repair, school equipment (with long service life). Municipal ties,
which have their own revenues, could use them to provide additional funding for teachers' salaries.
Regional budget
Municipal education              Schools
administration
Municipal budget
In the year 2001, tax sharing arrangements are: 55 percent for the federal level, and 45 percent for sub-nathnal
levels.
3   One-Level Financing of Schools (Chuvash Republic and Yaroslavl Oblast).  Schools receive
funding from the municipal budget.
Regional budget
Grant ("transfer") and (or) subvention
Municipal budget                  lo   amunicistrduation          lo     Shol
Sub-Component 2.1.1. Per Capita Budgetary Allocation System
1. Problems with the Existing Budgetary System.
Each school estimates its budget by using input-based norms (such as the number of classes per topic, the
standard class size, the number of square meters). The school then submits its estimate to the Regi: nal
Adrninistration by line items. Estimates of education needs from all schools are then aggregated at the
regional level.  Based on strategic priorities, the region identifies the actual budget allocation for
education. The actual budget for education is often much lower than the estimates of education needs. As
a result, the region (through the educational district) has to re-examine each school budget and allocate the
"cut" in spending, by line item, to each school. Schools receive their budget allocation on a monthly basis,
by line item. The line item budgeting procedure reduces considerably school director's autonom3 in
making allocative choices. There is no incentive for schools to economize on particular areas of spendi g,
since the school is unlikely to benefit from the savings.
- 50 -



At the regional and municipality levels, the budgetary allocation process is:
* Non-transparent, unpredictable and administratively cumbersome. Budget allocations are made to
schools based on historical spending and bargaining. Municipalities "negotiate" revenues and
expenditures with regional authorities, every year.
* Politically unsustainable. It emerges out of lengthy and costly negotiations involving the regions, the
municipalities and the schools. Short-term budgetary outcomes are given priority over a strategic and
quality-oriented vision of education.
* Ineffective. In some regions, it has resulted in the non (or delayed) payment of teachers and utilities.
2. Proposed Reform
The project will finance the introduction and development of a transparent mechanism of budgetary
allocation based on the "money follows the student" principle - also referred to as per capita financing. Per
capita financing, whereby schools are in receipt of a set amount of financing for each student enrolled,
provides an efficient and equitable way to distribute scarce budgetary resources for education among
schools.
The financing formula will be adjusted to reflect the fact that educational needs of students vary
considerably, depending on individual and geographical characteristics. In the three pilot regions, the
urban-rural cost differences will be reflected in two per capita values. Moreover, these values will be
adjusted by a set of coefficients: school size, type of education (measured by academic hours), education
for children with exceptional academic abilities, specialized education for mentally retarded children, home
education for children with health problems, enhanced education in specific subjects and "family
education". The value for coefficients may differ among the regions to reflect local condition and
preferences.
The poor assignment of responsibility between levels has contributed to the practice of "negotiated" budget
outcomes and soft budget constraints.
- 51 -



Table 3. Expenditures Coverage by the Per Capita Formula, by region.
Samara Oblast                   Yaroslavl Oblast                 Chuvash Republic
*  Teaching and non-teaching     *  Teaching and non-teaching     *  Teaching and non-teaching
staff payroll (including social  staff payroll (including         staff payroll (including social
contributions)                   social contributions)            contributions)
*  Teachers' retraining          *  Teachers' retraining          *  Teachers' compensation for
*  Training expenses (including  *  Training expenses                expenses on methodological
training aids material,          (including training aids         materials
laboratory equipment,            material, laboratory          *  Teachers' retraining
textbooks for library)           equipment, textbooks for     *  Training expenses (includirag
*  Communications                   library)                         training aids material,
*  Medication and medical        *  Teachers' compensation for       laboratory equipment,
supplies                         methodological literature       textbooks for library)
*  Small repair                     purchase                      *  Meals
*  Current building and          *  Communications                *  Transportation costs for pupils
equipment repair              *  Medication and medical       *  Communications
*  Other supplies                   supplies                      *  Medication and medical
*  maintenance and utilities       supplies
(electricity, water and      *  Current building and
heating)                        equipment repair
*  Current building and         *  Maintenance and utilities
equipment repair)               (electricity, water, heating)
*  Other supplies               *  Rural schools' teachers'
compensation on housing rent
and utilities
*  Other supplies
*  Students' transportation costs    *  Students' transportation  *  Textbooks expenses (*)
(to support the school           costs (to support the school
network restructuring),          network restructuring) and
utilities and textbooks          textbooks expenses (*)
expenses (*)
(*) Due to insufficient funding, pilot regions opted to cover expenditures for these items by the per capita fornula
at a later stage.
Increased financial autonomy of schools will be secured through the adjustment of the legal and regulatory
framework (registration of schools as legal entities through charter, founding agreements, special
regulations to oversee the budget process, license), the set up of accounting offices at the school level, the
development of learning material and training of school directors in financial management. Each school
will have its own independent bank account with the responsibility for budget management delegated to the
school director, who would be permitted to transfer savings made under one budget heading to another.
The school director will be accountable in the use of resources vis-a-vis of the municipality and the parents
(through the Trust Funds).
Budget allocations to schools should be delivered in the form of a single line item without a breakdown by i tems
of the budget classification.
- 52 -



Table 4. 10-Step Implementation Plan of the Per Capita Financing Scheme
I. Adjustment of the legal and regulatory framework
2. Development of a methodology for computation
3. Analysis/Auditing of the budgetary allocation system
4. Development of a software to compute Per Capita Values
5. Purchase equipment to support the scheme implementation
6. Development of learning material for training in financial management
7. Training needs analysis
8. Training and Re-training of regional and municipal administrators, and school directors
9. Implementation of school autonomy
10. Piloting the per capita scheme in x number of municipalities/schools
A good dissemination strategy of the lessons learned from the introduction of the per capita financing
scheme in the three pilot regions will ensure a smooth replication of the scheme in the other regions.
3. Expected Results
The imperative driving the resource allocation system is that of securing control over expenditures. The
introduction of the per capita financing scheme is expected to generate the following results:
* Greater transparency, objectivity and predictability in the budget allocation process. At the
regional and municipal levels, the scheme will reduce the time spent on bargaining. It should also lead
to efforts to harden budget constraints or shift away from negotiated outcomes that characterize the
current allocation system.
* Modern tool to plan education expenditures. At the regional level, per capita financing will move
the focus of budget design away from an input-based measure towards a more realistic measure of
education expenditures.
* Better allocative choices at the municipal level. Municipalities will have to fund local schools within
the given per capita allocation and may thereby have greater incentives to optimize the schools
network.
* Greater incentives to optimize the use of available resources and accountability at the school level.
Once the overall framework is in place to secure school autonomy, school administrators will be in a
position to make decisions about the relative value of different inputs - textbooks versus an extra
teacher for instance, and will be accountable vis-a-vis parents for the use of resources.
The project will build upon the Government's intention to improve the allocation mechanism for budgetary
resources in a fiscally decentralized setting. It is consistent with the Government's strategy to implement
- 53 -



per capita financing scheme in the education sector (2000-01 Economic Action Plan of the Government of
the Federation) and the MOE intentions to replicate the scheme in other regions of the Federation The
full benefits of introducing this scheme will unfold, once the rationalization of the schools network
(sub-component 2.2.) is fully implemented.
4.     Potential Risks
The implementation of the per capita financing scheme entails the following risks:
*   Fiscal Risks. Initially, the per capita values will be computed by using the existing budgetary en elope
for education. In the short term, there will thus be no injection of additional resources for education.
The budgetary gains derived from lower transaction costs and fewer schools (sub-component 2.2) will
only be visible in the medium term.
* Social Risks. Unless carefully monitored, there is a risk that small rural schools will be unduly
penalized under the per capita scheme. This risk is particularly serious in view of the tight budgetary
environment under which the scheme will be piloted. Some small rural schools are likely to become
financially un-viable. As some schools may no longer receive enough funding to support all stalf, the
scheme will entail some reductions in staffing (see sub-component 2.2). Adjustment to lower staffing
should go on a par with the natural attrition rate of teaching and non-teaching staff. As consolication
takes place, attention will have to be paid to preserve an equitable access to education, including to
poor rural schools.
* Political Economy Risks. In a donor region, the success of the scheme will depend on the numlber of
municipalities that are participating in the scheme. Ideally, taxes from all municipalities would be
pooled at the regional level, redistributed on a per capita basis to schools, and cover all eduLation
expenditures. However, if a municipality expects to receive less funding for education under the
scheme than if it opts out, it might decide not to participate to the scheme. The decision to opt out will
reduce the overall resources available for redistribution. Unless the regulatory framework is revised to
include all municipalities in the scheme, there is a risk of instability and unpredictability of budgetary
resources.
*   Partial Fiscal Reforms. Reforming the sub-national budgetary allocation system is only a first step in
the direction of improving public sector administration and financial management. Unless new
budgeting principles are introduced, and budget formulation, execution and evaluation processes are
improved, the new mechanism of budget allocation can only partially support an improvement in the
overall budgetary outcome. The ERP will go in par with the intergovernmental finance refonns that are
supported under the Regional Fiscal TA Project.
In view of these risks, the project will pilot the scheme in 3 regions. The lessons learnt from piloting the
scheme will help guide the replication process across other regions of the Federation. The selection c f the
3 pilot regions is especially suitable to test the adequacy of the per capita financing scheme. These 3
regions are representative of the setting under which the mechanism will have to operate: donor region
(Samara Oblast) and recipient regions (Chuvash Republic, which is a region that is heavily dependent on
federal transfers, and Yaroslavl Oblast, which is a region that is partially dependent on federal transfers).
The timing for piloting the scheme will have to be adequate to ensure that lessons could be drawn from the
piloting prior to replication across Russia.
- 54 -



Sub-component 2.2. Modernization and Restructuring of the General Education Schools Network
1. Problems with the Existing Schools Network
The Russian general education system consists of 66,700 schools, of which two-thirds are located in rural
areas. In 1992, the management and financing of general education was decentralized, so that the
overwhelming majority of schools are financed from sub-national budgets. As a result, average
expenditure per student varies greatly among regions (Table 5). Federal transfers (through the Regional
Support Fund) are insufficient to close the financial gap among regions.
Table 5. Education and Fiscal Indicators in General Ed cation, 2000, by egion
Samara Oblast Yaroslavl Oblast    Chuvash
Republic
Education Indicators
Number of schools                                  1,132            585             691
Enrollment (thousands)                             434              174             212
Teachers (thousands)                               14.7            13.5             17.9
Fiscal Indicators (*)
(in thousand rubles)
Public (and private) education spending          159,390         144,482          158,877
Current expenditures                             151,271         130,110          140,778
Capital expenditures                              3,895           5,370           15,256
Voluntary private contributions                   4,224           9,002            2,843
(Per student, rubles)
Total (public) education spending                 2,785           2,463            1,583
(public) current education spending               2,716           2,366            1,428
(public) capital expenditures                      70               98              155
(*) based on an average sample of 25 percent of students.
Following the sharp decline in the birth rate in the early 1 990s, the school-age population has shrunk. For
example, in a typical rural school of the Chuvash Republic, the utilization capacity rate of a general
education school is around 35 percent (and the studentlteacher ratio = 10). 82 percent of the schools are
located in rural areas, but attract less than 40 percent of the total number of students in the region. As a
result, unit costs in rural schools are two-thirds larger than in urban schools. In the Yaroslavl Oblast, 40
percent of schools are located in rural areas but attract only 20 percent of the total number of students in
the region. In the Samara Oblast, 60 percent of the schools are located in rural areas, but attract only 27
percent of students. Over the next 10 years, Samara expects school enrollment to fall by 35 percent.
There is scope to rationalize the number of general education schools in rural areas. The current level of
capacity is not sustainable, particularly under the tight budgetary environment in which schools have to
survive. Moreover, the quality of education in rural areas has often been lower than in urban areas, due to
the lack of teachers and equipment, deteriorating infrastructure and a poor access to modem learning
materials. Students who are educated in these small village schools may be unable to compete vis-a-vis
students who are educated in modem urban schools, and may be put at a disadvantage in tenrs of access to
higher education, professional careers, and social and territorial mobility.
- 55 -



2. Proposed Reforms
The modernization of general education schools network includes two sub-components: (i) the consolidation
of rural schools into "high-quality" schools with provision of appropriate transportation services, and the
re-conversion of unused space in the closed school for pre-school education and community-based activities
(sports, arts, culture, languages, crafts etc.); and (ii) the creation of education districts to provide a range of
educational services for the local population in urban areas.
3. Expected Results
The modemization of the schools network is expected to: (i) improve the efficiency of the general education
system by reducing the number of small rural schools; and (ii) ensure quality and financial sustainability of
schools that remain in rural areas. More cost-effective schools will be able to attract more funding under
the per capita financing scheme and invest into quality improvement.
4. Analysis within a "Cost/Benefit" Framework
The benefit of the project is measured by the difference between the 'without project' and the 'with prcject'
situation. Without the project, a myriad of small rural schools, with a low (and prospective declining)
utilization capacity, and a deteriorating infrastructure, is financially un-viable. Schools have no means to
improve the school infrastructure, the quality of teaching and buy modem leaming equipment.
With the project, in the short-term, a number of "non-viable" schools will be progressively closed down.
The pace of closures will be driven by both parents and students' response to these newly equipped schools
and the natural attrition rate of teaching and non-teaching staff.
In the medium-term, revitalized schools in rural areas will be able to attract students by offering them a
higher quality of leaming and expanded learning opportunities. Larger schools will benefit from economies
of scale and be able to receive larger funding for education under the per capita financing scheme.
The project will build upon regions' intentions to consolidate the schools network in response to currer t and
prospective decline in the school-age population and the tight budgetary environment. The project will build
on existing initiatives to restructure the schools network. Specifically, in the Samara Oblast, schools
consolidation, together with a school busing program are being implemented. In the Chuvash Repablic,
work is currently conducted on introducing a similar busing program. In the Yaroslavl Oblast, the road
network is much less developed than in the two other regions and altematives to a school busing program
for remote rural schools are explored.
Economic and qualitative benefits should out-weigh the social risks involved in restructuring the schools
network. As rural schools often emerge as a key center for cultural and intellectual development of the
rural population, school consolidation will proceed gradually, in full and transparent partnership with the
local population, directors and teachers. Decisions will be taken with maximum attention to the interests of
students, parents, teachers and the school administration. The piloting of restructuring reforms in the
regions is intended to ensure that social risks are minimized.
5.     Net Cost Savings from Schools Network Restructuring: A Case Study
Yanchellinskaya school comprises of 188 students, 17 teachers and 24 non-teaching staff (adminisiTative
and technical personnel). Albahtinskaya school has 52 students, with 12 teachers and 11 non-teaching
- 56 -



staff. In the restructuring process, 24 students from grades 1-4 will continue to attend Albahtinskaya
school. The remaining 28 students from grade 5-11 will be transferred to Yanchellinskaya. Both schools
are located in the Chuvash Republic.
In Yanchellinskaya, the number of staff will remain unchanged (Table 6). Additional expenditures will
include the transportation of students, refurbishment of the school and acquisition of new equipment, such
as books, chemistry and physics materials. In Albahtinskaya the number of teaching staff will be reduced
from 12 to 2, and the number of non-teaching staff from 11 to 4. Staff reduction will be achieved through
retirement (3 teachers and I non-teaching staff) and transfer to another school (5 teachers and 2
non-teaching staff). Due to the closure of some space in the building, it is expected that spending on utilities
will be cut by 50 percent.
Assuming that spending on school refurbishment and new learning material takes place in the first year of
the restructuring process, net cost savings from schools restructuring will amount to 35,000 rubles (4.5
percent of municipal budget for both schools). Moreover, the restructuring will help boost the quality of
education in the consolidated school. Children will attend computer class, register for new topics (such as
IT and Psychology), and access better equipped facilities (IT laboratory, chemistry and physics
laboratories, sports facilities and a larger library), benefit from much larger class size and be taught by a
more qualified staff.
- 57 -



Table 6. Net Cost Savings from the Restructuring of Yanchellinskaya and Albahtinskaya Schools,
year 1
(in thousand rubles)
Yanchellinskaya                    Albahtinskaya
Actual         Expected*          Actual         Expected*
Wages and Salaries                     402              402               183              54
Teaching Staff                      271              271              135              31
Wages                               195              195              97               22
Social Contributions                76               76                38               9
Non-Teaching Staff                     132               132              49               24
Wages                               95                95               35               17
Social Contributions                37                37               14               7
Utilities                              150               150              68               26
Heating                             140              140               64              25
Electricity                         10                10               4                1
Bus Transportation                      6                60                0               0
Bus rent                                              51              ...              ...
Drivers' salary                      3                3                ...             ...
Fuel                                 3                5                ...              ...
Building refurbishment                 ...               72               ...
New equipment                           ...              10
Total expenditures                     558              694              251               80
Change in expenditures                 ...              136               ...             -171
Total net cost savings                 ...               ...              ...              35
Memorandum Items:
Number of students                     188              216               52               24
Utilization capacity rate (percent)    37.6             43.2              ...
Number of teaching staff                17               17               12                2
Number of non-teaching staff           24.5             24.5              11                7
Heating (square meters)               2901              2901             920              400
(*) with restructuring and investment in thefirst year of the project.
6. Fiscal Impact of the Per Capita Financing and Schools Network Restructuring Reforms
Preliminary estimates show that consolidated savings from the introduction of per capita financing and
schools network restructuring reforms can amount to up to 6 percent of total education expenditures.
Using actual data for year 3, the impact of the reforms on the regional budget for education during the 5th
year of reforms was simulated (Table 7). It can be shown that savings can amount to 1.2 percent of the
regional budget for education (scenario 1). This saving can be used to increase
In the simulation, the regional budget for education excludes spending on utilities, school buildinig and
maintenance, which are under the responsibility of municipalities.
- 58 -



the per capita value allocation to schools (scenario 2).  Assuming that annual savings in the first four
years of reforms were much larger than 0.6 percent, it can be estimated that consolidated savings will
amount to up to 6 percent of total education expenditures in the first five years of reforms. After the 5th
year of reforms, it is expected that the average students/teacher ratio will be of 25 in urban areas (and of 18
in rural areas).
Table 7. Simulated Regional Budget for Education*
In years 3 and 5 of per capita financing and schools network restructuring reforms
Year 3                         Year 5
(actual)                     (projected)
Scenario 1         Scenario 2
Regional Education Budget*
(in million rubles)                   1,072           1,059    Savings = 1.2 %    1,190
Urban                              696             688      Savings = 1.2 %    773
Rural                              375             371       Savings = 1.2 %    416
Per capita values                     2,436                                     2,736
Urban                              2,202                                     2,473
Rural                            | 3,037                                     3,409
(*) excluding utilities, school building and maintenance.
Notes: Scenario 1: In year 5, same per capita-values as in year 3. The schools network restructuring in
year 5 is as follows: consolidation of 18 primary schools (grade 1-4) with secondary schools (grade 1-9),
and closure of 19 full secondary schools (grade 1-11 ).
Scenario 2: Nominal increase in the regional budget for education by I I percent. Redistribution of the
savings from the introduction of the per capita financing and schools network restructuring to schools
through increased per capita values (by 12.2 percent).
Sources: Samara Oblast data, and staff estimates.
Sub-Component 2.3. Restructuring of the Initial Vocational Education Schools Network and
Improvement in Market Relevance of Vocational Education
Russia's network of primary vocational education schools has been shrinking during the 1 990s. Compared
to 1990, the number of such schools decreased by 10 percent and total enrollment by 15 percent in 1999.
There are 6V2 million primary vocational school graduates in the labor market (9 per cent of the
economically active population).
- 59 -



Table 8. Number of Schools and Students in Initial Vocational Education, 1999
Number of          Enrollment
schools         (in thousands)
Samara Oblast                 56               36.2
Yaroslavl Oblast              42               17.0
Chuvash Republic              29               16.1
Source: MOE.
1. Problems with the Existing Vocational Education System
Problems facing the initial vocational education system in Russia are common to most transition economies
in the region. Government funds for vocational education have dwindled, teachers' salaries are low, and
nothing is spent on materials and equipment. There are very few private training institutions. The crisis in
enterprises means that employers cannot afford to train or to pay for training and are not expanding
recruitment. And most parents cannot afford to pay much for training.
Three problems undermine the vocational education system:
1.    Initial vocational education does not adequately respond to the needs of the labor market. There
is a growing gap between what the education system delivers and what employers need. The inadequacy to
match labor market requirements is reflected in:
* Skills learnt. As part of the transition to markets, the structure of demand has been changing (e.g.
from industry to services and tourism), as is that of occupations (from specific to broad, flexible over
time, and requiring higher levels of general education). The acquisition of narrowly defined skills is
given precedence over the acquisition of skills that could be flexibly used in a range of fields.
*   Tools/equipment to support quality education. Vocational education institutions in Russia are
amongst the most poorly maintained and equipped of all Russian education facilities. For many years,
federalfunding has failed in general to provide funds for any equipment, maintenance or building
works. This lack of funding has resulted in vocational schools operating with obsolete training
equipment generally around 20 to 25 years old. With the demise of the majority of state-owned
enterprises, vocational schools are now without access to any training equipment approaching a
reasonable standard and have no prospect of this situation improving through either federalor regional
funding. New enterprises are often struggling to establish themselves and currently are unable to take
responsibility for training their workers.
*   Content of education. The lack of modem equipment in vocational schools strongly hampers the
regions' efforts to move forward with their economic development priorities. Because the schools
continue to run courses for which they have machinery and teachers, they are producing graduates for
narrowly defined jobs for which there is no demand. Meanwhile regions suffer a shortfall in skilled
workers in the "new" professions connected with their redefined directions.
In the three pilot regions, the need to reform the initial vocation education system is illustrated by the
- 60 -



following indicators:
* Share in regional employment. The output of the schools is small in relation to total employment in
the sectors that the initial vocation education schools are serving. It represents only 1.3 percent of
these sectors' employment in the Samara Oblast, 3.1 percent in the Yaroslavl Oblast and 2.7 percent in
the Chuvash Republic. All these sectors are expected to grow in all three regions, but sectors such as
information technology, services, tourism, construction and transportation are expected to grow
particularly fast, boosting demand for people with a broad high-quality education - numerate, literate,
willing to leam, capable of teamwork, familiar with computers, able to communicate and fluent in
foreign languages.
Placement of graduates. In Russia, 48.8 percent of graduates from initial vocational education are placed
immediately (Table 9).
Table 9. Placement of Initial Vocational Education Graduates, by region, 1999
(in percent)
Seeking work
Immediately     Pursue        Military     Seeking work     through the
placed       further        service      themselves      Employment
education                                     Service
; ~~4.S.  .                      .      .....
Samara Oblast       81.8          4.1            8.0            5.9             0.2
Yaroslavl Oblast    42.0          12.2           19.9          25.8             0.1
Chuvash             54.8          14.5           14.0          15.3              1.4
Republic
Source: MOE
* In the Chuvash Republic, 54.8 percent and in the Yaroslavl Oblast 42 percent of graduates find a job
immediately. The Samara Oblast is by far the most successful of the pilot regions in making
arrangements for placing graduates - only 18.2 percent of those who are available for jobs do not find a
job immediately. Scattered evidence suggests that vocational education graduates are not necessarily
absorbed into jobs that use their skills.
Salary of graduates. Although local economies have no difficulty in absorbing new graduates, it is less
clear whether they are absorbed into well-paid jobs. Interviews and VCIOMs surveys suggest that
graduates do not receive any premium over those with other types of education. According to the Social
Assessments carried out in the 3 pilot regions, graduates "do not have opportunities to get good wages at
the enterprises". Although young people recognize that vocational education improves immediate chances
of finding a job (and this is reflected in relative unemployment rates, Table 10), they are not attracted by
the type of job that it brings and prefer to try to finish general secondary education.
- 61 -



Table 10. Unemployment rates, by educational level and sex, 1999
Tota    Higher   Incomplet   Secondar   Primary    Secondar   Seconda   Pr ma
1    education    e higher       y       vocation      y          ry      irn or
education    vocationa    al      complete   general    n.,ne
Both sexes     12.9     7.1         14.8        10.6       15.5       16.1        19.9      21.4
Men            13.0     6.7         14.9        10.3       14.4        15.7       19.6     2 ;.3
Women          12.8     7.5         14.8        10.8       17.3        16.6      20.3      2 ;.4
Source: Goskomstat Labor Force Survey 1999.
2.     Training provision andfacilities are duplicated. Both traditional vocational education schools and
the Federal Employment Service, which is responsible for the training and retraining of unemploye 1, are
providing training in occupational fields. Retraining centers from the Federal Employment Servi: e are
poorly equipped and inadequate to respond to labor market needs as well.
The Federal Employment Service sponsors only 17 per cent of trainees on extra-budgetary courses in nitial
vocation education schools. In the regions, the proportion is much lower (Yaroslavl Oblast, 12 perceait) or
higher than the national average (Samara Oblast, 27 percent and Chuvash Republic, 25 percent). The poor
quality of retraining in relation to its cost is the main reason for the Federal Employment Service making so
little use of the schools.
3.     In view of the shrinking school age population and tight budgetary environment, there is sc( pe to
rationalize the number of vocational education schools. The Chuvash Republic expects the number of
people under the age of 16 to fall from 24.5 percent in 1996 to 18.6 percent in 2006. It is also exi: ected
that general education graduates will increasingly choose to enter general secondary and higher education
over vocational education schools. The cost of adjusting the existing network of initial vocational schools
to quality learning is prohibitive.
2. Proposed Reforms
The project will, among other reforms, finance the establishment of a number of key resource cent.zrs to
serve clusters of schools. Their functions will be:
1.     To provide access to modem training and production machinery for a cluster of vocational sc iools.
These centers will be used for testing skills components of student learning outcomes on appropriate
equipment. They will also be used to inform vocational teachers about modem teaching practices :.:nd to
develop and disseminate modular, competency-based learning materials, and to provide pre-vocational
orientation for general education students
2.     To enable retraining of unemployed on equipment suitable for developing skills ir. new
occupational fields in which the regions are experiencing skills shortages;
3.     To support the on-going rationalization of the schools network.
These resource centers will be set up in existing school buildings. These Centers will be equippec with
simplified and relatively primitive pieces that display principles of design and action, rather than mnimic
state-of-the-art technology.  Their professional profiles will reflect regional economic develo':ment
- 62 -



priorities. Specializations proposed for the resource centers correspond largely to booming regional
sectors: automobiles, aerospace, mechanical engineering and metal working, electrical engineering,
petrochemicals, agriculture and food processing, building, tourism, road construction, services, small
business, radio/electronics, catering, wood processing, crafts, trade and commerce (Table 11). Most of
these are specializations in which there has been little trouble in placing graduates - though not necessarily
in the jobs for which they have been trained. Upgrading the equipment available to vocational education
schools is necessary to make their training relevant to the higher grades of jobs that are available in these
sectors.
Table 11: Employment in Sectors relevant to Initial Vocational Schools, 1999
(in thousands)
Samara Oblast                  Yaroslavl Oblast               Chuvash Republic
Automobiles              120   Engineering               94    Machines/ metals      65
Aerospace               100    Electronic equipment       9    Chemicals              9
Mechanical engineering   55    Catering/ services         3    Wood processing       II
Petrochemicals           44    Trade/ commerce            17    Textiles             17
Agriculture/ processing  115    Autorepairs               17    Agriculture          94
Construction            100   Electrical engineering      5    Construction          34
Tourism                  40    Agriculture               40    Transport             18
Road construction        25    Construction/ renovation   14    Catering/ trade      44
Services                 35    Others                    436   Services              18
Small business           51                                     Others               244
Social sectors          325
Others                  434
Total                   1,444   Total                    635   Total                 554
Source: Regional education departments.
3. Expected Results
The project will:
*   Establish a link between education and the labor market. In adjusting the content of education and
supplying modem tools/equipment to support learning, the project will act as a catalyst of fast
economic development in the regions. Strategic priorities for economic development will be set by
regional administrations, in collaboration with social partners. As social partners become increasingly
involved in funding and managing vocational education, they will ensure that the schools are closely
linked, in their curriculum and syllabuses, to the demands of the regional economy. Building of links
with social partners and improvements in quality of initial vocational education are also expected to
increase the chances of attracting funding from non-government sources and of securing places for
students for in-plant training.
*   Establish synergies with the Federal Employment Service. The Federal Employment Service will
directly benefit from a better initial vocational education system through a reduction in the
unemployment rate among the system's graduates. In the medium-term, the Federal Employment
Service will also improve the quality and efficiency of its retraining programs by sending unemployed
individuals to resource centers.
- 63 -



*   Facilitate the closure, or amalgamation, of non viable current initial vocational education schools.
The establishment of Centers will provide access to currently unavailable, complex and expensive
equipment. At the same time, it will bring about a closure, or amalgamation, of non-viable cnrrent
vocational education schools.
One region, Samara Oblast, has already almost completed the reorganization of its VET network, reducing
the number of such schools from 78 in 1997 to 57 in 1999. In this process, school size increased. Prior to
1997 schools ranged from 100 to 300 students, whereas in 1999 the range is from 600 to 3;,000.
Single-profile schools (e.g. concentrated on railways) have been merged to form multi-profile institutions
(e.g. a school preparing workers for several forms of transportation). Obsolete programs have been
terminated and new specializations relating to developing sectors of the economy (e.g. transportation,
information technology, services and construction) have been established. Student/ teacher ratios have been
increased from 8:1 to 24:1. Directors have also been given increased responsibility for generating more
extra-budgetary support.
The Samara Oblast experience can be taken as a model for the reorganization process in the other two
regions. In Yaroslavl Oblast reorganization is expected to affect thirteen VET institutions between 2001
and 2006, including the closure of six. In the Chuvash Republic it will involve closure of four institlutions
and amalgamation of a further six.
4. Analysis within a "Cost/ Benefit" Framework
The benefit to be set against the cost of the project's investment in the three regions (over $14.5 million,
including $12.6 in resource centers) arises from reconstruction of an enterprise-based training system that
has effectively collapsed. The relative incidence of current cost is also shifted, from tax payers to
beneficiaries (employers or graduates), with the result that more resources become available for vocational
education.
The benefit of the project is measured by the difference between the 'without-project' and the 'with-project'
situation. Without the project, initial vocational education institutions, starved of funds and using ouldated
equipment, train for narrow and obsolete specializations and graduates get semi-skilled, badly paid jobs.
With the project, in the short run, a revitalized vocational education system, with well equipped resource
centers playing a cluster-related role, imparts the broad skills for flexible use that are increasingly
demanded in the national economy and new skills based on modem technology; enterprises become
re-involved in defining training needs; vocational education graduates get skilled, well-paid jobs; the quality
and relevance of re-training of the unemployed is increased, to the benefit of their job search; and a number
of non-viable schools are progressively closed down.
In the longer run, vocational schools provide flexible skills to make workers trainable; enterprises
increasingly take over not only design, but also funding and implementation of training. An efficient
division of labor between the public and private sectors will be, thus, achieved.
The project's objective is to improve the vocational education system's responsiveness to changes in the
economic environment - this would be reflected in increased labor productivity, and faster regional
economic development. As these reforms may entail substantial adjustment costs and uncertainty, it is
reasonable to pilot these reforms, particularly in the Russian context of on-going systemic changes. This
project will build on a strong regional ownership of this set of reforms.
5. Fiscal Impact of the Initial Vocational Education Schools Network Restructuring
Preliminary estimates suggest that the closure of 15 percent of initial vocational education schools could
- 64 -



allow a reduction of up to 14 percent in expenditures on staff and maintenance of buildings. This is
equivalent to a 9 percent reduction in the regional budget for initial vocational education (479,000 rubles).
In addition, a rental income could be obtained from the buildings and land that had been vacated. The
fiscal benefit from schools network restructuring will depend on the pace and extent to which the regions
increase student/ teacher ratios.
Table 12. Regional Expenditures on Initial Vocational Education, 1999
Total Expenditures     Expenditures per student    Percent
(in miDlion rubles)          (in rubles)          of total
Total                             54.3                     3,376                       100
Salaries and Social Contributions  21.9                    1,361                      40
Maintenance of buildings, equipment
and materials                     12.8                     796                        24
Social support (incl. food, stipends,
clothing )                        19.6                     1,219                      36
Source: the Chuvash Republic, Education Department.
- 65 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Years Ending
December 31
| Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.8       10.8       17.0       20.7       12.4        3.C        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.0        1.0        1.6        1.9        1.1        0.3       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.8       11.8        18.6      22.6        13.5        3.3       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.5        0.0        0.0        0.0        0:         0.0
Total Financing               0.8       12.3        18.6       22.6       13.5        3.3       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    0.0        8.8       13.2       16.1        9.6       2.3        0.0
Government                  0.0        3.5        5.4        6.5        3.9       1.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.8        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.8        12.3       18.6       22.6       13.5       3.3        0.0
I Yearl      Year 2  I Year3       Year 4     Year S     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                                                                  0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4         1.4       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          1.4         1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4       0.0         0.0
Front-end fee                          0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              1.4         1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        1.4        1.4         1.4        1.4       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.8        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.8         1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
The Government (federal and regional) would fund all recurrent costs associated with the project. During the
life of the project recurrent costs are defined as staff salaries, staff training expenses, office space & utilities
-66 -



for reorganized units.
The Operational Period beyond the project (5 years) envisages continuation of funding of the salaries of staff
recruited to implement reforms introduced by the project ($4.5 million) and maintenance on equipment and
vehicles, and upgrading/replacement of information technology financed by the project ($2.6 million).
Maintenance costs have been figured at 10% of the project investment. Regional governments are expected to
be able to finance these costs from the potential savings which would come about from the introduction of per
capita financing scheme and the restructuring of the schools network.
- 67 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Procurement
Procurement Guidelines. The procurement of goods and works and related services financed by the Bank
would be conducted in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans .and
IDA Credits" of January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement of consulting services would follow the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 19)9.
Project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations.
Project Management and Procurement Arrangements. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be
within the National Training Foundation (NTF) which will be responsible for overall project management
including procurement and coordination. The NTF has implemented the Management & Finani: ial
Training Project which closed 11/99 and the Education Innovation Project which is ongoing. As the miain
project investment will be at regional level, day to day management of each regional sub project would lest
within regionally based PIUs in each of the 3 pilot regions. These units will be separate legal entid:ies
founded by the NTF and the Regional Education Administrations/Ministries. The regional PlUs will
procure the goods, works and services under their respective sub-projects. When there are opportunitie. to
consolidate procurement across the three regions, the NTF will be responsible for those procurements and
for ensuring that the regional PIUs are following Bank Guidelines and NTF project management standaids.
The Operational Manual prepared by the NTF and the regional PIUs contains internal processing and
procurement procedures in compliance with World Bank Guidelines.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. A procurement capacity assessment of the NTF was conducted in
January 2001. In brief, the NTF has been restructured to manage project implementation more effectively.
An experienced Head of Procurement Department has been hired. One new procurement specialist has been
hired and one more will be hired to work with two existing procurement staff. The NTF also intend& to
engage a procurement agent which will help implement the Regional component of the project. The NTF
procurement staff as well as specialists from regional PIUs will be given procurement training. In view of
the above arrangements, the NTF procurement capacity and arrangements are deemed satisfactory. Sim lar
assessments of the regional PIUs will be conducted later in 2001 when the PIUs are legally established and
equipped with qualified staff. Until that time, all procurement will be conducted by the NTF, together M ith
the regional PIUs so they may gain hands-on experience with support and supervision from the NTF. All
Bank-financed procurement will be monitored by the Bank's Procurement Unit in the Country Officce in
Moscow.
Procurement Plan. The main project components and their procurement methods are summarized in
Tables A and A 1 of this Annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the
procurement actions is included in the PIP contained in the Operational Manual. All other procurement
information including the Bank's review process is presented in Table B.
Procurement Methods (see Tables A and Al)
Civil Works (US$ 4.68 million). The Bank-financed contracts are for: (i) fitting school and regicnal
education administration offices with cabling and sufficient power supply to introduce computer equipment
in the pilot regions; (ii) renovation of general schools and vocational training institutions; and iiii)
installation of security and fire-preventing systems in schools and vocational training institutions.
- 68 -



Most civil works contracts will be small and attempts will be made to package them so that economies of
scale can be achieved. Due to the fact that these construction/renovation sites are widely spread on the
territory of each region most contracts will be procured through Minor Works procedure.
Goods (US$ 38.11 million).   The goods contracts comprise: (i) computer hardware and software
(including both basic and specialized statistical packages); (ii) modem teaching and learning equipment for
general schools (science labs, gymnasium equipment, music rooms, etc. (iii) vocational training equipment;
(iv) buses for school transport; (v) furniture for offices and classrooms; (vi) office equipment
(photocopiers, faxes) for education administrations; (viii) publishing of dissemination materials and (vii)
small quantities of office equipment for the PIUs. International Competitive Bidding (US$ 17.86 million in
aggregate) will be followed for contracts for procurement of computer and office equipment. National
Competitive Bidding procedures (US$ 17.75 million in aggregate) will be used for contracts for teaching
and learning equipment, vocational training equipment, furniture, school vehicles and publishing under
contracts not to exceed US$400,000 each. International Shopping procedures (US$ 0.74 million in
aggregate) will be followed for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent. National
Shopping procedures (US$ 1.24 million in aggregate) will be followed for contracts estimated to cost less
than US$50,000. Taking into consideration very limited financial capabilities of the regions in general and
of educational structures in particular, the Bank has agreed that local transportation of the goods from the
suppliers' premises to certain central regional depots will be eligible for financing from the Loan proceeds.
Services (US$ 10.53 million). All consultants' assignments above the value of US$200,000 equivalent will
be advertised internationally and expressions of interest will be invited in the United Nations Development
Business. Most consultants for Bank-financed services contracts will be selected following Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures (US$ 4.65 million in aggregate). Certain assignments under the
project (training of education administrators in education policy development, education statistical analysis
and monitoring) require expertise which may only be available at public education, training and research
institutions. Such assignments may be conducted through Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedure (US$
0.70 million in aggregate) or when justifiable in accordance with criteria set out in the Consulting
Guidelines paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11, through Single Source Selection (US$ 1.18 million in aggregate).
Several small consultants' assignments will be contracted through Least-Cost Selection (LCS, US$ 0.28
million in aggregate) and Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ, US$ 1.78 million in
aggregate) methods. Where possible, assignments common to each pilot region will be procured as one
assignment. Short lists of consultants for contracts, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent,
may comprise entirely national consultants. Individual consultants (US$ 1.07 million in aggregate) will be
hired for a limited number of small assignments. Where appropriate, suitably qualified foreign individual
consultants will hired. These are primarily local advisors in school restructuring (developing busing
routes), procurement assistance at the regional PIU level and experts on statistics development and quality
assurance. The Bank will review all Terms of Reference. For assignments of exceptional value to the
project and for which that no suitable alternatives from private sector consultants are available, public
teaching and research institutes and universities otherwise not eligible for Bank financing may be hired
directly or as sub-consultants on a case-by-case basis in consultation with the Regional Procurement
Advisor.
Expert councils (US$ 0.43 million; part of the allocation for individual consultants) will be established for
each of the project components to evaluate the substance of the project, including main consultants reports,
and to develop proposals and recommendations for the MOE Strategic Committee for improvement of
activities and further dissemination of project outcomes. Members of the expert councils will be selected in
accordance with the World Bank procedures and the membership will be rotated on a yearly basis.
Grants (US$ 1.02 million). A small fund will be established to finance dissemination activities (for
- 69 -



example workshops, publishing materials) in regions outside the three pilot areas selected on a competitive
basis among applicants to implement certain lessons learned from the project. The NTF has a standard
agreement used under the Education Innovation Project which may be suitable for this purpose. Criteria
for selection of grant beneficiaries and disbursement procedures will be included in the Operational
Manual.
Training (US$ 5.22 million). Training of different categories of specialists (accountants, education
administrators, school directors, teachers, etc.) will be provided through study tours, seminars, workshops
and conferences. The financing will be used for covering travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses
for the participants. Training costs will also comprise tuition fee, premises rent, lecturers' remuneration,
office supply and training materials. When appropriate, a firm will be hired to provide "logistics services"
after comparison of three price quotations presented by suitable qualified local contractors or in accordance
with NCB procedures, as the case may be. Otherwise the NTF or regional PIUs will cover training costs
using procedures acceptable to the Bank (Agreed Procedure, AP), whereby an annual training program as
well as a budget is reviewed by the Bank. Training in procurement and financial management for new NTF
staff and the regional PIUs staff will be funded from the operating expenses category.
Operating Costs (US$ 4.35 million). The staff salaries of the NTF and regional PlUs will be funded by
the project. Selection of staff will be made on a competitive basis through a comparison of CVs. No
Government officials are to be employed by the PIU. Staff salaries will be financed 100% for the project
period. As with other Bank-supported PIUs, the Education Restructuring PIU(s) will disperse on
completion of the project. Other operating expenses, rent, consumables, communications will be disbursed
on the basis of annual operating budgets reviewed and approved by the Bank and also agreed upon bv the
Ministry of Finance.
- 70 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Russia: Education Restructuring Project
Table A - Procurement Arrangements by Method
(USS Million)
International       National
Competitive       Competitive
Bidding           Bidding         Other \e        N.B.F.           Total
A. Civil Works \a                                                                       3.12           1.56            4.68
(2.60)        (0.00)          (2.60)
B. Equipment
Computer & Office Equipment                    17.46                             0.60           0.12           18.18
(12.66)                           (0.45)         (0.00)        (13.11)
Training & Presentation Equipment               0.39             11.88           0.68                          12.95
(0.28)            (9.91)         (0.54)                       (10.73)
C. Software                                                                             0.34           0.02            0.36
(0.26)        (0.00)          (0.26)
D. Vehicles                                                              2.09           0.03                           2.12
(1.74)        (0.03)                         (1.77)
E. Publishing                                                             1.18          0.10           0.01            1.29
(0.98)        (0.09)         (0.00)          (1.07)
F. Materials/Literature                                                  0.67           0.23           0.01            0.91
(0.55)        (0.20)         (0.00)          (0.75)
G. Furniture                                                              1.93                         0.37            2.30
(1.61)                                       (1.61)
H. Consultant Services                                                                  9.65           0.88           10.53
(8.22)        (0.00)          (8.22)
1. Training \b                                                                          5.09           0.13            5.22
(4.24)        (0.00)          (4.24)
J. Grants \c                                                                            1.00           0.02            1.02
(1.00)        (0.00)          (1.00)
K. PIU Operating costs \d                                                               4.35                           4.35
(4.08)                        (4.08)
L. Front End Fee                                                                        0.50                           0.50
(0.50)                        (0.50)
M. Project Preparation                                                                                 0.83            0.83
(0.00)         (0.00)
N. Recurrent Costs                                                                                     5.87            5.87
(0.00)         (0.00)
Total                                                 17.85              17.75         25.69           9.82           71.10
(12.94)           (14.79)        (22.21)         (0.00)        (50.00)
\a Minor Works
\b Agreed Procedure
\c Agreed Procedure
\d Agreed Proceedure
\e Other methods
International Shopping $740,000
National Shopping $1,240,000
Consultants, See table Al
- 71 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms         4.65    0.70    0.00         0.28        1.78     1.18    0.88     9.47
(3.87)  (0.58)   (0.00)     (0.23)     (1.48)   (0.98)   (0.00)   (7. 14
B. Individuals    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00     1.07     0.00      1.07
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)   (1.07)   (0.00)   (1.07)
Total  4.65    0.70    0.00        0.28        1.78     2.25     0.88     10.54
(3.87)  (0.58)  (0.00)      (0.23)     (1.48)   (2.05)   (0.00)   (8.21)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Single-Source Selection, Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 72 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        <100                    MW                    First three
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                      All
<400                    NCB                      All
<100                     IS                   First three
<50                     NS                   First three
3. Services
Firms           >100                                              All
Any
<100                                         Only TORs
Individuals           >50                                             All
<50                                          Only TORs
4. Training                                              AP              Annual programs and
budgets subject to prior
review
5. PIU operating costs                                   AP             Annual budgets subject to
pnor review
6. Dissemination Grants                                  AP ~            Annual programns and
budgets subject to prior
review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: about US$ 30 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Regular supervision will be provided by the Moscow Procurement Team.
- 73 -



Table B1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
Background: The project will support the education reform strategy of the Russian government which aims to
improve efficiency and access to good quality education throughout the Russian Federation. The prcject will
build capacity for education policy development at federal level. It will pilot a set of reforms in general and
initial vocational education, in three very different regions of Russia: a donor region (Samara Oblast), a region
with an average level of development (Yaroslavl Oblast), and a recipient region (net recipient of transfers from
the federal budget) with a strong nationalistic identity (the Chuvash Republic). A mechanism to support the
dissemination of successful experience of education reform to other regions of the Russian Federatior will also
be developed.
Component 1 (US$11.2 million) - Federal Component: The objective of this component is to support: (i)
capacity development at federal level for education policy reform and for the dissemination of lessons learnt from
successful regional pilots; (ii) monitoring and improvement of quality and statistics; (iii) modern education
management training; and (iv) development of core skills and learning materials. The component will finance
international and national technical assistance for all four sub components, together with related necessary
equipment.
Component 2 (US$41.3 million) - Regional Component: The objective of this component, is to: (i} improve
public resources management (component 2.1); (ii) modemize the general schools network (component 2.2); and
(iii) improve the flexibility and market relevance of vocational education (component 2.3) in the three
participating Regions. Each Region has tailored an appropriate set of actions to accomplish these core
objectives.
Component 3 (US$6.6 million) - Project Management: To ensure efficient project management, this
component will provide resources to operate for the federal and regional PIUs for the duration of the iroject, five
years. This consists of stdff salaries, initial training in procurement and financial management for regional PIUs,
some skills upgrading for NTF staff, and consultancies to assist in building project management capacity at
regional level and to assist in developing specifications for equipment purchases and architectural
drawings/scope of work for school and office renovations. The costs of the annual audits, . mall office
equipment, and operating expenses such as communications and office supplies will also be financed by the loan.
Loan funding will be used for office space for the federal level PIU, whereas the regional adminis rations will
cover that expenditure for regional PIUs as part of their contribution of the project.
Procurement Capacity Assessment:
The NTF is setting up a separate PIU for the management of the project and to handle procurement under the
project. Since the main beneficiaries of the loan are located in the regions, it is important to recogrize that the
NTF will be responsible for supporting the regional PIUs in preparing bidding documents and assure compliance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines and the provisions of the Loan Agreement on procurement. During
Pre-appraisal and Appraisal stages of the project the regional PIUs have received some training in p-ocurement.
Nevertheless, during the initial stage of the project implementation, the NTF will be responsible for preparation
and the conduct of all procurement actions while the PIUs will assume responsibility for the deFinition and
quantification of their requirements and the suitable specification of the same as guided by their respective
consultants. They will be involved in evaluation of proposals and bids. These regional PIUs vwill also be
supported by external procurement consultants.
- 74 -



Action Plan: The action plan follows from the above and is:
(i) Complete the restructuring of the NTF
(ii) Employ two procurement specialists
(iii) Finalize draft Operational Manual and submit to Bank for review and no objections
(iv) Host a Project Launch Workshop at a time to be agreed with the Bank
A Country Procurement Assessment Report has been prepared and is under the review and discussions with the
Russian Government Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
negotiations? No major procurement but only hiring of consultants under the Portfolio Development Loan are
scheduled for the first year. However specifications for procurement of goods are ready and standard documents
will be used.
Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: TBD
Estimated date ofpublication of GPN: June 2001
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes (see procurement
plan)
Domestic Preferencefor Goods: Yes
Domestic Preference for Works :No
Retroactive Financing: No Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Monitoring will be organized internally through a computer-based monitoring system that will also be part
of the Bank required financial management system. Operational Manual will establish office and
procurement procedures and record keeping.
Co-Financing: All procurement under the Project, including co-financing will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines.
Indicate Name of Procurement Staff or Bank's part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Karl Skansing and Alexandre Roukavichnikov
Explain briefly the expected role of the Resident Mission in procurement: The Procurement Unit of the
Russia Country Office will carry out all necessary advisory and fiduciary functions under the Project
within the authorized thresholds
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 75 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
It is expected that the proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a period of five years, which
includes six months for completion of accounts and submission for withdrawal applications. The project
completion date is estimated to be June-30, 2006 and the closing date is estimated to be December 31,
2006.
Table C below sets for the allocation of loan proceeds. In addition to the loan and counterpart
funds, a sub-loan from the Portfolio Development Loan (PDL) will cover start-up implementation
costs prior to loan Effectiveness.
Table C - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed            Expenditures
Categorv                     in Dollars)            to be Financed
(1)   Federal Component
(a) Goods                          1,410,000             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80% of local expenditures of
other items procured locally,
including local transportation
and insurance related to
those items
(b) Consulting Services            7,910,000              100%
and Training
(c) Operating Costs                2,700,000             100%
(2)   Regional Component
(a) Samara Oblast
(i) Works                         1,260,000             80%
(ii) Goods                        12,860,000            100% of foreign expendittres,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80% of local expenditures of
other items procured locally,
including local transportat on
and insurance related to
those items
- 76 -



(iii) Consultant Services        2,080,000             100%
and Training
(iv) PIU Operating Costs         600,000                100%
(b) Yaroslavl Oblast
(i) Works                        870,000               80%
(ii) Goods                       7,230,000             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80% of local expenditures of
other items procured locally,
including local transportation
and insurance related to
those items
(iii) Consultant Services         1,370,000             100%
and Training
(iv) PIU Operating Costs         380,000                100%
(c) Chuvash Republic
(i) Works                        470,000               80%
(ii) Goods                       7,750,000              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
80% of local expenditures of
other items procured locally,
including local transportation
and insurance related to
those items
(iii) Consultant Services        1,060,000              100%
and Training
(iv) PIU Operating Costs         400,000                100%
(3)   Grants for Dissemination          1,000,000             100%
of Best Practices
(4)   Unallocated                       150,000
(5)  Front-end Fee                      500.000               Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.04 of this Agreement
TOTAL                                   50 000,000
- 77 -



Disbursement Percentages:
The disbursement percentages for categories I (b), l(c), 2(a)(iii), 2(a)(iv), 2(b)(iii), 2(b)(iv), 2(c)(iii),
2(c)(iv) and 3 in the above disbursement table have been calculated such that they are applicable to in voice
totals net of VAT. Disbursement percentages for all other disbursement categories are to be applied Io the
VAT-inclusive invoice totals.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Works - For Regional component           2.60                         80%
(Samara Oblast, Chuvash Republic,
Yaroslavl Oblast)
2. Goods                                    1.43               100% of foreign Expenditures
a. Federal Component and Federal PIU                       100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
b. Regional Component and Regional         27.97               100% of foreign Expenditures
PIUs (Samara Oblast, Chuvash                               100% of local expenditures (ex -factory
Republic, Yaroslavl Oblast)                                              costs)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultant Services & Training           7.96                    100% (excl VAT)
a. Federal Component and Federal PIU
b. Regional Component and Regional          4.71                    100% (excl VAT)
PIUs (Samara Oblast, Chuvash
Republic, Yaroslavl Oblast)
4. Grants                                   1.00                    100% (excl VAT)
5. PIU Operating Expenses                   2.67          100% of project management costs (PIU
a. Federal PIU                                             salaries, office accommodation, office
consumables, and communications)
b. Regional PIUs (Samara Oblast,            1.10          100% of project management costs (PIU
Chuvash Republic, Yaroslavl Oblast)                        salaries, office accommodation, office
consumables, and communications)
6. Unallocated                              0.06                    100% (excl VAT)
Total Project Costs                        49.50
Front-end fee         0.50
Total                                      50.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services for contracts
for (i) individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000
- 78 -



equivalent each; (c) seminars, workshops, and study tours costing less than $20,000 each; (d) PIU staff
consultants and incremental operating costs and (e) training and grants. Disbursements against goods and
services exceeding the above limits would be made against full documentation. Related documentation in
support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PIU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions and/or
program evaluators. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or
amounts in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the
Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the
Borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other
eligible expenditures that the Bank can accept to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank, acceptable to
the Bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of the Special
Account will be limited to US$1.0 million. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan
have reached $8.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to an authorized allocation of $2.0
million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum application size should be
20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three
months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The Borrower will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the Bank under
the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is being established at the PIU. The
Financial and Accounting Department of the PIU will maintain consolidated accounts for the project and
will prepare quarterly financial reports as part of PMRs.
In order to pay small local contracts and PIU staff salaries at the regional level, excluding those of civil
servants, Regional Project Accounts (an advance from the Special Account) with a limit of $50,000 will be
established for each of the regional PIUs, and replenishments to be made on a monthly basis.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
A Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA) was carried out in January 2001 (full report
contained in the project files).  The FMCA concluded that at federal level an adequate financial
management capacity exists in the NTF. It is envisaged the capacity building of the regional PIUs will be
completed by the end of first year of implementation. The Action Plan for strengthening the financial
management capacity (below) has been satisfied and the project has been certified by the Financial
Management Specialist, as meeting the minimum financial management requirements of the Bank.
- 79 -



Action Plan for strengthening financial management capacity
Action                                    Status         Responsible Party
PMR formats agreed with the Bank                     Completed         NTF
Agree with Regional PIUs on formats for project      Completed         Regional PlUs
reporting
List of supporting documents for maintaining Fixed   Completed         NTF and Regional PIUs
Asset Registers and formats of Registers agreed by
NTF and Regional PlUs
Draft TOR for audit of the project is prepared and   Completed         NTF
approved by the Bank
Operational Manual Volume I for NTF is updated       Completed         NTF
to reflect the changes after restructuring
Draft Operational Manual for the project is          Completed         NTF and Regional PlUs
approved by the Bank
- 80 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Project    dule                .                   !Ia- P  A-tuX-
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                           24
First Bank mission (identification)             07/13/98                      07/13/98
Appraisal mission departure                      11/30/2000                   11/30/2000
Negotiations                                    03/15/2001                    03/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education, Russian Federation
National Training Foundation
Preparation assistance:
* PHRD Grant
e Other Trust Funds: Irish Trust Fund, Dutch Trust Fund, United Kingdom Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                   _pe _lt-
Mary Canning                      Program and Task Team Leader, Lead Operations Officer
Isak Froumin                      Education Specialist
Maribeth Macica                   Operations Analyst
Karl Skansing                     Sr. Procurement Specialist
Alexandre Roukavichnikov          Procurement Specialist
Nancy Vandycke                    Economist
Lydia Petrashova                  Financial Management Specialist
Clifford Isaak                    Financial Management Specialist
David Freese                      Loan Department
Tatiana Frolova                   Loan Department
Anahit Poghosyan                  Program Assistant
Irina Reshetnikova                Team Assistant
Maris O'Rourke                    Sr. Advisor (Peer Reviewer)
Jo Ritzen                         Vice President (Peer Reviewer)
- 81 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Implementation Plan (including detailed procurement plan) - March/April 2001
2. Implementation Plan for the Introducation of Per Capita Financing in Samara Oblast, Chuvash
Republic, & Yaroslavl Oblast - December 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment - January 2001
2. Financial Management Capacity Assesment - January 2001
C. Other
1. Reforming Education in the Regions of Russia, December 1999 (World Bank ESW)
2. Social Assessment - October 2000
3. Report on the Education Reform project - description of Federal component, comparative description
of regional projects, and individual regional projects - Higher School of Economics in collaboration with
Scientific and Methodological Union "Life-long education", December 2000
4. Establishing an Education Monitoring System, Institute for New Education Technologies, in
collaboration with L. Gokhberg & A. Sokolov, December 2000
5. Development of a New Educational Administrators Training & Re-training System, Publishing film
"September", December 2000.
6. Revised C harter of the NTF - January 2001
*Including electronic files
- 82 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ MIlilons                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Revd
P046061        2001 MOSC URB TRANS                                    60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     60.00       0.00       0.00
P008832        2001 MUN WATER & WW                                    122.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00     122.50      0.00       0.00
P053830        2000 SUST FORESTRY PILOT                               60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     60.00       0.00       0.00
P058587        2000 REG FISC TA                                       30.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      29.00      3.50       0.00
P050487        1999 STATE STATS SYST                                  30.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      29.10      5.10       0.13
P046496        1998 SOC PROT IMPL                                     28.60       0.00                  0.00       0.00      16.88     15.33       0.00
P050486        1998 COALSECALII                                      800.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     150.00    150.00     150.00
P042720        1997 ST PETERSBURG REHAB                               31.00       0 00                  0.00       0.00       8.02      8.02       0.00
P008825        1997 EDUC INNOV                                        71.00       0.00                  0.00       3.00      58.52     17.46       0.00
P044200        1997 BUREAU OF ECON POL                                2260        0.00                  0.00       0.00      7.21       1.97       0.00
P050891        1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                    40.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      37.92     37.92      15.92
P008814        1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                               66.00       000                   0.00       0.00      50.93     34.54       0.00
P035764        1996 BRIDGE REHAB                                     350.00       0.00                  0.00     158.00      71.01    222.02       3.73
P045622        1996 COAL IAP                                          25.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       9.35      9.35       8.10
P036973        1996 ENT HOUSING DIVST                                300.00       0.00                  0.00      43.81    219.50     167.12       1.41
P042622        1996 CAP MRKT DEV                                      89.00       0.00                  0.00      33.75      37.89     68.40       2.11
P035761        1996 COMMUNITY SOC INF                                200.00       0.00                  0.00      43.50     107.76    104.76      18.76
P008801        1996 BIODIV CONSV (GEF)                                 0.00       0.00                 20.10       0.00       6.86      7.78      -3.47
P008800        1996 ODS CONSP PHASEOUT (GEF)                           0.00       0.00                 60.00       0.00      37.57     37.45       0.27
P038571        1996 MED EQUIP                                        270.00       0.00                  0.00      37.70     22.68      60.38       6.68
P008831        1996 LEGAL REFORM                                      58.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      34.05     34.05      -0.45
P001837        1996 STANDARDS DEV                                     24.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       5.33      5.33       5.33
P008803        1995 EGY EFF                                          106.50       0.00                  3.20       0.00     52.18      88.68      55.48
P008806        1995 URBAN TRANSPORT                                  329.00       0.M0                  0.00      55.00     27.31      82.31       0.00
P040409        1996 EMG OIL SPILL MrIGATION                           99.00       0.00                  0.00       o.0o      13.20      13.20      3.50
P008821        1995 EW MGMT                                          110.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      57.49     49.04       0.94
P008823        1995 PORTFOLIO DEVT                                    40.00       0.00                  0.00       1.81      15.24      17.05     11.45
P008827        1995 HOUSING                                          400.00       0.00                  0.00      30.00     196.77    226.77       0.00
P034579        1994 LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT                             80.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      49.08     49.08      -0.27
P008839        1994 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                               20000        0.00                  0.00       0.00     160.10     160.10      1.63
P008828        1994 FIN INSTS                                        200.00       0.00                  0.00      59.50      66.71     126.21     -0.18
P008811        1994 AGRIC REF IMPL                                   240.00       0.00                  0.00     118.20       5.09    123.29       3.29
Total:    4482.20        0.00               83.30       584.08    1825.26    1926.23     284.36
- 83 -



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995              A.O. Volga                   24.81   11.00    0.00   32.55   24.81   11.00    0.00   32.55
1996/98           Alpha Cement                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Aminex                        0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1999              Bitech-Silur                  17.50    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Borsteklo                      0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Campina                        7.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.98    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              DCC                            0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1995              Depsona Z.A.O.                 0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998              DreVo                          0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00
1995              First NIS Fund                 0.00    6.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.83    0.00    0.00
1994              Framlington Fund              0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Ikea MOS                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Mosenergo                     20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               OMGC                         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Pan American                  0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Pioneer First                  0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Polar Lights                  4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              RTDC                           0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Ramstore                      30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co                0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1995              Russ Tech Fnd                  0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Russia Registry                0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995               SCF                           0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00
1998              Toribank                       0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
1996              UNEXIM Bank                    5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              ZAO Pakenso                   6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      142.06   92.77    0.00   32.55   115.76   92.76    0.00   32.55
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001              Ramnstore II                 30000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co               3000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              SCF - RI                         0.00    273.10     0.00      0.00
2001              Bema Gold                        0.00      0.00   1000.00     0.00
1998              Depository Clear               500.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              Dukat Silver                     0.00      0.00   4900.00     0.00
1998              Elcoteq                          0.00      0.00    100.00     0.00
2000              Pan American                     0.00      0.00   3500.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    33500.00    273.10   9500.00     0.00
- 84 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Education Reform Project
EuroDe &    Lower.
POVERtTY sn4 SOCIAL                                 RuSIblin    Centrat  middle.
FaidnteonW       Asia  Income        Development dlamond
1999
Poowtaton. mid-vWVr flWb)                              146.2       475      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNPoercapitafltsms imo43to                             2.250     2.150      1200
ONP JAtV"mtWA        US$ Wkfst)1                       329.0      1.022     2,513
Avv*nt a ,1ue growth* 198-U94..
Pooulation Mt6                                          -03         0.1       1.1
Labor force (16                                          0.0        0.6       1.2      GNP,l                             Gross
per                             primary
Most recant estImlOW111 tlt  avil*Ie 1934r                                            capita                        enrollment
Povet t% otf AVOW0d11t bnotvenri*     w y                30
Urban ooojtsWtl  1% or toleopula*n)                      73         67        43
xScm at birth (ft                                    f 66       69        69
Wntant   n ftlw (per 1,000 av birthsy                    16         22         33
Chld nrtl8 ls  ofIdc *undOWr5                             3          8         15                Access to safe water
Acces to Improved wafir seoii t% Of DonlA 1                ..                  86
tlllbtea%of ouftion afm 4                                ?          3         16
Gross omerWy enrWllifet i     of _ Poisoat                t                  114              Russian Feda,ation
Male                                                  109        10t        114        -      ower-middle-Income group
Female                                                108         99       116
KEY ECsO0OMIC UATIOS sld LONG-TERIRM TN0$
187      19Sl9      tS98      1999
Ecornomic ratioa'
GOP USS btlInsi                                 ..   913.3        277.8     134.6
Goss domtestictnementtODP                        ..    33.8        15.7      15.                      Trade
Expofs n? oodsm am srvesGP                       ..    21.9        31.4      45.7
Gross dom"tc sVarnOOP                            ,      34.7      20.4       329
ross to ul eevN OP                               ..       ..       16.0      2f.7                        T
Cumnt 4cotmt tllafi1                                       .        0.3      11.2      Domestic 
ntre  pAVmenuGOP                             -                      IA        1.       Savings          tn estmesn           t
Total debVGDP                                    ..       ..       67.0      95.S
ToMS dew sviet5eot                                         ..      10.3      11.6
Cenrt yennuo de        eO_p .._.._5S.4                                         ..
F-reet Val" of debtexp                                            IVA ..-W6     .
Indebtedness
*sOW   "S99          tn         1"9S   1999*03
(averag  _0*1f grwh)
GOP                                   2.0      +2        4A         3.2       4.3         -Russian Federation
GNP wer cait                           ..      .6,6     4.          0.7       4.8          -    Lower-middle-income group
Escot of aoods and svices               ..     17       -2.3       -3.0       2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      GrowthrotInvestmentandGOP (%3
(% of GOP)
Aariculture                                      ..    16.8         5.4       6.6
Industry                                        ..    50.2        36.4       37.7      o
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..         ..        .,    10
Services                                         ..    33.0        58.2      55.7    -20
Private consumotion                              ..    45.1        65.8      54.5      30,
General oovernment consumption                  ..    20.1         13.8      12.6                    GD1    -0-GDP
Imorts of goods and services                    ..    21.0         26.6      26.3
(average annual growth)I                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                     ..    -7.0        -13.2       2.4    20 T
Industry                                        ..    -9.5         -5.2       8.1
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..         ,.         ..     0
Services                                         ..    -2.3        -2.5      -0.1 
Private consumDtion                             ..       1.4       -2.6      -5.3   .20
General government consumption                   ,.    -0.7         0.1       4.3
Gross domestic investment                       ..   -20.5        -26.0       5.6             -Exporls    -l1ports
Imoorts of goods and services                   ..    -3.9        -14.8     -29.9
Gross national oroduct                           ..    -6.8        .6.8       0.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four kev indicators In the country (in boldl coMDared with its income-aroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 85 -



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices                                                                       i01
(% chanqe)                                                                            1.000
Consumer pnrces                                  ..       ..      27.7      85.7       750
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..        ..      14.4      63.3      500
Govemment flnance                                                                      250,
(% of GDP, includes current qrints)
Current revenue                                  ..       ..      30.2      33.5               94   95   96   97   96    9
Current budget balance                          ..        ..       -2.8       1.6                GDP deflator  - e  CPl
Overall surplus/defici                           ..       ..       -8.3     -3.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..       ..   74,888    75,306       100.oo0
Crude oil                                      ..       ..    10,276    14,089
Natural qas                                    ..       ..    13,502    11,352      75.00-
Manufactures                                        ..          9.000     8,609
Total imports (cif)                              ..             60.438    41,261      so,00
Food                                           ..       ..   10.800      8,137       25:00*
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..      1,654      451
Capitalgoods                                   ..       ..    15,856    10,167          0
93  94  96  96  97  98  1.1
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        83        83
Import prce index (1995=100)                    ..        ..        87        88                *Exports      KImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       ..        95        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Curent account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       ..    87,259    84,346      12 ,
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..   74,013    52,288
Resource balance                                 ..       ..   13,246    32,058
Net income                                       ..       ..  -11,900   -11,900
Net current transfers                            ..       ..      -409       534                                         I
Current account balance                          ..                937    20,692                                           _
Financing items (net)                           ..             -11,701   -16,865      0 .
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..    10,764    -3,827          93   94  9s   96   97   99 98
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       .     12,223    12,456
Conversion rate (localIUS$)                      ..       ..        9.7      24.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..  186,114   176,898
IBRD                                          ..        .      6,424     6,809
IDA                                            ..       ..         0         0               G: 5,365  A. 6,809
Total debt service paid                          ..       ..      9,100    9,834                                     0:57
iBRD                                                             383       520
IDA                                            .        .          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                       F: 80,733
Official grants                               ..        ..        85                  F: 80,733
Official crediors                             ..        ..       822      -707                                   E : 6,696
Private creditors                             ..        ..     9,657      -200
Foreign direct investment                     ..        ..     2,764       746
Portfolio equity                              ..        ..       296       368
World Bank program
Commitments                                   *.        ..     1,500       430      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..               1,228       538       - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                                ..             66       150      C - IMF                     G - Short-terr, 
Netflows                                       ..       ..     1,162       388
Interest payments                             ..        ..       317       370
Net transfers                                 ..        ..       845        18
Development Economics and Country Team.
- 86 -



IBRD 31263
I Aorulh                        XII  V alga- I'valka                                                     -RSiNFDRlO
1IArlkh-gel'sk Oblost         48 CIweselh Republic                                                                                                               RUSSINeFEDRAeeC
2 Necets Autonomou s Okrug    49 KIrC- Oblest                                                                                            ED       C     TOAR S                R    C    U    IN          R    J C
3Kurelion Republic           50Maci-El Republic                                                                                         ED      C     TI N R STUoJ I G                               PR      J C
4 Koo Republic                51 Mordvinocm Republic         koot4u  s    :tesn
5M.,m..sk Oblast  52 NiA.9-cl Oblast                                                                      PROJECT AREAS                   OBLAST, OKRUG, REPUBLUC, RZAY                                                                                 S.&
Murmonsb Oblost  52 Niubegorod Oblost   ~~~~~~~                                                       PROJECT AREAS ~~AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OR
6 Volodu Oblst         VII LValbed,.*                                                                                                           NTOACPIL                            AUTONOMOUS OKRUG BOUNDARIES
II No(-h wll I%                 53 Eesbbortosto  Republic                                                                                         -      RIVERS                           ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES.
7No-gorod Oblost              54 Cbelyobinskb 1s                                                                                                                                         INEN-NLBON                 IS8
8 Psko Oblast                 55 Korgu- 0bo6145                                                                                                                                         ITRATOA  BUDRIS
9 Luciogrod Oblast            56 Oreebueg Oblaest             - -                                                                     --C9-,-
1 0St. Petersburg City          57 Perm'Oblcist                                                                                                                                                                                                'eS./
1 IKolinigred Oblast           58 Kcmi-Perc,yok Aut. Ok. 
III  Central          ~59 Udmurt Republic                       -'--
12 Bry..sk 061        ~60 Sverdlovub Ob1esi ct-c-y                                                                                                                                                                    i
1   robOlost                                                  sceec                                              uA                                                                                                                                                        (
13 ocnovOblost                 tX   W1est  iteri t                                                                                                                                   t
1 4Kelugo Oblest               61 Alloy Koep                    Y-                                               r42CQ,
15Kostrom    bIecst            62 Alley Republic                                SWEDEN25              /                                                                                                       Lt,-w- cu-   
16Mosco  Oblast                63 Kemeroo Oblest            /
17Mosco  City                  64 Nooosibirsl,c6oblst                           81sce5I1-i                                                                                                        <>-
1 8Orel Oblast                 65 OmiskOblest                 u        -9
19 Ryozon' Oblast              66 lomsk O&-et                                 C'5 /yK-  S..'                                                                                                                       5'                    ~c
20 Smoleosk Oblest              67 Ipume' Obl.st                                           FINLANC  C1  I?-                                                     Keo$e                        .fr
2 1T 0un 6Oblst                 68 Khenty-MonsiyAut. Ok.   toeK   
22 Tub 0b1est                   69 Yemol-Necets Au, Ou.       euu)                                                                (\       -78 E
23 VudimcOblst          XEast Siberia                       ~-
24 Yaroelol' Ohlust     70 Euryot Republic            \4,, Y                                 j          -[      1                                            -
IN' Cestlra  (jhi-it ertto-etn    71Chit. 0bles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S.. 9 
25 Bn1gorod Oblost              72 Ago Buryot Aut Obrug                                                                                                                                                                                89  /I
26 Kcrsk Oblost                 73 Irkuosk Oblast                                                                                 -     -                                                                                                -
27  ipetsk Obl.st               76 Ust'-Orde Euryt Act. Ok.  .'  BRU                                 6
29 Voroneb Oblast               76 Ecelob Aul. 0km8            N                11            K
V   Var/b Canc-auas-   77 Kbhlkss Republic               tr./ I         l2cc*,-,,69                                                                              .                                           
30 Cheeio Republic             78 Toymyr Aol Okrug              f-~$                  1
31 Dogestan Republic            79 T-co Reubi                                  12                          .      49                   ,                                                    -     I-1-8
32 lngusbefio Republic          x I  Far Fast                   U       ,      26                                        581  5                                                 
33 Kebordino-Be1kor Republic   80 Asnur Oblost           ~                                            8            59                            --15        I 
34 Kresnder Keep                81 Kamchatkca Oblest                             29I                                                60.                                                                                                                       4c
35 Adygey Republic              82 Koryob Aut. Okrog           -'                              2   17'  42                                                                                                                                                        so-. 
36 Nortb Osseiioo Republic      83 Khbrob ,,sb Kroy                           .                                             '110.                                                                                                                                                                                 5
37 Rostov ObIost                84 lewish Act. Oblost           J'-.       /y                           S 4r'
38 Stronropol' Krcy             85 Mogadan Oblest                                                                                          4  17 
39 Kerocboy-Cberbesu Republic  86 Chukotko Aut. Olk-g             34      374j                      1.                                                                                                                                                   
87 Priu  skiy Kry          -j                                -P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         6~5                                                                          70           71                                                6
40 AstebbeelOblest      88 sekbelim Oblest               .N'                                                                        'I~s
41 Kol'myk Republic             89 Sekbo Republic lYokutiel       .              41                                                               __t,  ~<   64                                                 .                                                                          t-p
42 Pen-o  lablst                                                     032                                                                                                                                                                    72       I/A17 7 
43 Samara Oblast                                                      la 
44 SrotoOluost   I Ecttitllohini Regitot -i1 fnA                                                                                                                                                                                            ~       ,
45 Tote,sten Republic   1   0blest, Olbrugs, Republics        uey,-(v                                                                                                                                                  .c'                                 ,jclirc
465 Volgo,ged Oblest        Keops, A,tonomou 0blosts, or              )   c,                                              3         , $0           5uN                         42)C,
47 UI'yooosb Oblest  Auto-omos Okrogs                                                               S ,    '  Oi'u .C-t                                             N           /9,u
JAN4UoY 2M5



