Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4605 RU
Loan Agreement
(Education Reform Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 8, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4605 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 2002, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto;
(c)
"NTF" means National Training Foundation, a non-profit organization 
established pursuant to the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation     
No. 1273-P, dated August 12, 1994, operating under the laws and regulations of the 
Borrower pertaining to non-commercial organizations, and acting on the basis of its 
Charter registered by the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, dated September 29, 1994, 
and re-registered by Moscow Registration Chamber on February 28, 2001, (Registration 
No. 002033537) as the same such Charter may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Operational Manual" means a manual setting forth the procedures and 
rules related to Project implementation, to be adopted by NTF satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(e)
"Participating Regions" means the Chuvash Republic, Samara Oblast and 
Yaraslavl Oblast;
(f)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
between the Borrower, represented by MOF and MOE, and NTF in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h)
"Regional Implementation Plans" means the plans agreed between MOF, MOE, 
and the Participating Regions for the purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, and included in 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(i)
"Regional PIU" means a non-commercial organization founded by the NTF and 
the education department or ministry of a Participating Region for the purposes of 
assisting the Participating Region with the carrying out a Regional Implementation 
Plan under the Project;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
"Strategic Committee" means the committee to be established by the 
Borrower through MOE and NTF in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.1 of 
Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(l)  
"Subsidiary Loan" means any loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement as defined herein; and
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered into pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the "Project 
implementation entity" shall be deemed as a reference to NTF.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the effective date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in US dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Page  4
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(a)
carry out the Project, through MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and education practices;
(b)
cause NTF to perform in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Agreement all the obligations of NTF therein set forth;
(c)
cause the Participating Regions to perform in accordance with the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the Participating Regions therein 
set forth;
(d)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable 
the NTF and the Participating Regions to perform the obligations referred to in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, and not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(e)
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
through the MOF and MOE, enter into an agreement with NTF (the Project 
Implementation Agreement), on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall include terms specifying the responsibilities of NTF in respect of coordination 
of Project activities, accounting, preparation of requests for withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, procurement and administrative support of the Regional PIUs, and make 
available to NTF the portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to Parts A and 
C.1 of the Project on a non-reimbursable basis;
(c)
for purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project make available the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the Participating Regions 
under agreements (the Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, represented by the MOF and MOE, and each such Participating Region not later 
Page  5
than within six (6) months from the date of this Agreement’s effectiveness, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation, the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
containing a description, satisfactory to the Bank, of the activities to be carried 
out by the Participating Region pursuant to the Project and undertakings related 
thereto (the Regional Implementation Plans), and containing other provisions as may be 
necessary for the implementation of the Project; and
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof without a prior agreement with the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the per capita financing schemes 
for general education expenditures in the Participating Regions are implemented in 
accordance with  the Operational Manual.  
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, or cause to 
be prepared, financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause NTF to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds, and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
sub-paragraph (i) of this Section for such year so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
Page  6
NTF to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause NTF to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, or cause to be furnished 
to the Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project 
management report for such period, acceptable to the Bank, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Participating Region shall have failed to perform any of its 
Page  7
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)
The Project Implementation Agreement or the Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out the Project; and
(c)
NTF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Implementation Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
the event specified in paragraph and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Regional PIUs have been legally established and have become 
operational, with facilities, resources, and staffing satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by NTF; and
(c)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been duly executed by the 
Borrower and NTF and Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly executed by the 
Borrower and at least two of the Participating Regions.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Implementation 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective 
Participating Regions, and the same are legally binding upon the MOF, MOE, and the 
respective Participating Regions in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance responsible 
for international economic affairs is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
Page  8
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
Facsimile:
112008
(7-095) 925-0889
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1 202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuri V. Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Federal Component 
(a) Goods
  1,410,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally, including local 
transportation and 
Page  9
insurance related to 
those items
(b) Consulting Services   7,910,000
100%
and Training
(c) Operating Costs 
  2,700,000
100%
(2)
Regional Component
(a) Samara Oblast
(i)   Works
  1,260,000
80% 
(ii)  Goods
 12,860,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally, including 
local transportation 
and insurance related 
to those items
(iii) Consultant 
  2,080,000
100%
      Services and 
Training
(iv) Operating Costs  600,000
100%
(b) Yaroslavl Oblast
(i)   Works
    870,000
80%
(ii)  Goods
  7,230,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally, including local 
transportation and 
insurance related to 
those items
(iii) Consultant 
 1,370,000
100%
      Services and 
Training
(iv) Operating Costs 380,000
100%
(c)  Chuvash Republic 
 (i)   Works
   470,000
80%
 (ii)  Goods
 7,750,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); 80% 
of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally, including local 
transportation and 
insurance related to 
those items
 (iii) Consultant  1,060,000
100%
Page  10
       Services and 
 Training
 (iv) Operating Costs400,000
100%
(3)
Grants for Dissemination 1,000,000
100%
of Best Practices
(4)
Unallocated
   150,000
(5)
Front-end Fee
   500,000
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
50,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental expenses incurred 
by the NTF and Regional PIUs on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring set forth in the approved annual budget of the NTF or the Regional PIU, 
adopted pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual, including the cost of: 
(i) maintenance of office equipment and facilities and minor office renovation; (ii) 
office goods and supplies; (iii) rent and utilities; (iv) Project management related 
training, including the cost of training materials; (v) communication; (vi) 
remuneration of NTF and Regional PIU staff (excluding civil servants); (vii) 
transportation and travel; and (viii) Project-related auditing services, bank charges 
and supervision costs; 
(d)
the term "Grants for Dissemination of Best Practices" means grants to 
regions wishing to undertake reform efforts connected with the successful lessons of 
the pilot projects, as referred to in Part E of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(e)
the term "Training" means Project related costs and expenses related to 
study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities which may be carried 
out through a consultant services contract, or with the agreement of the Bank, by 
other means.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; or (b) payments made for expenditures by any Participating Region under 
Category (2) unless
the Borrower shall have furnished evidence acceptable to the Bank 
that the Participating Region concerned has achieved satisfactory progress in the 
achievement of its targets with respect to the per capita financing schemes referred 
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, (d) Operating Costs; (e) Training; 
and (f) Grants under Category (3) of this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide assistance to the MOE and 
competitively selected Regions of the Borrower to reform general and initial 
vocational education in order to: (i) improve the quality of education; (ii) promote 
Page  11
the efficient and equitable use of scarce public resources for education; (iii) 
modernize the education system (structure of network and institutions); and (iv) 
improve the flexibility and market-relevance of initial vocational education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Federal Level 
Assistance in the form of capacity building support (including Grants for 
Dissemination of Best Practices) to formulate the education reform strategy of the 
government of the Borrower, through the development of new policies, services and 
procedures for:  
(i) 
education policy reform and the dissemination of lessons learnt 
from successful regional pilots; 
(ii) 
improvement of quality monitoring and statistics; 
(iii) modern teacher and education management training; and 
(iv) 
development of core skills and learning materials.
Part B:   Regional Pilots
Pilot projects carrying out reforms in general and initial vocational education 
in three regions: Chuvash Republic, Samara Oblast and Yaroslavl Oblast, through 
on-lending to Regional administrations, in order to: (i) promote the efficient and 
equitable use of public resources; (ii) modernize the general education schools 
network; and (iii) modernize the initial vocational schools network and improve market 
relevance of vocational education.
Part C:  Project Management 
1.
Support for the federal-level project implementation (through NTF), including 
operating costs.
2.
Support for the Regional PIUs, including operating costs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2006
through    September 15, 2017
2,085,000
On March 15, 2018
2,045,000
Page  12
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $400,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Certain types of goods (teaching and learning materials and equipment, 
vocational training equipment, furniture, school vehicles, publishing and duplication 
of Project related materials) estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
Page  13
aggregate amount not to exceed $535,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures, after at least three 
quotations have been obtained, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,020,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, after at least three quotations 
have been obtained, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,720,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings and bills of quantity, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) the first three contracts for goods to be procured 
in accordance with the procedures referred to in C.2 above, and (ii) the first three 
contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
C.3 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  14
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:  General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
2.
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part B:  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for administrators training, statistical surveys and policy analysis 
under Parts A and B of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Certain services (preparing specifications and drawings for construction works, 
development of quality tests and regional information network) estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Certain services (small local public relations campaigns and surveys, 
development of specific leaning materials and the like) estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for educational policy analysis and for monitoring and statistical 
surveys which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services of local advisors in school restructuring, procurement assistance at 
the Regional PIU level, and examination of statistics development and quality 
assurance as well as hiring of members of Expert Councils
shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
6.
Public Education, Training and Research Institutions
Services of unique and exceptional nature may be procured from public education, 
training and research institutions in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
paragraphs 1-4 above, provided, however, that no suitable alternatives from private 
sector consultants are available.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
individual consultants not referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) above, terms of 
reference shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1.
The Borrower through MOE shall establish a committee (the Strategic Committee) 
for the purposes of providing oversight over the implementation of the Project, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, with a composition to include the 
representative of the MOE, as chairman, and representatives of the education 
department or ministry of a Participating Region, the NTF, and members of selected 
educational and/or academic institutions.
2.
The MOE shall be responsible for the overall management and implementation of 
the Project, in particular: (a) defining the Project implementation strategy; (b) 
approving Government documents related to the Project; and (c) approving and 
Page  16
controlling the fulfillment of the Project’s work programs and budgets.
3.
NTF shall be responsible for general project management, and shall assist the 
Strategic Committee in the overall coordination of the Project activities, and shall 
also be responsible for financial management, procurement, disbursement, and 
preparation of progress reports and annual reports in respect of or related to the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, NTF and 
Regional PIUs at all times function in a manner, and with staff, consultants, 
facilities and other resources necessary for the management and implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank. 
B.
Annual (Quarterly) Reports and Work Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause NTF to: (a) provide to the Bank, by April 1 of each 
year throughout the execution of the Project, an annual report on the progress of 
Project implementation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, including a draft annual project plan for the following year; and (b) carry 
out annual assessment to monitor the impact of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, a quarterly progress report, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
outlining progress made in the implementation of the Project, as well as the problems 
encountered and how they are being addressed.
3.
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under the Project, the 
Borrower, through NTF, shall:
(a)
select the beneficiaries and the providers of such training programs in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than December 31 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the annual results of the training programs and the benefits 
derived therefrom.
C.
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made 
with the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of 
the Project.
D.
Implementation Plans for the Participating Regions
The Borrower shall, through the MOE and NTF, assist the Participating Regions to 
implement their respective Implementation Plans in accordance with criteria acceptable 
to the Bank. 
E.
Grants for Dissemination of Best Practices 
1.
Recipients of Grants for Dissemination of Best Practices shall be selected in 
accordance with specific eligibility criteria and a model grant agreement set forth in 
the Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The items eligible to be financed under the Grants shall be determined by the 
Borrower in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
F.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Page  17
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 1, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Annex to SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
The following terms and conditions of on-lending shall apply for the purposes of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this 
Agreement:
1.
Principal Amount of Subsidiary Loans
The Borrower shall make available to the Participating Region the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated to the Participating Region under the respective categories of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. One-half (50%) of such 
amount shall be on a grant basis and one-half shall be repayable through a Subsidiary 
Loan. The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account) and be equal to the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of goods or services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan for the Implementation Plans carried out by the 
Participating Region concerned. 
2.
Repayment Term
The Subsidiary Loan shall be repayable by the Participating Region over a period 
of up to seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of up to five (5) years.
3.
Interest and Other Payments
The Participating Region shall pay: (i) interest on the repayable portion of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a variable rate 
equivalent to two and one-half percent (2.50%) above the interest rate determined in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
commitment charge on the repayable portion of the Subsidiary Loan at the rate equal to 
the rate payable by the Borrower according to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
4.
The Participating Region shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the respective Regional Implementation Plan with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
education practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Regional Implementation Plan;
(b)
introduce changes in the level of per capita financing for general 
education expenditures as specified for each Participating Region in the Operational 
Page  18
Manual in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
report to the Bank and the Borrower, annually, on the status of the 
activities being carried out in the Participating Region under the Project, with 
reference to the indicators referred to in Paragraph F.1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the activities financed out of the proceeds of the respective Subsidiary Loan, and to 
record separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Subsidiary 
Loan;
(e)
procure, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the goods, works and consultants services required under the respective 
Regional Implementation Plan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the respective 
Subsidiary Loan;
(f)
carry out of the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions in respect of its activities under the 
respective Regional Implementation Plan;
(g)
provide assistance to and cooperate with the NTF with respect to the 
NTF’s procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting functions under Part B and 
C.2 of the Project; 
(h)
give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Region to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by 
such party to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan; and
(i)
ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made with the 
Participating Region's budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs 
of its respective part of Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
Page  19
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  20
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
