RESTR ICTED
FlLE      COlPY                      Report No.   p-7
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do rnot accept responsibility for its occuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PR ESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
July 31,    1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$3.5 million to the Republic of Ghana to assist in financing a water
supply and sewerage project in the Accra-Tema area.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The project was identified as a result of a consultantst study
of the water supply and sewerage needs of the Accra-Tema area under a
UNDP (Special Fund) project started in 1963 with the World Health Organi-
zation (WHO) as the executing agency. Detailed design of the project was
undertaken in December 1967 under the second phase of the UNDP project,
and in June 1968 the Government requested the Association's assistance
in financing the proposed project, which forms part of a Master Plan for
water supply and sewerage of the area. The proposed project was appraised
in October 1968, and negotiations were held in Washington in May 1969.
The negotiators for the Republic of Ghana and the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) were:His Excellency E. M. Debrah, Ambassador of Ghana
to the United States; Mr. C. K. Annan, Managing Director, GWSC; Mr. A.
Saravanapavan, Area Manager, GNSC; Mr. C. B. Mate-Kole, Principal Assistant
Secretary, MiLnistry of Works and Housing; and Mr. Chinery-Hesse, Acting
Solicitor General.
3*        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Ghana as of June 30, 1969:
Loan or                                               Amount (US$ million)
Credit No.   Year     Borrower        Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
310 GH       1962     VRA             Power         47.0            0.1
I18 GH       1968     Republic of     Power distri-
Ghana           bution             10.0     5.9
618 GH       1969     VRA             Power expan-
sion           6.0            6.0
Total (less cancellations)                    53.0   10.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                           2.1
Total now outstanding                       50.9
Amount sold:                     0.1
of which has been repaid       0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA              50.9   10.0
Total undisbursed                            6.1    5.9    12.0



- 2 -
The Volta Project, financed by Loan No. 310-GH, was completed in
early 1966 about a year ahead of schedule and at considerable savings
under the original cost estimates. The loan documents for a second
loan of $6.0 million to the Volta River Authority for the Volta
Expansion Project were signed on June 23, 1969. The construction
works for the power distribution project, financed by Credit No. 1l8-GH,
is progressing satisfactorily. The Electricity Corporation of Ghana
had had difficulties on its accounting and financial side, but has
now taken remedial measures suggested by IDA, including employment
of a firm of consultants and a qualified chief accountant.
4.        The proposed credit would be the fifth Bank group financing
in Ghana, including a credit of $1.5 million for a Highway Engineering
Project, which was signed on July 29, 1969. A credit of US$1.3 million
for a Fisheries Project is seheduled for presentation to the Executive
Directors shortly.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        BORROWER:             The Republic of Ghana.
BEIIEFICIARY:         The Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
PURPOSE:              To finance the foreign exchange cost of
extending the water distribution system
in the Accra-Tema area and installing a
sewerage system for central Accra,
together with consulting services.
AMOUNT:               US$3.5 million.
AMIORTIZATION:        In 50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace through semiannual installments
of 1½ of 1% from December 15, 1979 through
June 15, 1989 and of 1-a from December
15, 1989 through June 15, 2019.
SERVICE CHARGE:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
RELENDIiN TERMS:      The Borrower would relend the entire
proceeds of the credit to the Ghana Water
and Sewerage Corporation at 6-½g per
annum for about 20 years including a 3-½
year period of grace.



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Accra-Tema
Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (PU-12a) is attached.
7.        The proposed project will be administered by GWSC, a semi-
autonomous agency created in 1965 as a result of a study by WHO
consultants. GWSC's responsibilities are countrywide. Since it
commenced operations in September 1966, it has shown poor financial
results, stemming largely from the operation of some 54 unprofitable
local water supply systems serving some 360 communities throughout
Ghana which it took over from the Ministry of Works and Housing.
While there are no immediate prospects of GWSC as a whole becoming
profitable, a review is being made of the individual systems outside
the Accra-Tema area with a view to tightening up their management,
improving their operations and raising their rates. The proposed
project is confined to the Accra-Tema area where revenues have
exceeded operating costs, and the completion of the project will
result in a viable operation in this area.
8.        The project is the extension of the water distribution system
in Accra and Tema, installation of water meters and other ancillary
equipment, provision of a sewerage system for central Accra and related
consulting services. Total cost is estimated at $5.9 million, of which
$3.5 million will be in foreign exchange. The proposed credit would
cover the entire foreign exchange cost of the project, and the proceeds
would be applied towards purchase of water and sewer pipes and accessories,
pumps, mechanical and electrical equipment and the foreign exchange
component of installation costs and consultantst services.
9.        Though GVWSC lacks experience in utility management, it has a
number of qualified engineers and accountants on its staff. It is
expected that the Accra-Tema area organization of GWSC, which is headed
by a seasoned area manager, will, with the assistance of consultants,
be able to carry out and operate the project satisfactorily.
10.       Water supply in the project area has become precarious since
the failure in 1968 of the Weija Dam, which was the main source of
supply for the area. The diversion of surplus capacity available at
Kpong water works, by means of the additional distribution system
provided in the proposed project, offers the minimum cost feasible
alternative to meet the expected demand for water supply in the capital
city and its neighboring port. There is currently no waste disposal system
in Accra, and the proposed sewerage project would not only serve the
most congested part of the city, which has an acute problem of sewage
collection and disposal, but also provide the essential basic elements
of a sewerage system for the city of Accra, which could be further
expanded at a later date. In view of the urgent need for these facilities,
the Government accords a high priority to the project.



- 4 -
11.       The incremental rate of return on the proposed water project
is estimated to be about 25%p. While the financial rate of return on
the water supply assets in the Accra-Tema area is estimated to be 4%
at the end of the construction in 1973, this would increase to at least
8% in 1978. The sewerage project is expected to cover operating costs
including depreciation from 1974 onwards.
12.       In addition to the important need that the project would
fulfillJ and the return that it would earn, the proposed credit also
provides an opportunity to instill a measure of financial discipline
and management improvement in GWSC as a whole.
13.       Procurement of items financed under the credit (other than
consulting services) would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Disbursements would be made for the actual foreign exchange
cost of materials and equipment and the foreign exchange component of
services.
14.       The project is well conceived and is technically and economically
sound.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Ghana and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and GWSC, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a Resolution approving the proposed development credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Project
Agreement generally follow the pattern of other agreements for water
supply projects. The following provisions are of special interest:
(a) The Borrower and GWSC will enter into arrangements
whereby GWSC will make payments to the Borrower
during 1973-1993 on account ofdebt incurred and
serviced by the Borrower for fixed assets of GWSC.
(Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement
and Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement)
(b) The Borrower will take responsibility for the capital
cost and operating losses of uneconomic projects
undertaken by GWSC at the Borrower's request. (Section
4.09 of the Development Credit Agreement)
(c) Sections 2.09 and 2.10 of the Project Agreement provide
that GWSC shall establish and maintain rates and charges
so as to realize in the Accra/Tema area the rate of
return from water supply operations and the coverage of
the operating costs of sewerage operations referred to
in paragraph 11 above.



- 5 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A report on "The Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ghana" (AW-6a), and a subsequent updating economic memorandum dated
June 12, 1969, were circulated to the Executive Directors on May 7,
1969 and June 19, 1969, respectively.
18.       The salient features of Ghana's economy were discussed in
the "Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Volta River Authority with the
Guarantee of the Republic of Ghana" (P-703),dated May 22, 1969.   Its
main conclusion was that, even to make a modest growth in GDP of the
order of 4h% per annum possible, Ghana would require a substantial
inflow of resources to finance an increase in investment, particularly
in agriculture, power, and road transport.  With heavy maturities of
past borrowings to be met and with large amounts of fresh money to be
raised, it is important that Ghana borrow a substantial part of its
requirements on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMIENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
July 31, 1969



