InvY            RESTRI CTED
"it  COP                               Report No. PU-12a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF TIIE
ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
GHANA
July Z5, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQtTIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -      New Cedi  (NO)
One New Cedi NO    -       100 new Pesewa
US$ 1               -      NO 1.02
US$ 1 million       -      NO 1,020,000
NO 1                -      US$ 0.98
NO 1 million        -      US$ 980,000
ABBREVIATIONS
GWSC                     -      Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
Metropolitan Area        -      The Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area
WHO                      -      World Health Organization
UNDP (Special Fund)      -       United Nations Development
Program (Special Fund)
PAS                      -       Public Administration Service
Gallon                   -       Imperial gallon
(1 gallon = ).5 litres or 1.2
lJ.S. gallons)
3Mgd                     -      million imperial gallons per day
(1 IMgd = 4,54h cubic meters/day)
gpcd                     -      gallons per capita per day
(1] r;d = h.5b litres/day)
L4g                      -      million imne--i2l glqlons
FISCAL YEAR
July 1          -       June 30



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ACCRA-TE4A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                         i
1.        INTRODUCTION                                                    1
2.        WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN GHANA                       2
A. Relation to Ghanaian Econozy                              2
B.  Present Position                                         2
C.  Existing Facilities in Accra-Tema Area                   4
D.  Sewerage and Sewage Disposal                             5
E.  Development Program                                      5
3.        THE PROJECT                                                      7
A.  Description                                              7
B.  Cost Estimates                                           7
C. Design, Construction and Supervision of
Construction                                          8
D.  Procurement and Disbursement                             9
4.        JUSTIFICATION                                                  10
5.        THE BORROIER AND BENEFICIARY                                   12
A. The Borrower                                             12
B. The Beneficiary                                          12
C.  Financial Position and Earnings                         13
Accounting                                         13
Audit                                              14
Balance Sheet                                      14
Past Income                                        16
D.  Water Rates                                             16
Billings and Collection                            18
Sewerage Rates                                     19
6.        FUTURE FINANCES                                                20
A.  Financing Plan                                          20
B.  Financial Projections                                  21
7.        AGREESEN1TS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS                        23



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANINEX
1   Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities in the
Metropolitan Area
2   Detailed Description of Proposed Project
3   Cost Estimates of Proposed Project
4   Construction Schedule
5   Population and Water Consumption Statistics and
Projections
6   Incremental Return on Proposed Water Supply Project
7   Organization Chart of Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
8   Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1968
9   Income Statement for September 1, 1966 to June 30, 1968
10   Schedule of Existing Water Rates and Proposed Wiater Rates
11   Estimated Income Statements 1968-1978
12   Estimated Sources and Application of Funds 1968-1978
13   Estimated Balance Sheets 1968-1978
14   Assumptions for Financial Projections
15   Debt Service Schedule on previous projects financed by
Suppliers' Credits
MAPS
1   Ghana - Existing Piped Water Supplies
2   Accra Watermains and Sewerage
3   Tema Watermains



APPRAISAL OF THE
ACCRA-TENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This report covers the appraisal of a water distribu-
tion system and sewerage project in Ghana for which an IDA credit
of US$3.5 million equivalent is proposed.   The project seeks to
improve the organization and operations of the Ghana Water & Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC), a semi-autonomous agency responsible for water
supply and sewerage services in the country.
ii.       GWSC is a new agency created in September 1966.   Management
consultants provided under a UNDP (Special Fund) project assisted in
the initial establishment and functioning of GWSC.  Special attention
has been given to the Accra-Tema area organization of GWSC which would
be responsible for the proposed project, to correct inherited defi-
ciencies in organization, management and accounting.   GWJSC is in need
of further management assistance and has agreed to employ consultants
acceptable to IDA for improving its management and operations.
iii.      The project represents GWSC's water supply and sewerage
development program for Accra-Tema area for 1970-1973 and consists
of (a) laying new water mains in Accra, the capital of Ghana, and Tema,
Ghana's main port, provision of service connections and installation
of water meters and (b) construction of a new sewerage system in
central Accra and arrangements for disposal of sewage into the ocean.
iv.       The project has been prepared by consultants financed under
a UJNDP (Special Fund) project.   Detailed engineering is underway.
The project is estimated to cost about US$5.9 million equivalent,
including contingencies.   Contracts would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding.   The foreign exchange conpon-
ent of the project is estimated to be US$3.5 million.
v.        The project has the highest priority in the water supply
and sewerage sector in Ghana.   Water supply to West Accra has become
precarious since the failure of the Weija Dam, the main source of
supply to Accra, in mid-1968.   Interconnection of the distribution
systems which would permit diversion of water from another source
is urgently required.   Extensions to the distribution network in
Accra and Tema are also required to meet demand in the newly develop-
ing areas.   Accra lacks a sewerage system at present.   The proposed
sewerage system would cover the most critical areas of Accra and could
later be expanded in stages to serve other areas.



- ii -
vi.       A principle issue arising under the project is GWSC's
financial position. GWSC's current earnings position is quite
adverse.   In order to improve the financial position and place
operations in the Accra-Tema area on a self supporting basis, the
water rates in the Accra-Tema area were increased on July 1, 1969.
Based on the new rates, the rate of return on incremental invest-
ment on the water supply facilities would be about 25%.   GWSC
also proposes to introduce a sewerage rate when the sewerage pro-
ject is brought into service and maintain the rate at a level to
cover at least the operating costs including depreciation.   A
study of the water rates in other major urban areas is in progress
and a study to recommend a program for rational utilization of
existing staff of GWSC and reducing operating costs would be com-
pleted within one year of the proposed credit.   IDA can play a
useful role in helping in the development of GWSC and in support-
ing this young organization and its management in establishing
sound policies.
vii.     Wlith the agreements reached during negotiations (see
para. 7.01) the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.5
million equivalent to the Government of Ghana.  Government would
relend the proceeds of the credit to GWSC at an interest rate of
6L4 to be repaid in 34 semi-annual installments commencing June 15,
1973.  The credit would cover about 59% of the total project cost,
equal to the estimated foreign exchange component.  The balance of
finance would be provided by GlWSC from its internal cash generation.



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ACCRA-TEMA WJATER SUPPLY AND SEZERAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana has requested a credit of US$3.5 million
equivalent from IDAtD finance the anticipated foreign exchange cost of a
project for extending the water distribution system in the Accra-Tema area
and the construction of a sewerage system for Central Accra.   The
Government would relend the proceeds of the credit to the Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation (GWfSC).
1.02      The project, estimated to cost N06.o million (US$5.9 million), is
part of a Master Plan for water supply and sewerage facilities in the
Accra-Tema area and covers the investment needs for the plan during
1970-73.  An IDA credit of US153.5 million is proposed to cover the
foreign cost component comprising about 59% of the project cost.   Local
currency costs would be financed by funds generated from internal
operations of GW4SC.
1.03      The project is based on consultants' studies of the water
supply and sewerage needs of the Accra-Tema area under a UNDP (Special
Fund) project started in 1963 wfith the World Health Organization (WHO)
as the executing agency.   The first phase of the UNDP project included
the preparation of a Master Plan for water supply and sewerage of the
area, assistance in the organization and initial functioning of a National
Water and Sewerage Authority and the training of Ghanaian staff.   The
plan of operations was extended in 1965 to include the preparation of
a feasibility study covering the first stage of construction of the
Master Plan.
1.04      The Bank's first contact wfith the project was in August 1966 when
the Bank reviewed the draft feasibility report and recommended changes
in the design and phasing of the construction of the project.
1.05      The Government of Ghana established GWSC in September 1966
and under the UNMDP (Special Fund) project management assistance was provided
to G-.JSC.  In December 1967, UNDP approved the second phase of the
project which included a leakage survey and analysis of the existing
distribution system in Accra, preparation of detailed design and
contract documents for the water supply and sewerage works covered by
the earlier feasibility study, continuing management assistance to
GW4SC and the training of staff.   The works included in the
proposed project are among the items for which detailed designs are
being prepared.
1.06      This report is based on information furnished by GIJSC, consultants'
reports and findings of a mission to Ghana in November 1968 by Messrs.
V. Rajagopalan and P.F. Lu.



- 2 -
2. WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERAGE SECTOR IN GHANlA
A. Relation to Ghanaian Economy
2.01      The area of Ghana is about 92,100 square miles, approximately
the size of the United Kingdom.   The present population of the country
is estimated at 8 million.   About 75% of the population lives in some
30,000 rural communities having less that 5,000 persons in each.   The
economy is primarily agricultural, with 60% of the labor force engaged
in agricultural pursuits.   The coast and forested areas in southern
Ghana have experienced more rapid economic advance than the north,
where subsistence agriculture predominates.   Living standards, levels
of education and life expectancy are all higher in the southern part
of the country; the major areas of dense population are likewise in
the south, where there are economic opportunities.
2.02      Due to the difficulties the country's economy experienced
from 1964 to 1966, there has been little growith in the per capita
real income during the 1960s. Only in 1967-68 growth in real dom-
estic product is noticeable.   However, during the sixties Ghana's
population has grown at an estimated 2.6% per annum.   More signifi-
cant is the growth of the urban population, due to natural increase
and migration from rural areas, especially to the large towns.   It
is estimated that between 1961 and 1967 the average annual rate of
growth of population in the Accra-Tema area was about 7%.   This is
the most urbanized area in Ghana and contains about 25% of the total
urban population.   It has a population density of about 600 persons
per square mile, whereas the national average is about 88.
2.03      The Accra-Tema area encompasses Accra town, the capital of
Ghana and its largest city and administrative center, and the town
of Tema, a planned new industrial center and Ghana's main port.
This area is the chief location of modern manufacturing industry in
Ghana, and Temna is the fastest growing industrial center in the
nation.   The Government of Ghana has given high priority to the
provision of infrastructure facilities, such as water supply and
sewerage in the metropolitan area.   In Tema, construction of new
houses in accordance with Tema's development plan is in progress.
In other parts of the metropolitan area, a number of houses are
being built by the Ghana Housing Corporation and under housing
schemes financed by the Federal Republic of Germany.   The
provision of water supply and sewerage facilities must keep pace
with these developments.
B. Present Position
2.04      It is estimated that 25% of Ghana's total population is
served by safe water supplies.   Of the 100 urban communities with a
population of more than 5,000 each, 63 including all the principal
cities and towns have piped water supplies.   Of the other communities
(about 30,000) with less than 5,000 population each, only 433 have



- 3 -
piped water supply systems; the rest depend upon wells, natural
water courses, rain water, etc.   GISC is Ghana's principal supplier
of water, operating 54 water supply systems serving 360 communities.
Local councils operate 102 small water supply systems serving 136
communities.   Various mining properties provide industrial and
domestic water for their own needs.   There are also small private
systems, operated by institutions, in various parts of Ghana.   The
existing water supply systems are shown in Map 1.
2.05      Generally, capital expenditures for construction of water
supply projects are met from development funds provided for in the
annual budget and used for projects approved by the government.   In
recent years, however, suppliers' credits amounting to about US$55.4
million have been used to finance the development of source and treat-
ment facilities for urban water supply projects and to procure water
treatment units, pipes and pumps for rural areas.   By and large this
has led to costly projects with excess capacities requiring further
investments on distribution systems in order to utilise the source and
treatment facilities created.   Economic and financial considerations
do not seem to have been considered in many of these projects.
2.o6      Several of the existing water works systems are unable to
meet the demand for water and require extensions.   In some instances,
lack of adequate maintenance has impaired normal service and improve-
ments are necessary.   Except in the main urban areas where domestic
house service connections exist, the supply is mainly through public
taps.   Average per capita consumption from public water supply sys-
tems is about 30 gped in the larger towns, about 10 gpcd in smaller
towns and about 5 gpcd in the rural areas.
2.07      Unsafe drinking water is a major cause of typhoid, dysentery,
bilharziasis and dracontiasis (Guinea Worm) in Ghana.   Recognizing
that the greatest danger is usually contamination of the source of
drinking water, and that even the simplest water supply systems can
lead to far better levels of general health, the Government of Ghana
has given high priority to this aspect of environmental health ser-
vices.   Special emphasis is being placed on the improvement of rural
water supplies.
2.08     Wlater rates are uniform throughout the country except in
the Accra-Tema area.   A general water rate based on rental value of
property and a water charge are used in some nine urban areas.   The
general water rate is collected by the local authorities and the water
charge by the GMSC.  Domestic consumers having house service connec-
tions are assessed a fixed monthly charge not based on consumption.
Industrial as well as most of the commercial connections are metered
and charged for actual consumption.   In several cases GIWSC supplies
wzater in bulk to the local authorities who distribute it through
public taps.   A part of the supply is also through mobile water
tankers maintained by GWSC.   Special rates are levied in these cases.



- 4 -
C. Existing Facilities in Accra-Tema Area
2.09      The Accra-Tema area extends for about 24 miles along the
coast and covers an area of about 120 square miles.   The area's
existing water supply is derived from two sources; the Weija Works
located some 14 miles west of Accra, using the Densu River Water, and
the Kpong W-ater Works in the northeast, using Volta River Wiater.
The Weija supply is by gravity and is intended primarily to meet the
requirements of Accra city.   The Kpong Works were developed to supply
water to Tema town and supplement the water strpply to Accra.   The
supply from Kpong Works is pumped through a 34 mile long pipeline
to a service reservoir in Tema, from which point it is distributed.
The existing facilities at Kpong have capacity to supply 32 IMgd
but utilization is only 50% at present.   Treatment facilities and
transmission mains are available for supplying about 10 Ilgd from
Wfeija Works.  However, since the failure of the Wfeija Dam in July
1968, due to heavy floods, the supply has to be drawn from the run
of the river and it may vary from 0 to 10 IMgd.  During the 1968-1969
dry season emergency measures had to be taken to maintain supply from
this source.   The reduction in supply from the Weija source is propo-
sed to be compensated by diverting surplus water from Kpong lWorks to
Accra.  The pipelines necessary for this purpose form a part of the
proposed project.   Details of existing facilities are given in
Annex l Athe locations of the water works are shown in Maps 1 and 2.
2.10      In the Accra-Tema area there are no private water supply
systems and GWSC has authority to control the development and use
of water sources in the area.  W4ater for domestic, industrial and
commercial purposes is drawn entirely from G'WSC's piped water system
in the area.
2.11      An estimated population of about 679,000 (597,000 in Accra,
82,000 in Tema) is supplied with water through 17,000 service connec-
tions (about 15,2C0 in Accra, 1,800 in Tema) and some 283 public stand-
pipes in Accra.   Approximately 50% of Accra's population derives
its supply of water from public standpipes,  whereas in Tema the supply
is through house service connections only.   Reliable statistical data
on consumption by different categories of consumers are not available.
Consultants have estimated that about 2/3 of the consumption is by
domestic users and the rest by commercial and industrial users, govern-
ment agencies and others.   Consumption has increased from about
18 gpcd to 27 gpcd in Accra and from about 36 gpcd to 60 gpcd in Tema
during the years 1961 to 1968.
2.12      At Weija and Kpong Works, for quality control, GWiSC main-
tains well equipped laboratories, supervised by qualified chemists
and biologists.   The Weija Wlorks are equipped to deal with problems
of algae control which periodicaUy arise and at Ipong Works the
treatment process is adjusted to deal with excess manganese, occa-
sionally found in the Volta River water.   In general, water of
uniformly good quality is supplied.



- 5 -
2.13      The service is continuous and normally adequate pressures
are maintained in the distribution system.   In the areas not served
by the distribution system, GWSC's mobile water tankers supply water.
In some of these areas water is also supplied by water vendors wiho
secure the water from public taps.
D. Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
2.14      The only public sewerage system in Ghana serves the city
of Tema and is operated by the Tema Development Corporation, a govern-
ment enterprise created to develop the Tema housing areas and related
facilities.   The collected sewage is treated in a primary sewage
treatment plant before disposal in the ocean.  Recently a small area
in central Accra where government offices are located (Ministries
Area) has been sewered and a small sewage treatment plant has been
installed.   In some areas septic tanks are used, but the majority
of the population, particularly in the densely populated sections,
uses bucket latrines for human wastes.   The Accra municipality
operates a waste collection and septic tank emptying service and
collects a fee for this service.   The collected wastes are discharged
into the ocean.   In many parts of Accra the waste waters from dom-
estic dwellings find their way into storm water drains and ultimately
reach the lagoons within the metropolitan area, creating offensive
conditions.
E. Development Program
2.15     Wlith the establishment of GWSC, a planning and programming
department has been organized to develop long-term plans: for water
supply and sewierage and to coordinate developments in this sector.
An expatriate planning adviser assists this department.   At present
master plans for water supply and sewerage are available only for the
Accra-Tema area (see para. 1.03) and Kumasi.   For a number of other
cities preliminary technical reports prepared by consultants in the
past are available.   Among these, GWSC has selected the urban areas
of Cape Coast, Wimneba, Koforidua, Wa, Sekondi-Takoradi and Bawku to
complete the economic and technical feasibility studies for water
supplies in these areas.   These studies are being made by a British
firm of consultants.
2.16      GWSC itself has made preliminary studies of rural water
supply needs in the country and has prepared a tentative program for
development of rural water supplies.   A two year program for provid-
ing piped water supplies to 33 communities at an estimated cost of
about N¢1.6 million (USIA.56 million equivalent) has been started and
the Government of Ghana has secured a loan of DM5.2 million from the
Federal Republic of Germany to finance the foreign exchange component
of this program.
2.17      In the Accra-Tema area, the Master Plan for water supply
and sewerage up to the year 2000 prepared under the UNDP project
(para. 1.03) proposes the construction of water supply and sewerage
facilities in stages to meet requirements.  Wiater treatment and



- 6 -
transmission facilities which were under construction when the
master plan was under preparation, were incorporated as the first
stage of the master plan for water supply.   In addition water dis-
tribution system extensions and inprovements were also included in
the first stage and some of these works have already been completed.
The next stage, construction of further distribution system extensions,
constitutes the water supply portion of the proposed project.
Thereafter, the master plan envisages the construction of a new dam
and treatment works at Weija and provision of additional transmission
and distribution mains.   Feasibility studies for these works have
been made and detailed engineering is under way. According to pres-
ent forecasts of water demand, these new facilities are not likely
to be needed until 1976.
2.18      Feasibility studies have also been made for the first
phase of the master plan for sewerage which is expected to meet
anticipated requirements in the Accra-Tema area up to 1985 and
detailed engineering is under way.   A small portion of the first
phase of the master plan for sewerage, which covers central Accra,
is included in the proposed project.
2.19      The proposed water distribution system extensions, and the
sewerage system for central Accra, constitute GWSC's water supply and
sewerage development program for 1970-1973 for the Accra-Tema area.



- 7 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The project includes water distribution system extensions
in Accra and Tema and provision of a sewerage system for certain
areas of Accra.   New mains would be provided in Accra to enable
diversion of water from Kpong supply to areas in Accra, hitherto
served entirely by the lWeija supply.   New distribution mains would
be provided to serve  developing areas around Accra.   The project
also includes provision for service connections to ensure increases
in water sales along with the expansion of the distribution network
and installation of water meters.   The extension to the main distri-
bution network in Tema wiould permit the supply of water to new hous-
ing developments and meet increases in demand from the commercial and
industrial consumers.
3.02      The proposed sewerage system would serve certain residential
localities, the main commercial and industrial section in central
Accra, government buildings and two hospitals, in an area of about
2,000 acres.   The collected sewage will be pumped into the ocean
about 4,000 feet from the coast, using an existing submarine pipe
line.   Consultants' studies indicate that treatment of sewage
is not required at this stage.   The project includes trunk and
branch sewers, pumping stations, pumps and ancillary equipment.
A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 2 and the
locations of the proposed works are shoi-m in 1Naps 2 and 3.
B. Cost Estimates
3.03      The total cost of the project is estimated to be about
N06.0  million (equivalent to about US$5.9 million).   The proposed
IDA credit of US$3.5 million equivalent or 59% of total project cost
would cover the costs of material and equipment procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding, foreign exchange component of
civil works contracts and foreign exchange costs of consultant services.
The cost estimate follows and is given in detail in Annex 3, which also
shows estimated expenditures year by year, during the construction
period.



- 8 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
NO (Thousands)            US$ (Thousands)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
'dater Supply
Pipes and accessories           -    1,515     1,515     -      1,485      1,485
Civil VWorks                 1,275    178      1,453   1,250     174       1,424
Contingencies and provision
for price increases          131    169        300     128     166         29J}
(i) Sub-Total: Water     1346  1,862       3,268   1,378   1,825      3,03
Sewerage
Trunk and Branch sewers         -      476       476             466         466
I-Imps, mechanical and
electrical equipment
and power supply              -      243       243     -        238        238
2'ivil Works                   9p0    619      1,519     882     607       1,489
Contingencies and provision
for price increases            90    133       223      88     131         219
(ii) Sub-Total: Sewerage    990  1,471      2,461     970   1,442      2,412
o,nsultant Services             58    238        296      57     233         290
Total Cost of Project     2,454  3,571      6,025   2,405   3,500       5,905
3.04       Construction costs are derived from consultants' estimates and
are based on detailed designs for some project elements and preliminary
designs for others and on current quotations for equipment and materials.
Estimated costs for the sewage pumping stations and trunk sewers include
a special contingency provision to meet subsoil wrater problems likely to
;e encountered.   An overall provision of 10% on all items for contingen-
cies and price increases has been added.   The cost of consultant services
would be mainly for supervision of construction.   These cost estimates and
the assumptions on which they are based are reasonable.   Construction of
.he project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1972.   A construc-
tion schedule is shown in Annex 4.
C. Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
3.05       The engineering and economic feasibility studies on which this
mroject is based wfere made by Tahal (W4ater Planning) Ltd., of Tel Aviv,
Israel, in association with Engineering Science, Inc., of Arcadia,
California, U.S.A. under a contract with WIHO, executing agency for the
?JNDP project mentioned in paragraph 1.03.   Under a second phase of the
JN'iDP project the same consultants have been retained by  HO to
prepare detailed engineering designs and contract documents for



certain portions of the Master Plan for water supply and sewerage in
the Accra-Tema area including the proposed project.   These consultants
are expected to be retained by GWSC to evaluate bids and supervise
construction of the project.
3.06      GWXSC's Accra-Tema area organization would be responsible
for the proposed project.   Construction is expected to be done ent-
irely by contractors, except for minor distribution system extensions
and house service connections, which will be done by GIWSC using its
own labor force.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.07      The supply and construction contracts would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines.   Local contractors capable of undertaking civil
works are available and are expected to compete effectively for these
contracts.   Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against the actual
foreign exchange cost of the imported goods and the estimated foreign
exchange component of civil works contracts.
3.06      Should there be savings in the foreign exchange costs, it
is proposed to use, after IDA's approval, the balance of the credit
for further distribution system extensions and improvements or further
consultant services, a need for which might develop in the next three
years.



- 10 -
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The Government accords a high priority to the provision of
adequate water supply to Accra and Tema, and the provision of a
sewerage system to Accra, Ghana's capital and largest city.   During
the past few years, the Government has been supporting the preparation
of a Master Plan and feasibility studies for the provision of water
supply and sewerage facilities in the metropolitan area.
4.02      WEater supply to West Accra has become precarious since the
failure in July 1968 of the Wieija Dam, the main source of supply to
the town which was supplying about 10 IMgd.   In the absence of the
dam's storage reservoir the yield from this source now depends upon
the run of the river wxhich may be negligible during the dry season.
In order to meet existing demand, it is urgent and essential to sup-
plement the water supply to Accra from Epong Water Works, which has
surplus capacity.   The diversion of surplus water from Kpong W'orks
would be accomplished by the proposed project, which fits in with the
liaster Plan for water supply in the Accra-Tema area.   The proposed
project is expected to meet the anticipated demand in the area up to
1976 according to the assumptions described below.
4.03      Population in the Accra-Tema area is estimated to have
grown at about 7% per year since 1960, wdhile the growth in water
production has averaged about 17` per year.   Whereas Tema's
present population is served by house service connections, in
Accra about 50% of the population depends on public taps for water
supply.   The distribution system does not cover many areas in Accra,
where significant housing development has taken place in recent years.
In addition, a number of new housing units are being built both in
Accra and Tema.  In order to serve the population in these areas it
is necessary to extend the distribution system as proposed under the
project.   In  these areas the supply will be through house service
connections.   In the parts of Accra presently served by public taps,
house service connections will be provided as far as possible.
Accordingly future demand projections have been made on the basis of
annual number of connections rather than on population growth.   Some
16,000 new connections are expected to be made between 1969 and 1976.
Past consumption and forecasts of demand and the basis for the projec-
tions are shown in Annex 5.
4.04      The diversion of water from Kpong Works as proposed offers
the minimum cost feasible project to meet anticipated demand.   The
main pipe sizes have been determined on the basis of comparison of
alternatives using a discount rate of 10%.



-  l -
4.05      If water sales increase in accordance with the forecast,
the incremental rate of return for the proposed project is estimated
to be about 25% (see Annex 6, page 1) on the basis of new water rates
(para. 5.18).
4.06      The proposed sewerage project in Accra would help to
improve existing insanitary conditions in central Accra, provide
safe disposal at minimum cost for waste discharges from two of the
city's main hospitals, intercept industrial wastes, and serve commer-
cial and domestic areas that can be immediately connected to the sew-
erage system.   Since subsoil conditions are not suitable for disposal
of septic tank effluents in many areas of Accra, an organized eeweraw
system is necessary.   The project would not only serve the most con-
gested part of the city having an acute problem of sewage collection
and disposal but provide the elements of a sewerage system for Accra
town which can be expanded in stages to cover other areas.
4.07      The Government of Ghana has organized the water and sewer-
age services as a Corporation (GWSC) with the ultimate goal of furnish-
ing these services throughout the country on a self-supporting basis.
GWSC is a new organization trying to develop financial and management
policies to achieve this objective.   The proposed project seeks to
improve the financial situation of the Accra-Tema area operations and
provides an opportunity to introduce a measure of financial discipline
and management improvements in GWSC as a whole and in the Accra-Tema
area organization in particular.   The project would have a significant
role in shaping the future development of GWSC and in helping to estab-
lish policies for its sound management.



- 12 -
5.  TIE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY
A. The Borrower
5.01      The Borrower would be the Government of Ghana, which would
relend the proceeds of the credit to the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC).   The project would be carried out and operated
by the Accra-Tema area organization of GWSC.
B. The Beneficiary
5.02      GWSC is a semi-autonomous agency which operates under the
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation Act of 1965.   It started func-
tioning from September 1966 when the water supplies division of the
Ministry of Works and Housing was transformed into GWSC.   It was
created as a result of a study of the water supply and sewerage
needs of Ghana by WHO consultants in 1961 and the UNDP project in 1963.
5.03      GWISC is administered by a Board of seven members including
a Ohairman and a Mianaging Director, all of whom are appointed by the
Government.   The Chairman and members of the Board, other than the
141anaging Director, hold office for a period of three years.   The
Managing Director is the chief executive office of GWSC and is
responsible to the Board for day to day administration.   The
Borrower has agreed that future appointments of the Panaging Director
of GWSC would be made in consultation writh IDA.
5.04      GWSC has been organized on the basis of recommendations
made by Public Administration Service (PAS), a U.S. firm of manage-
ment consultants provided under the UNDP project mentioned in para-
graph 1.03.   An organization chart of GISC is given in Annex 7.
GWTSC has agreed that any material change in the structure of its
organization and operations would be made in consultation with IDA.
5.05      GTIWSC has a number of qualified engineers and accountants
but lacks experience in utility management.   A team of five manage-
ment consultants in accounting, general management, technical opera-
tions, training and data processing has been provided by PAS, under
the UNDP project to assist in initial organization and functioning
of GWTSC, (see para.1.03.5). This assistance program would be completed
by the end of 1969.   GWSC has agreed that following the completion
of the management consultants' present assignment, it would take steps
to obtain the services of consultants to assist in financial control,
data processing and technical operations and has already requested
UNDP to provide such consultants.   THO has supported this request
and the consultants are expected to be provided under a next phase
of the UNDP project.   A number of feUlowships have been awarded



- 13 -
under the UNDP project for the training of Ghanaian staff abroad.
Although the management assistance and training programs are inten-
ded for GINSC as a whole, so far the emphasis has been mainly on the
Accra-Tema area.
5.06      GWSC uses the services of consultants for engineering
design and supervision of construction of all major projects.
All major works are executed through contractors.
5.07      GW,JSC has a total staff of 4,374 (240 classified as senior
staff and 4,134 including 1,141 general laborers as junior staff) of
whom 1,408 including some 300 temporary laborers are employed in the
Accra-Tema area organization.   The senior staff includes 96 engineers
and engineering assistants and 25 accountants and finance officers.
The number of personnel is much higher than needed in certain cate-
gories.   GWSC is aware of this problem but its attempts to transfer
the redundant personnel to other Government departments have not
been successful as these departments are also reported to have similar
problems.   Some of these staff will be retrained and transferred to
proposed new projects and others under construction.   Where possible,
the semi-skilled and unskilled labor will be used as departmental
labor for project construction, especially for rural water supply
projects.   GWSC has prepared a four year program for redeployment of
excess staff from Accra-Tema area which will result in a 35% reduc-
tion of staff in the Accra-Tema area during this period.   GWSC
will also take further steps to ensure that during the next five years
the total staff strength will be reduced by means of normal attrition
and transfer.
5.08      The Accra-Tema area organization is under an area manager
who is a qualified and experienced expatriate engineer.   GWSC has
agreed that the future appointments of the Accra-Tema manager would
be made in consultation with IDA.   The area manager is assisted by
16 engineers, 22 accountants and financial staff, and a number of
skilled and semi-skilled personnel.   Considerable emphasis has been
given to the training of personnel particularly at the operating
level.   A water works operators training school has been functioning
at the Weija Works for several years.   Ghanaian engineers have been
trained on the job and in the Federal Republic of Germany to operate
and maintain the new Kpong Works.   One of the PAS consultants is
also currently assisting in improving technical operations, and con-
tinuation of this technical assistance is proposed.   The area
management, assisted by its consultants, should be able to carry out
the proposed project satisfactorily.
C.   Financial Position and Earnings
Accounting
5.09      Financial records maintained by the Water Supplies Division
before the creation of GWSC were not in sufficient detail to be useful



for management purposes, or for preparation of complete financial
information.   The Water Supplies Division maintained only limited
statistical records of revenue collections and did not prepare any
financial reports.   Only the accounts of operational expenditures
were maintained on a cash basis.   Reliable historical financial
information is therefore not available.   With the setting up of
GWSC, an accrual type of accounting system has been introduced with
the assistance of consultants.   However, due to the problems
encountered in the change-over from the old to the new system of
accounting and to inadequate basic financial information, the first
consolidated financial report for GWSC, recently produced, was a
product of blended accounts partly on a cash and partly on an accrual
basis. This deficiency is recognized by the consultants and the
accounts are being refined.   Simple systems of cost accounting and
consumer accounts are also being developed.   The establishment of
these accounts will provide useful information for future management.
,.10      Accounts are maintained separately for each region, the Accra-
Tema area, central stores and the headquarters organization.   The
Accra-Tema area organization retains its revenues and functions like
a subsidiary of GWSC.  Because of the special attention given to the
area, its accounts have been better organized than the rest of the
GWSC, and are under the charge of a qualified accountant.
5.11      GWSC's Chief of Finance and some of the accountants have
been trained abroad, but they have limited experience in cost and
financial control of a water and sewerage undertaking.   The services
of a consultant are needed by GWiSC to train local personnel on the
job ini the implementation of the new accounting system and financial
control.   Such assistance is expected to be provided under the UNDP
project (see para. 5.05).
Audit
5.12      The accounts of GWSC are subject to audit by the Auditor-
General or an auditor appointed by him.  During negotiations, GWSC
agreed to have its accounts and the accounts of the Accra-Tema area
audited annually by an independent accountant or accounting firm
acceptable to IDA.
Balance Sheet
5.13      The balance sheets as at June 30, 1968, are provided
separately for GTISC and the Accra-Tema area in Annex 8, and are
summarized below:



- 15 -
Accra-Tema             Total
Area      Other    GWSC
Assets                                   - - - -  (in NO'000O) - - -
Fixed assets in service               34,598       20,520    55,118
Less: Accumulated Depreciation         5,197        5,957    11,154
Net fixed assets in service           29,401       14,563    43,964
WJork in Progress                      1,280        2,768      4,048
Net current assets                       251        5g990      6,241
Total Assets                  30,932        23,321    54,253
Equity
Government Investment                 30,932       23,321    54,253
Total                         30,932        23,321    54,253
The fixed assets shown above are based on a consultants' valuation of
the assets taken over by GWSC when it was established in September 1966
and the -value of assets acquired subsequently has been added.   The
recent audit report subrmitted to Government and GWISC in May 1969 shows a
higher figure for fixed assets.   However, the certification of the
accounts is qualified because the necessary detailed evidence for the
transfer of assets from the 1Ministry of IWorks and Housing was not
available to the auditors.   During negotiations it was agreed that
the Government and GWISC would within one year from the date of the
proposed credit establish the value of the fixed assets transferred
in a forn acceptable to IDA.  The balance sheet does not show any- long
term debt for GW.SC since the Government has not transferred debt incur-
red on past projects financed by suppliers' credits.   These credits
are for relatively short periods and the annual repaymients up to the
year 1973 are very high and beyond the financial capacity of GW4SC (see
Annex 15).   However, with the implementation of the proposed project
the financial position of GWqSC and particularly that of Accra-Tema
area is expected to improve in the coming years.   In order to build
up the financial responsibility of GWSC it was agreed that GISC should
assume an obligation to repay to the Government, at least part of the
suppliers' credits on terms compatible with its improved debt servic-
ing capability.   GW,JSC will repay an amount of NO 20.0 million to
Government over a period of 20 years at 6&% interest per annum (see
para. 6.07).   The payment of interest and principal will be subordinated



- 16 -
to other loans.   The difference between the debt assumed by G97SC and
the cost of assets transferred to GWSC will be considered as an equity
investment by the Government in GWSC.
Past Income
5.14      An income statement for the 22 months from September 1966
to June 30, 1968, has been prepared by consultants for the Accra-Tema
area, the regions and GWeSC as a whole and is summarized in Annex 9.
GtWSC's current earnings position is quite adverse.   Revenues during
the 22 months were about N0 6.0 million, equivalent to 54% of operat-
ing cost of 1g 11.1 million, including NO 2.6 million for depreciation.
Operating costs are high partly due to the large number of personnel
employed (see para. 5.07).   Secondly, outside the Accra-Tema area,
GlUSC has to maintain a number of small rural water works involving
high operating costs and very little revenue.
5.15      In the Accra-Tema area, during the same period, revenues
iwere N13.1 million, operating costs NO 2.5 million, and depreciation
N% 1.8 million.   The water rate structure, deficiencies in metering
and reliance by half the population of Accra on public taps have
resulted in bringing revenue from only 61% of the water produced by
the Accra-Tema water works.   The supply and treatment facilities have
been built far in advance of need, resulting in only about 50%
utilization of capacity, but substantial depreciation charges.   How-
ever, as indicated in paragraph 5.17 and 5.18 with the revised water
rates, adoption of a metering program, and the reduction of operating
costs by improvement in operations, the future financial picture
should substantially improve in the Accra-Tema area, where the project
is located.   Improvement is also to be expected in the other urban
centers as well as in the operations of GWSC as a whole.
D. Water Rates
5.16      Prior to 1963, in the cities, almost all water service
connections except public standpipes and fire hydrants were metered.
In 1963, the policy of metering domestic water service connections
was withdravn, and a fixed monthly charge per domestic connection
w,as introduced.   The existing water rates are shown in Annex 10.
The rate structure allows different rates for different categories
of consumers.   In addition, a general water rate of 5% on rateable
value of premises is levied.   In general, public standpipes and
rural water system users are charged the lowest rate and the commer-
cial and industrial users the highest.   Bulk water supplied by GWSC
to local authorities, is charged at a separate rate on the basis of
the volume of water suppliece.



- 17 -
5.17      The water rates are uniform throughout the country and are
not based on cost of service provided in each area.   The existing
rates are inadequate to meet even the operating costs before deprecia-
tion and interest.   A study of the water rates has not been made,
except for the Accra-Tema system.   In their feasibility study of the
Accra-Tema project, the management consultants examined the existing
rates and recommended increases in stages, commencing from 1967, with
a view to placing the operations in the area on a self-supporting
basis.   However, the Government agreed to the rate increase only
from July 1, 1969.   Under the new rates, the general rate levied
on property is abolished and the average wrater rates increased by
about 66% in the Accra-Tema area.   M4etering of domestic water
service connections would also be started.   Details of the new
rates are in Annex 10.
5.18      The revised rates increase the average water rate in the
Accra-Tema area from N¢0.38/1,000 gallons (US$0.37/1,000 gallons)
to about N00.45h/,000 gallons (US 0.44/1,000 gallons) in FY 1970,
and about N%0 .63/IQ00 gallons (US$0.62/1,000 gallons) from FY 1971
onwzards; this is high, particularly in relation to income levels
in the area.   Therefore, any further increase in water rates is
not proposed at present.   The emphasis will have to be on reduicing
costs and unaccounted-for water.   Reduction in personnel costs
and savings in cost of chemicals, etc., by improving technical
operations are possible.   A srstematic leakage survey is under
way, and a program for testing and repairing existing meters has
been started with a view to reducing the unaccounted-for water and
increasing revenues.   Consultants are assisting the Corporation on
all these matters.
5.19      Outside the Accra-Tema area GIWrSC has engaged consultants
to study water supply extension projects in 8 urban centers includ-
ing the other major cities in Ghana.   The consultants are required
to review and recommend water rate revisions in these areas in order
to make water supply in these areas financially viable.   The studies
are expected to be completed by April 1970.
5.20      In other areas, the wvater supply systems are small and
scattered, and there are a number of rural water supply systems which
depend upon Government subsidies to meet their operating costs.   An
increase in water rates in these regions does not appear practicable
at the present time.   However, with the introduction of the new
accounting system in each region, it should be possible to identify
costs of each rural water supply project and take measures to reduce
operating costs where possible.   Periodic review of the water rates
in these regions should be made with a view to making these projects
self-supporting as soon as possible.   Future investments should be
examined to avoid uneconomic projects.   To help achieve this object-
ive, GWSC's investment program in the entire country would be subject
to annual review by IDA.



- 18 -
5.21      Chan-es in water rates are initiated by GIWSC and submitted
to Government for approval.   The Government and GWSC have agreed to
establish and maintain water rates at a level sufficient to yield a
return of not less than 4% for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1970
through 1975, not less than 6% for the fiscal years ending June 30,
1976 and 1977 and not less than 8% for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1978 and thereafter on the value of net fixed assets in operation for
water supply of the Accra-Tema area.
5.22      Revenues obtained from the revised water rates are estimated
to be sufficient to yield returns mentioned in paragraph 5.21 through
FY 1977; a small rate increase will then be necessary to provide
a return of 8% or more.   Cash generated would be sufficient to cover
the local costs of the proposed project and to contribute towards the
cost of the next major program.
5.23      In addition to water rates, the customers pay a fee for
the connection to the water main, including the cost of the water
meter.   GWSC charges the actual cost incurred, plus 10% as overhead
expenses.   In the case of some housing developments, the developers
provide, at their cost, some of the distribution system.   This later
becomes the property of GWSC and is maintained by it at its own cost.
Billings and Collections
5-24      All bills are rendered monthly, except the general water
rate bills which are rendered once or twice a year.   Most bills are
delivered by messengers and only a small percentage is sent by mail.
In the Accra-Tema area, district offices have been conveniently loca-
ted for customers to pay water bills.   Upon recommendations of
management consultants, electronic data processing has been introduced
on an experimental basis.   But this operation is in its initial
stages and has not yet contributed much to efficient management.
Control over accounts receivable is poor at present.   GWSC has
powers to discontinue water service in case the customer fails to
pay his bill within 28 days from the date of rendering the bill.
However, discontinuation of service is infrequent, as some of the
customers pay their monthly fixed charge but not the general water
rate.   In some cases, discontinuation is not effective because the
defaulter is able to get his supply from the public standpipe and is
not anxious to have the reconnection made.   The collection of the
general water rate, in particular, has posed problems, and in several
cases over two years' payment is in arrears.   Outside the Accra-Tema
area, in many cases local authorities collect water rates from customers
and the transference to GWSC of the revenues collected has been slow
and uncertain.   As a result, bad debts for all the regions is estim-
ated at about 30% of billings.   In the Accra-Tema area, however, it
is estimated that bad debts would be only 5% after the abolition of
the general water rates.   In order to overcome this problem in future,
Government has agreed to recover on a quarterly basis the water revenues



- 19 -
collected by local authorities by deducting the amount from budget
grants allocated to them and to reimburse GWSC the equivalent amount.
Sewerage Rates
5.25      At present, only Tema has a limited sewerage service,
provided by the Tema Development Corporation.   No separate sewerage
charges are collected but are stated to be included in the house
rent.   In Accra, the septic tank emptying service is provided by the
municipality, for which it collects a fee.  W4hen the sewerage project
is completed and brought into service it is proposed to collect sewier-
age charges along with water rates from properties connected to the
sewerage system.   A sewerage charge related to the water consumption
is proposed rather than a levy on the property or a combination of
sewerage charge and property rate, because of the difficulties exper-
ienced by GWSC in collecting the general water rate on property val-
uations.   A sewerage charge equivalent to about 100% of the customer's
water bill will be required in the initial years.   Even with this
high charge, the sewerage revenues would barely be sufficient in the
initial years of operation to meet the operating costs including
depreciation (see Annex 11).   The Government and GWSC have agreed
to introduce sewerage charges when the sewerage project is brought
into service and maintain it at a level at least to cover operating
and administration expenses including adequate maintenance and deprec-
iation from 1974 onwards.



- 20 -
6. FUTURE FINANCES
6.01      GWSC has not prepared a development plan for projects
outside the Accra-Tema area and the future requirements of funds for
these projects are not known.  A financing plan and financial pro-
jections cannot, therefore, be prepared at this stage for GWSC's entire
operations.   A future financing plan for the program in Accra-Temna
area is in paragraph 6.02.   For the operations in this area during
1968-78, the estimated income statements are in Annex 11, the estimated
sources and applications of funds in Annex 12 and the estimated balance
sheets in Annex 13.   The assumptions made for the financial projections
are given in Annex 14.
A.   Financing Plan
6.02      The financing plan for the years of project implementation,
1970-1973, is summarized below:
Application of Funds                             NO          (US Equiv.)
Project Cost
Water                                      3',437       3,369
Sewerage                                   2,588        2,536
Sub-total                             6,025         5,905
Interest during construction                 497          487
Total Project Cost                    6,522         6,392
Second Stage Project                          2,000        1,960
Minor Extensions                                840           823
Increase in Wlorking Capital                    215           2U
Increase in Cash Balance                        125           122
Total Application                     9,702         9,508
Sources of Funds
Funds Generated from Operations               7,267         7,121
Less:  Debt Service                        1,976        1,936
Net Funds generated from Operations        5,291        5,185
Proposed IDA Financing
Iater                                      1,998         1,958
Sewerage                                   1,573        1,542
Total proposed IDA Financing          3,571         3,500
Contribution from Customers                     840           823
Total Sources                           9,702        9,508



- 21 -
6.03      The proposed credit of US$3.5 million equivalent would
cover about 37% of the water supply and sewerage development program
for 1970-1973 for the Accra-Tema area, estimated at US$9.5 million;
self-generated funds would cover the balance.
6.o4      The Government will relend to GWSC the proceeds of the
credit at an interest rate of 6W per annum, with the principal
repayable in 34 semi-annual installmeittscommencing June 15, 1973.
6.05      The financing plan is satisfactory.   The Government has
agreed to make available, or cause to be made available, all funds
necessary to complete the project.
B. Financial Projections
6.06      The estimated income statements in Annex 11 indicate that
the return on the average net fixed assets in service in the Accra-Tema
area water supply systems is expected to increase from 4.5% in 1973
to 6.1% in 1976 and to 8.1% in 1978.   These returns are based on
increase in water rates and improvements in operations discussed
in paragraph 5.18.   The sewerage operations considered separately,
would start covering operating costs including depreciation from
1974 onwards.
6.07      Cash generation from the Accra-Tema area operations is
expected to improve from N0.14 million at the end of 1968 to N02.5
million at the end of 1973, the first year after project completion,
and to N14.2 million in 1978, the last year of the projection (see
Annex 12).   Based on these projections, it is estimated that GWSC
could assume a debt of N020 million with a term of 20 years at 6jg
interest to repay part of the original amount of the credits con-
tracted by the Government for providing water supply facilities in
the Accra-Tema area.   The projections assume payment of interest
and principal commencing in  1973.   It is also assumed that for
the next stage water project expected to be constructed during
1973-1976 at an estimated cost of N¢97 million, the estimated foreign
exchange component equivalent to N¢3.5 million would be borrowed at
6i% interest per annum for 20 years with a grace period of 3 years.
Extension of the sewerage project to serve additional areas of the
city can be made gradually, depending on need.   The financial pro-
jections include an investment of N¢0.5 million during 1976 and
01l.0 million each during 1977 and 1978 for sewerage extensions which
would be met entirely from internal cash generation.
6.08      The projections show a debt service coverage of 1.2 in
1973 increasing to 1.7 in 1978, for total debt including the proposed
N020 million transferred debt.   Although the debt service coverage
projected is low in 1973 and 1974, the repayment of the transferred
debt will be subordinated to other loans (paragraph 5.13).   If the
transferred debt is not considered, the debt service coverage would
be high at over 5 during the years 1973 to 1978.   Debt as a percentage



- 22 -
of total capital, will decline from 67% in 1970, to 56% in 1978 (see
Annex 13).
6.og      During negotiations, GWISC agreed to a covenant limiting in-
currence of additional long-term debt unless net revenues from the pre-
vious year cover the total of debt service on existing and proposed
debts at least 1.5 times. For purposes of this test, the subsidy re-
ceived by GWSC from Government and the debt service on the Government
debt would not be taken into account.



- 23 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING Ni30TIATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the follow-
ing principal points:
(a)  Future appointments of the Managing Director of GWSC
and the Area Manager for Accra-Tema will be made in
consultation with IDA (paragraphs 5.03 and 5.08);
(b) Any material change in the structure of GWSC organiza-
tion and its operations will be made in consultation
with IDA (paragraph 5.04);
(c)  GWSC will take steps to obtain the services of con-
sultants to assist in financial control, technical
operations and data processing (paragraph 5.05);
(d)  GWSC will take all.reasonable action to reduce by
means of normal attrition and transfer, the number of
erployees of GWSC; existing personnel will be trained an
and used for operation of new projects and to the extent
feasible on the construction of new projects, (paragraph
5.07);
(e)  GWSC will have its accounts and the accounts of the
Accra-Tema area audited annually by an independent
accountant or accounting firm acceptable to IDA
(paragraph 5.12);
(f)  GWSC will repay NZ20 million to Government of Ghana
at 6i% interest per annum in 34 semi-annual installments
comnencing in June 1973 (paragraph 5.13 and 6.07);
(g) GWSC's overall investment program will be subject to
annual review by IDA (paragraph 5.20);
(h) Water rates in Accra-Tema will be maintained at a level
sufficient to provide revenues representing a return on
net fixed water supply assets in service in the area of
not less than 4.0% for the fiscal years ending June 30,
1973 through 1975, not less than 6% for the fiscal years
ending June 30, 1976 and 1977 and not less than 8% for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1978 and thereafter
(paragraph 5.21);
i)  Where local authorities fail to pay GWSC for the water
supplied to the relevant area, the Government will
arrange to reimburse GWSC the equivalent amount (paragraph
5.24);



- 24 -
tj)  Sewerage charges will be introduced when the sewerage
project is brought into service, and maintained at a
level to cover from 1974 onwards the operating costs
including adequate maintenance and depreciation
(paragraph 5.25)j
(k) GWSC will not incur long-term debt unless net revenues
from the previous year cover amaximum future debt service
on existing and proposed debts at least 1.5 times
(paragraph 6.09).
July 18, 1969



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3pagee
GHANA - ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
in the Metropolitan Area
General
The existing water supply system serving the Accra-Tema Area
is from two sources: the Densu River in the west and the Volta River
in the northeast. The water works are located at Weija and Kpong,
respectively.
Weija Water Works
The Weija Water Works treats the Densu River water, and the
first treatment units were built in 1914 to supply the town of Accra.
Original capacity was 0.5 IMgd, which has been increased in stages to
13.8 IMgd. The supply of raw water to the treatment works was assured
during dry years by an impounding reservoir formed by a low dam on the
Densu River at Weija built by the PWD in 1959. Following heavy rains
and consequent floods in the river, the dam failed in July 1968 and
there is no storage of raw water at present. Construction of a rock
barrage as an inmmediate measure to assure supply during summer months
is under consideration. As a long-term measure, the construction of a
bigger dam to supply 30-50 Il4gd from this source has been included under
the Master Plan.
Some of the treatment units built in 1914 (lime reservoirs,
slow sand filters, etc.) have since been retired from service; a treat-
ment plant constructed in 1934 (4.5 IMgd capacity) and another plant
built recently 1964-66 (4.2 IMgd capacity) are now in service. These
are rapid sand filter plants with coagulation and settling units.
Copper sulphate, alum, lime and chlorine gas are used at various stages
in the treatment process. The chemical treatment is not adequately
controlled and the rate of filtration is very low. Consultants are
assisting the Accra-Tema area organization in rationalizing the treat-
ment process and increasing output from these plants. It is expected
that 10 to 12 IMgd treatment capacity could be developed with existing
facilities.
Raw water pumps provided under the various stages of development
have a total capacity of about 11 IMgd. Clear water reservoirs with a
total capacity of 3 IMg are also available at the treatment works, and
four transmission mains (12", 14", 16" and 21") deliver water by gravity
from the Weija Water Wforks to Accra. These mains have a total carrying
capacity of 10 IMgd; in order to increase their capacity to 13 IMgd, a
booster station has been located six miles from Weija at Odorkor,
enroute to Accra.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
Kpong Water Works
Old Kpong Works
Raw water from Volta River is pumped into an adjacent treatment
works located in Kpong Village. The original treatment works were built
in 1954 with a capacity of 1.5 IMgd. Additional treatment units were
added to increase the capacity by 6 IMgd by mid-1960. A 21" transmission
main, laid in 1958-59, delivered water from Kpong Works to the Tema
terminal reservoirs of 3.25 Img capacity. These treatment units and the
transmission main are not used now; their future use to meet water supply
requirements outside the metropolitan area, is under consideration.
Stepri Works
Opposite the old Kpong works a new 32 IMgd treatment plant was
completed during 1966-67, these works, called 'Stepri Works', now provide
the supply. The 'Stepri Works' include 50 IMgd rawwater intake 34 Lgd DtL pur-$
40 IMgd coagulation and settling tanks, 32 DIgd rapid sand filters, a 42"
diameter steel main for 34 miles to convey 32 IMgd to a 10 1Kg Tema
terminal reservoir, a 32" diameter steel main for 14 miles between the
Tema terminal reservoir and a 10 IKg Accra terminal reservoir, and
necessary pumps to pump 32 IMgd frori Xpong to T-nr, end 18 iLgd fromi
iX;r -0o .ccr .     modern plant control laboratory has also been provided.
Distribution System
Under the Master Plan, the distribution system in Accra has been
divided into low, high and medium pressure zones. The low pressure zone
covers the major part of Accra, including all the coastal strip, and the
principal shopping centers and markets. Domestic supply in this zone is
mostly through public standpipes, the ground levels vary between 20' to
60' above sea level except for certain enclaves. This low pressure zone
is supplied by the Weija Service Reservoir and the Accra terminal reservoir.
A 6 IKg reservoir at a location called 'MVIile 4' is also in this system.
The medium pressure zone covers the airport area and residential localities
at elevations 1001 to 200' above sea level. A booster station situated
near the Accra terminal reservoir pumps water directly into the distri-
bution system and into a 2 IMg storage reservoir which controls the
pressure in this medium pressure zone. This area comprises some better
type of housing developments, military camps, etc., and water supply is
mostly through house service connections. The high pressure zone includes
the Legon University area and the highest areas in Accra, where ground
levels vary from 200t to 400' above sea level. The high pressure zone has
only better type houses. The Accra booster station delivers water into a
2 IMg reservoir in this zone also from which water is distributed. In
Tema, the distribution system has been designed to fit in with Tema's



ANNE 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
develepment plan which indicates the housing and industrial zones. The
distribution system for these zones has been designed for a residual
head of 90' during peak hours in the main distribution grid and the
reticulation system to meet maximum daily demand and to satisfy fire
fighting requirements.
Investments in Plant and Equipment
Major investments in plant and equipment for water treatment,
transmission and pumping facilities du&ing the past ten years have been
financed by suppliers' credits of about US$39 million. Details of invest-
ments made in the past on distribution systems in the area are not
available.
Sewerage
Accra:
Accra city does not have a sewerage system; however three small
sewerage systems serve certain institutions. Korle BE Hospital has its
own sewerage system and a small treatment plant which discharges effluent
into Korle Lagoon. Considerable extensions to the hospital have been made
and the existing sewerage system is no longer adequate for the hospitals'
needs. A sewerage scheme has recently been constructed to serve the
southern part of the Rinistries' Area and an extended aeration plant has
been provided to treat the sewage prior to disposal into the sea. Legon
University has its own small sewerage system. Septic tanks or bucket
latrines are used in other parts of Accra.
Tema:
The sewerage scheme, completed in 1960, provides for the collection
of sewage from the inhabited areas and pumping to a detention pond located
near Gao Lagoon to the east of Tema town. From the lagoon sewage is dis-
charged into the sea through a mile-long submarine outfall. The sewerage
system is maintained by the Tema Development Council, and extensions to the
system are currently being carried out. At present, Tema sewerage system
does not come under the preview of GWSC.
February 3, 1969



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA  - ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Detailed Description of Proposed Project
Water Supply
Sources
The proposed project would utilize water from existing water
treatment plants at Kpong and Weija.
Accra Distribution System Extensions
A 21" main is proposed to be laid, connecting the existing 32"
main from Accra-Terminal Reservoir in order to be able to divert water to
Western Accra and maintain minimum pressure in the system, whenever the
supply from Weija is not adequate to meet demand in that area. In addition,
a number of mains, as shown in Map 2, are to be laid to improve supplies to
existing areas and to extend the distribution system to new areas. Approxi-
mately 28 miles of 10" to 21" diameter pipes would be used in the main
distribution grid. The secondary and tertiary distribution grid extensions
proposed would comprise about 54 miles of 4" to 8" pipes.
The project also includes provision for purchase of water
meters and material required for consumer connections up to end of 1972.
Tema Distribution System Extensions
In Tema, only extensions to the main distribution grid are
included in the project, as the secondary and tertiary grids are provided
by the Tema Development Council. Approximately 6i miles of 1O0"-211" pipes
are included in the project.
The distribution system extensions included in the project are
based on each area's specific needs and the physical limitations in extend-
ing mains to newly developing areas. It is expected that with the completicn
of the distribution system extensions, as proposed, the available supply of
water from existing treatment plants would be fully utilized by 1976.
Sewerage
The sewerage scheme would serve certain residential areas, East
and West Ridge, Ussher Town, James Town, the Ministries Area, and the main
shopping and commercial areas of downtown Accra. A pumping station will be
built at Korle Bu Hospital to pump the collected sewage from the hospital
through a pumping main laid along the existing bridge across the Korle
Lagoon into the main interceptor. The sewage and waste waters from a
brewery north of Korle Lagoon would be collected, using an existing sewer
of the factory, and would be discharged into the intercepting sewer. The
intercepting sewer would not only collect sewage flows from the branch sewers



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
but would also intercept surface drainage all along its route. Specially
designed connections between the surface drains and the sewer would be made
to collect dry weather flows but exclude storm flows. From the east side
the collected sewage would be pumped to the intercepting sewer by a pumping
station at High Street.  The human wastes collected from other areas will
also be dumped into the sewers at convenient locations or at the pumping
stations and necessary arrangements for this purpose would be made.
At the end of the intercepting sewer a main pumping station would
be built to pump the collected sewage into the ocean without any purifi-
cation. The site for this pumping station is under investigation. The
structure of the pumping station would be designed for requirements in 1985,
when a peak sewage flow of 20 IMgd is expected at this station. Pumps will
be provided, however, only for a peak flow of 10 IMgd, which is the capacity
of the ocean outfall sewer.
For the ocean outfall sewer, an existing 12" submarine pipeline
would be used.  This pipeline, originally laid by Mobil Ghana Ltd. for
pumping oil from the tankers to their shore installations, has for some yetxs
been out of service. It is understood that the company has agreed to donate
this pipeline to GWSC, and therefore, its cost is not  included in the
project. The pipeline has been examined by the consultants and found to be
in good condition. The pipeline extends over 12,000 feet into the ocean.
It is proposed to be cut and pulled back in order to have three ocean
outfall pipelines of 4,000 feet each, which are required to dispose the
peak sewage discharges of 10 IMgd.
The intercepting sewer would be of 39g diameter pipeline. The
branch and lateral sewers would be of varying diameters. The total lengths
of all sewers to be laid under the project would be about 20 miles.
February 3, 1969



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATTON - ACCRA-Ta}A AREA
Cost Estimates of Proposed Project
------------- Local Costs --------------            ----------- Foreign Exchange ------------
---------------------------------------- NZ'000  -------------------------------------------------
Year Ending June 30                      1970.-  1971.   1972    1973    Sub-Total            1970    1971    1972    1973    Sub-Total    Total
Water Supply
Accra main distribution grid            165      165      52       -          382            400     400   .100 -                  900,    -1,:?82
Accra secondary distribution grid       180      180       90      56         5o6            200     200      100       54         554      1,060
Consumer connections and water
meters                                 50      100     100       50         300             10      20       20       10         60          360
Tema main distribution grid              20       60       7       _87                        40     139       _        -         179          266
Sub Total:  Water                     415      505     249      106      1,275            650      759      220       64      1,693       2,968
Central Accra Sewerage
Trunk sewers,
Branch sewers,
Connections and
pumping mains                           100      470     100       _          670            250     515       87       -           852      1,522
Pumping stations                         45      102      16       -          163             50       96      17       -           163        326
Pumps and accessories                    -        -        -       -           -              -       160      20       -           180        180
Power supply                             _        24        3      -           27             -        57       6       -            63         90
Submarine outfall and
pressure chamber                       _        36       4       _           40             -        72       8       -            80        120
Sub-Total:  Sewerage                  145      632     123       -          900            300      900     138       -         1,338      2,233
Contingencies and provision
for price increases                    56      113      38       14         221             95     165       36        6          302        523
Consultant services                      14       3')       9       5          58             65     117       26       30          238        296
Total                               630   1,230      41D      125      2,454           1,ll0   1,941      420      100        3,571      6,025



GHANA: ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1969                       1970                             1971                            1972
M ITEAMSONID                 A M J J A S O!NiD J              F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O  N D
SUPPLY  ITEMS 
WATER PIPES, METERS          I ,
AND ACCESSORIES
SE WER PlIPE S r r
AND ACCESSORIES
SEWAGE PUMPS
AND ACCESSORIES
CONSTRUCTION 
WATER DISTRIBUTION    ,                                                        . L I  _
SYSTEM                                        7, -   1  :7MF                                                1 
SEWERS AND SEWA                                         - z
PUMPING STATIONS                                         I
_ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I                                                     _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I     I i
DESIGN AND                      INVITATION TO TENDER                                       SPLY AND ERECTION 
PREARAORYWORK                                          PLACING OF CONTRACT           OR_ COSRCTOIBRD -4451 



,nnex 5
Page  ' of 2, pag5s
GIIN.AH : ACCRA-TRIk WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERP-.GE PROECT
PFpulation and Water Consumption Statistics and Projections
Percentage in-
Water Conumtion           crease in con-
Daily     Per     sumption over  Number of
Population  Annual  Average  Capita   previous year   Connections
---- IMg -----    gpd
1961  *A   394,000   2,640      7.25     18           -
**T    29,000     385     1.05      36           -
1962   A   410,000   2,931     8.05      20           11%            -
T    34,000     525     1.l4      43           37%           -
1963   A   430,000   3,120      8.55     20            6%            -
T    40,000     851     2.33      43           62%           -
1964   A   460,000   3,440      9.45     21           11%            -
T    48,oo0    940      2.58      54           11%           -
1965   A   500,000   4,129    11.30      23           20%            -
T    56,ooo   1,450      4.00     71           55%           -
1966   A   530,000   5,400    14.80      28           31%            -
T    64,ooo   1,530     4.20                    5%           -
1967   A   562,000   5,708    15.64      28           57%          13,1482
T    73,000   1,770     4.85      IA           15%          1,479
1968   A   597,000)           16.00      27            2%          15,533
T    82,000)  7,500     5.00      60            3%          1,776
* Accra: **Tema
Note:
(i) The population figures shown above are mid-year estimates made
by consultants, assuming an average growth rate of 7% per annum
for the metropolitan area. No census or sample survey of the
population of the area has been carried out since 1960.
(ii) W4ater consumption figures showvn are production figures as records
of actual consumption are not available . Consultants estimate
that about 50% of Accra's population depends on public standpipe
supply. Actual consumption from these standpipes is not known.
Actual consumption by other categories of consumers is also not
known in Accra. From a revenue point of view it is estimated
by consultants that only about 60% of water produced is sold.
Probably about 15 to 20% is tik physical loss.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii) The present domestic supply is not on a metered basis,
and the variation in demand, when metering is introduced,
cannot be determined from past experience.
(iv) In the light of existing circumstances in the metropolitan
area, immediate future requirements for water have been
projected in this report on the basis of number of con-
nections rather than on population growth. This is con-
sidered to be a realistic approach. Between 1969 and
1976 it is assumed that nearly 16,000 new connections
would be made (see Annex 14) and on this basis the avail-
able water supply facilities are expected to be fully
utilized by 1976. The projections assume an average
consumption of 15000 gallons per month per connection.
February 3, 1969



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION -- ACCRA-T12A AREA
Incremental Return on Proposed Water Supply Project
Y-hr Ending June 30                                                 1971           1972             1973           1974            1975            1976            1977        1978
Incremental Water Production (IMg)                                   590          1,060            1,960          2,510          3,270            3,930           4,780       5,460
Incremental Water Sales (1Mg)                                        360            740            1,300          1,750           2,230           2,770           3,310       2,890
Attributable to Project:
Incremental Revenue (N¢ 'OOOs)                                  181            373              655            882          1,124            1,396           1,668       1,721
Incremental Costs (NO 'OOOs)                                     41             78              119            144             199             247             306         306
Incremental Cash Flow (N¢ 'OOOs)                                14o            295              536            738             925           1,149           1,362       1,415
Project Cost             Cash        Net Cash          Discount       Present         Discount        Present
Flow          Flow            Factor          Worth          Factor           Worth
----------------------- NO '000s-------------------       26%         NO 'ooos           25%         NO 'ooos
Y-'r Ending June 30
1970                                          1,227                               (1,227)          1.000          (1,227)         1.000           (1,227)
1971                                          1,449                  140          (1,309)           .794         (1,039)           .800           (1,047)
197'                                            536                  295            (241)           .630            (152)          .640             (154)
1973                                            225                  536            311             .500            156            .512              159
1974                                                                 738             738            .397            293            .410              303
1975                                                                 925             925            .315            291            .328              303
1976                                                               1,149          1,149             .250            287            .262              301
1977                                                               1,362          1,362             .199            271            .210              286
1978                                                               1,415          1,415             .158                          :.168
1979                                                                                                .125                           .134
1980                                                                                                .100                           .107
1981                                                                                                .079                           .086
198                                                                                                 .063                           . o69
1983                                                                                                 050                            055
1984                                                                                                .o4o                           .044
1985                                                                                                .031          1,061            .035            1,159
1986                                                                                                .023                           .028
1987                                                                                                .020                           .022
1988                                                                                                .016                           .018
1989                                                                                                .012                           .014
1990                                                                                                .010                           .012
1991                                                                                                .008                           .009
199,                                                                                                .o06                           .007                                                         Id
1993                                                                                                .oo5                           .oo6
1994                                                               1,415           1,415            .oo4                           .005
(59)                             83
Incremental return is, therefore, between 25% and 26%.



hinnex 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
Notes on Incremental Returns on Proposed Project
1.      Existing sources, treatment and transmission facilities will be
utilized to bring the additional amounts of water under the
project. The cost of the existing facilities has not been
included in the project cost.
2.      It is assumed that 20% of the incremental water sales would be
attributable to the natural growth in the areas covered by the
existing distribution system, and 80% would be due to the pro-
posed project. Therefore, 80% incremental revenue has been
assumed in the calculations.
3.      The retail water sales assume unaccounted-for water decreasing
from 39% in 1969 to 36% in 1977.
4.      Incremental revenues have been calculated assuming an average
rate of N00.45 per 1000 gallons in 1970, and a rate of NO0.63
per 1000 gallons thereafter.
5.      Incremental costs have been taken at 80% of the annual increase
in costs which are attributable to the proposed project.
July 18, 1969



ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
STAFF SERVICES                       PROGRAMMING                         DEPARTMENT                         DEPARTMENT                           DEPARTMENT                          DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT
Reports, Orgonization               Engineering Services               Design Division                    Operations ond                       Personnel Division                  Accounts Division
and Methods                         Office Services                    Projects Division                  Mointencnce Division                 Central Services Division           Audit Division
Library    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~Rua   atrDviinPlant and Equipment                                                   and Central aind
LegalServices                                                          Rural Water Division               Divisiont ondE   eRegional Stores                                        Revenue Division
Public Relations                                                       Orilling Section                   Workshops                            Training Division                   Budget Division
Office Services                    Office Services                     Office Services                     Data Processing Division
Securiny and InvestigatIons                                                                                                                                                        Office Services
Office Services
R      E                                            F           A                EQUIMEN              ACCERA -rEMA
l                       ~~~~~ME7ROPOL IAN AREA
UPPER   NORTERN  X J  VOLA    <        | CENRAL  | | WETERN  | | AHANTI  |                      |AREA MANAGER 
IOFFICER  IIOFFICER   IIOFFICER   IIENGINEER                     IENGINEER  IIENGINEER  IIENGINEER  IIENGINEERI
z
z
IBRD-4236 D
-J



GHANI WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATI*
Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1968
- - - - -                  - Unitt NO %000 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Accra-Tema                    Head        Central       Work        Totaly'
Area          Regions       Office      Stores        Shop       GWsC
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                       732           393         3,O014      3,188          42         7,369
Accounts Receivable                        728            872         -             383         60         2,043
Advances                                   -                1        2,532          -          _           2,533
Inventories                                664           350           -          3,906         29         4,949
Totajl Current Assets                 2,124         1,616         5,546       7,477         131        16,894
Fixed Assets
Plant & Equipmunt                       33,862        12,628         1,122         n.a.      1,365        48,977
Less:  Depreciation                    5,197         5,009           134         n.a.        814        U,154
Net Plant & Equipment                 28,665         7,619           988        nsa.         551        37,823
Land                                       736         5,345            60         n-.a.       -           6,141
Work-in-Progress                         1,280          2,686            3         n.a.         79         4.048
Total Fixed Assets                   30,681        15,650         1,051         n.a.        630        48,012
TOTAL ASSETS                    32M0          17,266         6,597       7,477         761        64,906
LIABILImES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                           386            364          800        2,034        -           3,584
Customers' Advances                      1,487          2.896        2.552          -          134         7.069
Total Current Iabilities              1,873         3,260         3,352       2,034         134        10,653
Equity
Government Investment                   30,932        14,oo6         3,245        5.443        627        54,253     X
TOTAL EQJITY AND LIABIITIES            32 ,805       17 266         6,597        7477         761        64,906
1/ Adjusted by appraisal mission by adding the assets and liabilities of Work Shop.
February 3, 1969



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Income Statement For the Period
Sep-tember L1966 to June 30,1968
- - -Unit: NO '0OO - - - - - '                           -- -   - - - - -
Accra-Tema                    Head         Central       Work        Total-
Area          Regions       Office       Stores        Shop         GWSC
Revenues
Water Billings                           3,015           2,351           -           -             -        5,366
Less:, Provision for Bad Debts          (103)           (124)         _            -             -         (227)
Revenue From Stores                        -               --                      291             -          291
Other Revenues                             218            23-                                      96 5-8
Total Revenues                  3,130           2,461           -          291            96       5,978
Operating Costs
(1)  Personnel                          1,054           2,144          815         128            105      4,246
(2)  Electricity                          547             282           16           -              1        846
(3)  Chemicals                             496            416           -            -             -          912
(4)  Fuel and Lubrications                163             519           64          23              7        776
(5) Maintenance                             32             71           39           -              1        143
(6)  Repair Parts                          106            296          142           -             44        588
(7)  Transportation                         26            275          181         256             -          738
(8)  Office Supplies                        33             23           70           -              1        127
(9)  Service Connections                    21             13           -            -             -           34
(10)  Others                                 33          - 31            23          70             11         168
Total Costs                     2,511           4,070        1,350         477            170      8,578
Income (Deficit) Before Depreciation         619          (1,609)     (1,350)       (186)           (74)    (2,600) i
Depreciation                               1,768             699           66          -             30       2,563
Operating Income                          (1,149)         (2,308)     (1,416)       (186)          (104)    (5,163)
Interest Expenses (Income)                                                 -         (14)            -          (14)   w
Net Income (Loss)                         (1,149)         (2,308)      (1,416)      (172)          (10i1)    (5,149)
1/  Adjusted by appraisal mission by adding Work Shop Revenues and Co.,ts.
February 3, 1969



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA: ACCRA- TEI4A WATER SJPPLY AND SETEREGE PROJECT
Schedule of Water Rates - Existing and Proposed
A.   ScheduLle of Existing Water Rates and Fees throughout the country.
I. Water Rates
1. Domestic
Flat Rate: N02.00 per month per flat of family unit.
M4etered Rate: N00.25 per 1,000 gallons with a minimum
charge of N02.00
2. Commercial, Industrial and Institutional
All metered at NO0.10 per 1,OOO gallons with a minimum
charge of N102.00.
3. Shiping
N¢0.55 per 1,000 gallons.
h. Special Rate
Occupants of government housing estates and police are
paying N e0.25, NZO.50 or N01.00 per family per month,
depending on their level of salary.
5. General Rate
7b of annual rateable value (rental) of property with a
minimum charge of N$1.20 per family per year. This is
collected twice a year, (sometimes only once), not only-
from the people obtaining their water from public stand-
pipes, but also from people who pay either by flat rate
or metered rate for their water consumption through
their private house connections.
6. Categorical Rate
N01.20 to N¢24.00 per house per year.
Applicable to properties outside city areas.
7. Portable Water iRate
Some suburban areas are supplied water by mobile water
tanks at N0O.25 per 1,000 gallons plus transportation
charges.
All water charges except general rate are billed monthly.
The water charges and general rate are collected by GWSC
in most of the urban areas and by local councils elsewhere.



4rxex 10
Page 2 of 2 pages
II. Connection Fees
Connection fees are billed at actual cost of making
the connection plus 10% overhead.
III. Re-Connection Fees
NO 4.00 per connection
B.  Schedule of New Water Rates in Accra-Tema Area
From July 1, 1969
1.  Domestic consumption from public taps with no house connec-
tions - Annual fixed charge of NO 6.00 per house not metered
but depending on public stand pipe.
2.  Domestic consumption with house connections - 40 new pesewas
per 1,C00 gallons with minimum charge of NO 3.00 per month
3.  Non-domestic consumption - A rate which is the aggregate of:
(a) the general water rate calculated at 5% of the rateable
value of the rateable premises; and (b) 60 new pesewas per
1,000 gallons with minimum charge of N05.00 per month; and
(c) a reducing sliding scale thereafter for maximum demand
in excess of 1/2 million gallons per day - 60 new pesewas for
1,000 gallons; (ii) next 1/2 to 3/4 million gallons per day -
55 new pesewas per 1,000 gallons; (iii) 3/4 to 1 million
gallons per day - 50 new pesewas per 1,000.
From January 1, 1970
The general water rate relating to non domestic consumers will be
abolished and the appropriate rates specified for the non domestic
consumers will be increased by 50%.



GHANA WATTER AND SEWERAOE CORPORATION - ACCRA-TEIIA AREA
ENtitated Income Statements
-------- Project Construction---------
Year Ending J-ne 30                                1969-   1969      1970    1971    1972      ------- 1973 --------       ------- 1974 -------        ------- 1975 -1----         ------- 1976 --------       ------- 1977 --------       ------- 1978 --------
Water   Water    Water   Water  Water        Water   Sewer   Total       Water   Sewer   Total       Water   Sewer   Total       Water   Sewer   Total       Water   Sawer   Total       Water   Sewer   Total
Water Productton (I4v)                            7,500   7,900    8,4990   9,080   9,550    10,450                       11,000                      11,760                      12,420                      13,270                       13,950
Ran-Revenue Water (IM8)                          2,950   3,080    3,310   3,540   3,630        3,970                       4,070                       4,350                       4,470                       4,780                        4,880
Water Sales (l]g)                                 4,550   4,870    5,180   5,540   5,920       6,40d                       6,930                       7,410                       7,950                       8,490                        9,070
r, Water Sold to Water Produced                    61%      618       61%     61%     62%        62%                         63%                         63%                         64%                         64%                          65%
Average Water Rate per 1000 gallons (NO)            .38     .40       .45     .63      .63       .63                         .63                         .63                         .63                         .63                           .65
------------------------------------------------------  Unit:  In  Thousands  Of  New  Cedis ________________-__ 
Revenues:  Billings                              1,715   1,930    2,330   3,490   3,730        4.082      153   4,235      4,366     181   4,547      4,668    211    4,879       5 008    246    5,254       5,349    279    5,628        5 896   326    6,222
Less:  Provision far Bad Debts          (61)    (96)    (116)   (175)   (187)        (204)      (8)   (212)      (218)   (10)   (228)        (233)   (11)    (244)       (250)   (12)    (262)       (267)   (14)    (281)        (295)  (16)    (311)
Other Revenues                          135      134      163      244     261        286       11     297        306     13      319        326      15       341       350      17       367        374     20       394         413    23       436
TOTAL                               1.789   1968    2.377   3.559   3.804                   156   4.320      4.454    1814   4.638       4.761    215    4,976       5.108    251    5359                  28                  6.014   333J 
Operating Coste:
Personnel                               600      780      780      780     780        755       25     780        740     40      780         740     40       780        740     40       780        740     40       780         740    40       780
Electricity                             286      300      322      345     363        397       40     437        418     42      460        447      45       492        472     47       519        504     50       554         530    53       583
T,hemica le                              -      253       272      29      306        3311      -      3311       352     -       352        376      -        376       397      -        3917      1125     -        1125        1116    -       4416
Puel & Lubricants                        -        58       62       66      70         76        8      814        80      8       88          86      9        95         91      9       100         97     10       107         102    10       112
Maintenance                              12       34       33       34      36         34        3      37         35      3       38          36      3        39         37      3        40         38       3       41          38      4       42
Repair Parts                             -        31       30       31      33         31        3      34         32      3       35          33      3        36         34      3        37         35       3       38          34      4       38
Transportation and Other                 26       49       51       54      57         59        6      65         63      6       69          66      7        73         69      7        76         72      7        79          76      8       84
Office Supplies                          -        14       15       15      16         17        2      19         18      2       20          19      2        21         20      2        22         21       2       23          22      2        24
Service Cosnections                        2/    11        15       15      15         23        2      25         18      2       20          20      2        22         22      2        24         22       2       24          23      2        25
Others                                  21-       20       21       22      23         24        2      26         25      3       28          27      3        30         28      3        31         29       3       32          31      3       34
TOTAL                               1.1105   1.50                       .699      1.750       91   1.841      1.       109   1.890 1      .850    114    16          1.910    116    2.           1.983    120    2.103        2.042   126    2.168
Income Before Depreciation                          384    418        776   1,907   2,105      2,141       65   2,479      2,673      75   2,748       2,911    101    3,012       3,198    135    3,333       3,473    165    3,638        3,972   207    4,179
Depreniation                                        970     992    1,005   1,041   1,118       1,101       66   1,167      1,151      70   1,221       1,209      70    1,279      1,260      70    1,330      1,308      79    1,387       1,327   100    1,427
Operating Inncm  (after Depreciation)              (586)   (574)    (229)    866       987     1,313       (1)  1,312      1,522       5   1,527       1,702      31    1,733      1,938      65    2,003      2,165      86    2,251        2,645   107    2,752
Interet                                              -       -         36     135      211     1,4120     102   1,522      1,4150     99   1,5419      1,500O    96    1 596       1 508      92    1 6oo      1,4184     88    1,572       1,1128   811    1,512
Less,  Intereat Capitalized                       -        -       (36)   (135)   (211)        (64)    (51)  (115)         (65)    -       (65)       t154)    -       i54)    1t203)    -         t203)       -       -        -           -       -       -
Interest Charged to Revenue                               -         -      -        -       1,356       51   1,407      1,385      99   1,484       1,346      96    1,442      1,305      92    1,397      1,484      88    1,572        1,428    84    1,512
Income After Decreniatio. & Intereot               (586)   (571)    (229)    866       987        (43)    (52)    (95)       137    (94)      43         356    (65)      291        633    (27)       606       681      (2)      679       1,217    23    1,240
Return on Net Plant in Service-2/                    -       -         -      3.0%    3.3%        4.5%     -       4.2%       5.1%   .02%    4.7%        5.5%   1.2%       5.2%      6.1%   2.6%       5.8%       6.7%   3.3%      6.4%        8.1%  3.4%      7.7%
1/ Figuoes of thin year ohould be actual, but due to the change-over of accounting system,
accurate actual figures are not available. These are still estimates.
2/ Total for Chemicals, Puel, Repair Parts and Supplies
3/ Operating Income to Averare Net Plant in Service
1A



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION -- ACCRA-TEMA AREA
astimated Sources ard ApDlicatian o0 Punds
Year Ending June 30                                          1968.       _2            1970        1971         1972        1973         1974         1975         1976         9177          8
____--____________---_---------------------------------Nj;m---------------------------------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Income before Depreciation and Interest                       384         418           776       1,907        2,105       2,479        2,748        3,012       3,333         3,638      4,179
Customers' Contribution                                                   200           200         200          220          220         220          250          250          250        270
Proceeds from Proposed IIA Credit:
Fbr Water Project                                                                 760         880          258         100
For Sewerage Project                                                              350       1061          162           -
Total IDA Credit                                                           1,110        1,941420                  lO0
Future Borrowings for Second Stage Project                                                                                              2 000          750         750
TOTAL SOURCES3 _                                                        Z     'O7 4,96 127959   4 ____,_                                                _3_          33 3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project Cost:  Water                                                                  1,227       1,449          536          225
Sewerage                                                               513        1;772         303           -
Total Project Cost                                                            1,740       3,221          s39       _2
Second Stage Project Cost
Water                                                                                                      2,000        2,000       1,500        1,500
Sewerage                                                                                                                                           500         1,000     1,000
Minor Ecten sions                                            100           200          200          200         220          220          220         250          250           250       270
Debt Service
Interest:  Proposed IIA Credit: Interest Daring
Construction                                        36         135          211         115
Interest Charged
to Revenue                                                                              115          225          218          210          200        190
Future Borrowings:  Interest Daring
Construection                                                                                         65          1514        203
Interest Charged to
Revenue                                                                                                                                    225         217
Debt to Govennment: Interest Charged to
Revenue                                                                               1 292        1,259        1 224        1 187        1 E7      1,105
Total Interest                                                   -                         135          211         2          1,549        1,5         1             1,52       1512
Amortization:
Proposed IDA Credit                                                                                                   60         125          132          140           150       160
Future Borrowings                                                                                                                                                       118        126
Debt to Government                                                                                                  509          542          577          614          654        696
Total Amortization                                                 6                                                                    7      09 9       2              972
Total Debt Service                                                                36          135         211        2,091       2,216        2,305        2,354         2,494     2,494
Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                  284          (103)         1b3          229       1,425       (1,672)         327        (89)         (309)           18        535
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Receivable                                 522         (440)          60          60          130           80           80          90           120       1140
Increase (Decrease) in Inventories                                        (384)          17           13           20          45           15           26          24            30         33
Decrease (Increase) in Current Liabilities                                 383          390          190         (30)        (240)         110         (60)         (76)          (24)       (23)
TOTAL APPLICATION                                __ __1                     7 210          0          2799                                    12         74,333    4 3,88            9
Debt Service Coverage:
Total Debt Coverage                                                           21.6        14.1         10.0          1.2         1.2          1.3          1.4           1.5       1.7
Excluding Debt to Government                                                  21.6        14.1         10.0          8.5         6.6          6.o          6.0           5.2       6.0



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION -- ACCRA-TENA AREA
Estimated Balance Sheets
-----------------Project Construction-------
Year Ehding June 30                  1968           1969          1970          1971          1972          1973          1974             1975          1976         1977            1978
-----.  ----------- - ---- -i F'---   --- - --- --- - -------- -- -- ---- --- --- - --- -   --------- -- --- -- --- - --- ------
ASSiTS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                   34,598         35,494        36,018        37,461        40,543        42,499        44,672           47,000        49,058       51,346          52,957
Less:  Depreciation              5 197           6 189         7 194         8 235         9 353        10,520        11,741           13 020   1435      0       15,737          17,164
Net Plant in Service             29,40f         2,0           282                         331,979                      32,931          33,37                                      17.164
hbrk-in-Progress                   1 280             584         2 036         4 149         2.337         2,941         3,053            2 629         3,024        1.986           1,645
Total Fixed Assets                                                          33,375        33,527        34,920        35,984                         37,732        37,595         37,3
Current Assets
Cash                                  732            629           772         1,001         2,426           754         1,081              992           683           701          1,236
Net Accounts Receivable               728          1,250           810           870           930         1,060         1,140            1,220         1,310         1,430          1,570
Inventories                           664            280           297           310           330           37             390             416           440           470            503
Total Current Assets                                           1Ix I,879  i       2,11     3                            2,61=14313
TOTAL ASSETS                     32,805         322048        32,739        35,556        37,213        37,109         38,595          39,237        40,165        40,1%          40,747
LIABILITIES
Bluity:
Government Investment              32,081        32,081         12,081        12,081        12,081        12,081        12 081           12,081        12,081       12,081          12,081
Earned Surplus (Deficit)          (1,169)         (1,723)       (1,952)       (1,086)         (99)          (194)         6;51)             140           746        1,425           2,665
Customers' Ccntribution                              200           400           600           820         1 040         1 260            1 510         1 760         2 010          2 280
Total Equity                            3        0 ,55             9 312                                12,927        13,190                         T1,73 1458
Long-Term Debt:
Proposed IDA Credit                                              1,110         3,051         3,471         3,511          3,386           3,254         3,114         2,964          2,804
Future Borrowings                                                                                                         2,000           2,750         3,500         3,382          3,256
Debt to Government                                              20,000        20,000        20,000        19,491        18,949           18,372        17,758        17,104         16,4o8
Less: Current Maturities           _                                                        (569)         ( 667)         (709)           (754)          (922          982         (1,046)
Total Long-Term Debt                                          21,110        23,051        22,902                                       23,622         2345
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                      386            390           400           410           420            460           470             490            506          530            553
Customers' Deposits & Advances      1,487          1,100           700           500           520           720            600             640            700          700            700
Current Maturities                                                                             569           667            709             754            922          982          1 o46
Total Current Liabilities        1873                         1 100           910         1,509         1,847          1779                           2121
TOTAL LIABILITIFS                              2t 739_23 375 37.213                                     37.109                                       0'1
Long-Term Debt as % of Total Capital    0              °             67            67            64             63            64              63            62            59             56
Current Assets to Current Liabilities  1.1            1.4           1.7           2.4            2.4           1.2           1.5             1.4            1.1          1.2             1.4



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3 pages
GHANA - ACCRA-TEIA AREA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        Water production and sales and sewerage revenue are based on the
following assumptions:
Year
ending     No. of connections to Water Sales (M4g) to   % unaccounted-
June 30    be added this year      be added this year     for water
Water         Sewer
1969        1,500            -            270                   39
1970        2,000            -            360                   39
1971        2,000            -            360                   39
1972        2,100          400            378                   38
1973        3,100           945           558                  38
1974        2,500          250            450                  37
1975        2,700          270            486                  37
1976        3,000          300            540                  36
1977        3,000          300            540                  36
1978        3,200          320            576                  35
2.        Provision for bad debt is assumed to be 5% of billings as the
general water rate which was mainly responsible for bad debts in the past
is proposed to be abolished.
3.        Other revenue is projected on the basis of 7% of water billing
in accordance with past experience.
4.        Operating costs are projected on the following bases:
(i)  Personnel Services Expenses will be maintained at existing
level on the assumption that any increase will be offset
by a decrease due to phasing out of redundant staff members.
Staff for sewerage operations is assumed to be transferred
from the existing staff.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3 pages
(ii) Electricity, Chemicals, Fuel and Lubricants: vary with
total production; total costs based on present unit costs.
(iii) Maintenance and Repair Parts: proportionate to net Plant in
service at about 0.12% and 0.11% respectively.
(iv)  Transportation, Office Supplies & Others:  Increased by 5%
per annum.
(v)  Service Connections:  Increased according to number of
connections to be added.
4.        Accounts receivable are assumed to decrease from 65% of billing
amount for 1969, to 35% for 1970 and 25% (which is equivalent to the total
billing of three months) for 1971 and onwards.
5.       Inventories are proportionate to total expense of chemicals,
fuel and lubricants, repair parts and service connections and are
projected to increase modestly as operations and investments increase.
6.       Accounts payable are assumed to be kept at 25% of total spend-
ing all the way.
7.       Customer's advances which were unduly large in 1968 are
expected to be reduced gradually to a reasonable size of N$500,000 for
1971 and be proportionate to connections made thereafter.
8.       Average water rate is assumed at N%45A,OOO gallons in Fry 1970,
N.63/1,000 gallons from 1971 to 1977 and N0.65/1,000 gallons thereafter.
9.       Sewerage rates are assumed to be 100% of the water bill.
10.      N¢20 million of the old debts incurred on previous projects
would be transferred to GWSC by Government to be repaid by GWSC in 20
years at 6  per annum.  Payment of interest and repayment of principal
would start from December 1972 in semi-annual installments.
11.      The proposed IDA financing is assumed to be relent to GWSC
as a loan for about 20 years, with a grace period of 3A years, at
interest rate of 6G per annum.
12.      Future borrowings are assumed to cover the foreign exchange
requirement for the Second Stage water project during 1973-1976.
This would be a 20 year loan, at 6WS per annum interest with a grace
period of 3 years.
13.      The average depreciation rate for 1968 was 2.8% which is reason-
able.  The average depreciation for new assets from 1969 is assumed at 2.55%.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3 pages
14.       Interest during construction is assumed to be capitalized.
15.       Costs of sewerage operation, except the main item - personnel
expenses which are based on manpower needed, are assumed to be about
one-tenth of relevant costs of water operation.
March 12, 1969



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Debt Service Schedule on previous projects financed by Suppliers, Credits
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -Unit: US$ 00OO - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Contract
Year ending Decembe- 31                             Price        1969       1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979
Accra-Tema Area
Weija & Kpong Water Works                          2,400        214        54         68         93        110        125       146        159        163        171         87
New Kpong Water Works                             34,834      4,202     4,068      4,091      2,625     1,164      1,348      1,599      1,761      1,823      1,928        986
Weija & Kpong Works Extension                      1,725        159         36        47         68         82         94       112        122        127        134         69
Sub-Total Accra-Tema Area                      38,959     4,575      4,15d      4,206     2,786      1,356      1,567      1,757      2,042      2,113      2,233     1,142
Other Regions
Swedru Water Supply                                2,880        509       282         90        124        144       165        193        210        216        226        114
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi Water Supply              8,498     1,185      1,137      1,104      1,075     1,038        998        139        151        155        163         83
100 Unit type Water Supply Accessories             2,087       413        393        374          7          9        10         12         13         13         15          7
Asbestos Cement Pipes                              1,842        374        356       200         69         81         92       107        116        119        125         63
Fittirgs for Water Supply Division                   254         66         2          3          5          6         7          8          9         10         10          5
Purification Equipment and Tanks                     518         55        53         52         52         38         -                    -          -          -          -
Asbestos Cement Pipes                                384          7          7         6         12         15         18         21         23        23         25         13
Sub-Total Other Regions                          16,463      2,609     2,230      1,831      1,344      1,331     1,290        480        522        536        56         285 
Total For Ghana                                           7,184      6,388      6,037      4,130     2,687      2,857      2,237      2,564      2,649        7        1,427
Note         Ghana Government meets these
obligations at present.
February 3, 1969



MAP 1.
U  P  P E  R                                          V O  L T A
._ _, 1-.,__  ,   ,                                 _ v_..-1'  i.  A BAWKLj
U                         U 6   P       E         *               *    8     06A
ABOLGATA *A
A
5  ,                            (                                                              L E G E ND
AwA                                                                          A      OPERATED  BY  G.W.S.C.
OPERATED BY LOCAL COUNCILS OR OTHER BODIES
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-IZ -)   PROJECT AREA
A                (                ii INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
ATAMALE                       A
U)                     \f\
A~~~~~~~~~
R~~~~
*- A ^- '-t s* '<
A~~~~~~~~
A
IK \ A 1|Vtvi 1~                                                   AH    
A~~~~ ----                                                                                                           0  KSMB  
A
\ \ x, / F KOFORID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA .#
NAREKESE A                              /t
)~~~~~~~~~~~
/ -   "        /                                              E IA  A
0 )                                       A~~~~~~~~~~ANI~~~s             A~
\        3                 u.           \ @s   A                                             *~~A        4
/')                *        ^O5  .) A 
i--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-O
A ~         ~~~~~~~~~                                  A
/                         N~~~KOFDRWEDR
-                              -    \*=--  J                                                                           AN  _-
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:AGHA G         A
.EBIUTIYG.969ED                                          WAT2R74U
EEBIRUA   1969                                                                                                                                         IBSD 2474R



MAP 2.
GHANA: ACCRA-TEMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ACCRA  WATER  MAINS AND SEWERAGE
4~~~~~~~
__  ______MAINS UNDEIJ WANTERUCTORK
_                          EXI___EXS STIN6  MAINS              :__             __d
-- - -e                                                                    - MAN:NE  CNTUTO
_   -X- X-         - - DEVELOPMENT  BOUNDARY
__ .__UILT-UP   AREA
 - - - -PROPOSED SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                            "IT 0 oO00  I ooo se! T                                           =
_  6ra nOb   SO  Sers no f , hot a) _AG  C                                                                            _______________           ___  _____       __________________________________________________IB D 2 7
I llD]F' 1 qCq                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 24 7 6R



-     - - - - - - - - -   - --  
- -  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
--           H~~-- - -- - -- -
- - - - -I-- - - - -I-
77   _70         
Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I



