CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 160 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Accra/Tema Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 28, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 160 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Accra/Tema Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 28, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 1969, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions) :
The words "or the Project Agreement" are added
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
Section 8.02.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) " GWSC" means the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation, a statutory corporation established by the
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation Act, 1965, of the
Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and GWSC of even date herewith, provid-
ing for the carrying out of the Project, as the same shall
be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and GWSC.


﻿4
(c) ",Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 4.03(a) of this Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GWSC, as the same
shall be amended from time to time with the approval of
the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred
thousand dollars ($3,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Categories I, III, IV and VI of the allo-


﻿5
cation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) such amounts as (A) shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for, and (B) shall represent
the foreign exchange component (as determined by
the Association) of, the goods or services included
in Categories II and V of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made under Categories I, III, IV and VI of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement on account of payments in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(4 of 1%1) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-


﻿'II
6
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1/%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Development Credit Agreement to expendi-
tures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and
services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, except as otherwise provided in such Schedule 3.
SECTION 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying
out the Project, except as the Association may otherwise
agree.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in con-


﻿7
fornity with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all action
which shall be necessary on its part to enable GWSC to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take any action that would interfere with the
performance of such obligations by GWSC.
(b) Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obli-
gations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
specifically undertakes to enable GWSC to establish and
maintain tariffs at such levels as may be necessary for
GWSC to fulfill the requirements of Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall consult the Association about
any proposed appointment to the position of Managing
Director of GWSC sufficiently in advance of any such ap-
pointment for the Association to have adequate opportunity
to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
person, or persons, the Borrower is considering for such
position and shall make any such appointment only after
consideration of the views expressed by the Association.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, to GWSC on
terms and conditions and pursuant to a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any pro-
vision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿8
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project and to record the prog-
ress of the Project (including the cost thereof); shall en-
able the Association's representatives to inspect the Proj-
ect, such goods and services and any relevant records and
documents; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project and such
goods and services.
SECTION 4.05. (a) Thc Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as shall be
reasonably requested with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the Bor-
rower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the mainte-
nance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.


﻿9
SECTION 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall enter into, and maintain in
effect, arrangements with GWSC, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, providing for the payment by GWSC to the Bor-
rower of 20,000,000 New Cedis in currency of the Borrower
on account of debt incurred for fixed assets of GWSC and
serviced by the Borrower, such arrangements to provide,
inter alia, that:
(i) payment of such amount shall be made o-;er a term
of 20 years commencing in June 1973;
(ii) GNWSC shall pay to the Borrower interest on the
unpaid balance of such amount at a rate of 61/27
per annum; and
(iii) payment of such amount and of interest thereon
shall be subordinated to all debt of GWSC owed to
creditors other than the Borrower.
The Borrower shall not, without the agreement of the As-
sociation, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of such
arrangements.
SECTION 4.07. Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall reimburse GWSC on a
quarterly basis for any amounts owing to GWSC from
local authorities for water supplied which remain unpaid
two months after billing.
SECTION 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with
GWSC within one year from the date of this Agreement
establishing values acceptable to the Association for the
fixed assets of GWSC transferred by the Borrower to
GWSC.
SECTION 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿10
(i) provide all funds, without resort to the financial
resources of GWSC, required to meet the capital
and development cost of any water supply or
sewerage projects or other services which do not
meet GWSC's investment criteria and which are
undertaken by GWSC solely at the request of the
Borrower; and
(ii) reimburse GWSC on a quarterly basis the amounts
of any losses incurred by GWSC in operating arid
maintaining any such projects or providing any
such services.
SEcTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. This Development Credit Agreement, the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTIoN 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-


﻿11
tion such principal, together with such charges, shall be-
come due and payable immediately, anything in this Do-
velopment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are.
specified:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any
obligation of GVWSC under the Project Agreement, and
such default shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and GWSC.
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Ghana Water and Sewer-
age Corporation Act, 1965, shall have been amended, with-
out the agreement of the Association, so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the carrying out of the Project or the
operations or financial condition of GWSC, and such evont
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
SECTION 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified:
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shtAll
make it improbable that GNWSC will be able to perfonin
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development


﻿12
Uredit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(n) the exceution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalif of GWSC have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Borrower and (WSC have entered into the Sub-
midiary Lonln Agreciment in form satisfactory to the Asso-
cintion, and lie Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become
fully effective and binding on the parti -s thereto in accord-
aINe with its terms, subject only to lie effectiveness of
th oit(is Aeemet ; and
(t) tie Borrower and (IW,<-  have entered into the ar-
nigenientis referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
H   is,( 3.02. The following are specified as additional
In slm within the me1aning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
etal ('onditioni, to be included in the opinion or opinions
lo be furiiNh4d to the Association:
t that the Proj ect grieemenit has been duly authorized
s ligifiid by, and excented and delivered on behalf of,
MV mnd costitutes a valid and binding obligation of
OWNt in atoordance with itm teris; and
Ish th at the  s Muhidiaiy Loan Agreement has been duly
A uthihl (sr ratilled by, and executed and delivered on
blIf Isf, te hxrower and W   and constitutes valid
å41d binag  sligatios of the BoI'rower' and GWSc in
s 1nrduurt ih its termn%
S4%      The date of December 1, 1969 is hereby
et:   d for the purp ose of seetion 10.04 of the General
m The obligations of the Borrower under
41 434, 4       0 f and 4.,) of this Agreemnent
s n the date on which this )evelopmuent


﻿13
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date on which
the Project Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Commissioner responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Alternative address for cables:
Prudence
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their i'epresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GIANA
By /s/ E. M. DEBRTIAH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ SImoN ALiEWERELD
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Water distribution mains, service
connections and water meters            1,480,000
II. Installation of items in Category I      180,000
III. Sewer pipes and accessories              460,000
IV. Sewage pumps and electrical and
mechanical equipment                      240,000
V. Construction  of sewage pumping
stations and installation of items in
Categories III and IV                    650,000
VI. Consulting Services                       230,000
VII. Unallocated                               260,000
Total                               3,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to VI shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory VII.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to VI shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Asso-
ciation, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from Category VII, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in
respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A. The improvement and expansion of the water supply
system of Accra, including the laying of new mains to
enable diversion of water from Accra terminal reservoir to
Western Accra, laying of new mains and extension of
secondary and tertiary distribution grids to serve develop-
ing areas in and around Accra and provision for service
connections and water meters required to meet anticipated
needs up to the end of 1972;
B. The extension of the main distribution grid of the
water supply system of Tema to supply water to new hous-
ing developments and meet increase in demand from com-
mercial and industrial consumers;
C. The construction of a sewerage system in Accra to
serve certain residential areas, including East and West
Ridge, Ussher Town, James Town, the Ministries Area and
the industrial and commercial areas of central Accra, in-
cluding the provision of ocean outfalls, intercepting sewers,
branch and lateral sewers and appurtenant works and the
building and equipping of three pumping stations; and
D. The improvement of GWSC's organization and op-
erations.
The construction of the Project is expected to be com-
pleted by December 31, 1972.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Supplementary Procedures for procurement of Goods
Referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
1. With respect to contracts for the procurement and/or
installation of goods, estimated to cost in excess of (i) in
the case of water meters, $25,000 equivalent and (ii) in
the case of all other goods, $50,000 equivalent;
(a) If prequalification of bidders is used, notices of pre-
qualification and a description of the prequalification and
advertising procedures to be followed will be submitted to
the Association for review and approval prior to the issu-
ance of notices of prequalification.
(b) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, all other tender documents and the method and places
of advertising will be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval prior to the issuance of invitations to
bid.
(c) After bids have been received and analyzed, the anal-
ysis of the bids, and the proposals for awards, together
with the reasons for such proposals, will be submitted to
the Association for its review and approval prior to the
Borrower's making any award of contract or issuing any
letter of intent.
(d) If the final contract is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective docu-
ments approved by the Association under paragraphs (b)
and (c) above, the text of the proposed changes will be
submitted to the Association for its review and approval
prior to the execution of such contract or issuance of any
letter of intent.
(e) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof will be sent to
the Association.


﻿18
2. With respect to such contracts estimated to cost (i) in
the case of water meters $25,000 equivalent or less and
(ii) in the case of all other goods, $50,000 equivalent or less,
copies of the invitation to bid, the bid analysis and evalua-
tion, the contract or order and any other documents the
Association may request will be sent to the Association
promptly after the execution of the respective contract or
order and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract.


