Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5963-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROjECT
May 8, 1986
Urban and W4ater Supplv Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienis only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1986)
Currency Unit  = Won (W)
Won            = $0.00136
$1.00          = W 880 /1
W 1 million    = S1,136
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             = 3,28 feet
1 kilometer (km)        = 0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m)  = 10.8 square feet (sq ft)
. hectare (ha)          = 10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres or
3,024 pyongs (py)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNB      =      Citizen's National Bank
EPB      =       Economic Planning Board
ERR      =      Economic Rate of Return
HPRC     =      Housing Policy Review Committee
!CB      =      International Competitive Bidding
ISWACO   =      Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation
KHB      =      Korea Housing Bank
KLDC     =       Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC     =      Korea National Housing Corporation
KRIHS    =       Korea Research Institute for Human
Settlements
LCB      =      Local Competitive Bidding
LTMP     =       Long-Term Management Plan
MOC      =      Ministry of Construction
MOF      =       Ministry of Finance
MOHA     =      Ministry of Home Affairs
NHF      =       National Housing Fund
OSROK    =       Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
p.a.     =      per annum
PSIDP    =      Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Program
/1 In this report "$" refers to US dollars.



FOl OFFCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PRCJECTr
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower: Korea Land Development Corporation CKLDC).
Guarantor: Republic of Korea.
Amount:   $150 million equivalent.
Terms:    Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The project would support a comprehensive program of
institutional and policy development for KLDC. which
includes strengthening of its financial management, studies
on pricing and cost allocation for developed land, better
accounting and management information systems, improved
procedures for project selection and evaluation. the
establishment of training prcgrams and the adoption of land
development goals for low-income housing. Loan funds would
finance the foreign exchange cost of a four-year time slice
(1986-89) of KLDC's programs to develop urban land on a
national scale. This includes the acquisition of about 3.600
ha of land, the development and provision of infrastructure
and services to about 2,700 ha of land for housing, and
about 1.000 ha of land for industrial sites. The developed
land would provide housing to about one million persons.
about 520.000 of whom would be in the lower half of the
income distribution.
Risks:   There are no serious risks in the project.  The risk that
KLDC may be slower than anticipated in adopting
institutional and policy reforms is minimized by the
commitment of KLDC's management to the proposed
institutional programs. Regular reviews of progress by the
Bank and KLDC during project implementation would help
ensure that institutional and policy reforms proceed on
schedule. The proposed implementation schedule for land
development is feasible based on previous project
experience.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
Estimated Project Cost                            ($ Million)
Land Acquisition                            1122.8       0.0   1122.8
Land Development                             249.3     119.0    368.3
Engineering & Administration                  13.2       4.4     17.6
Base Cost - January 1986 Prices          1385.3     123.4   1508.7
Physical Contingencies                        69.2       6.2     75.4
Price Contingencies                          244.5      20.4   264.9
Project Cost a]                          1699.0     150.0  1849.0
Financing Plan
Proposed IBRD Loan                              -      150.0    150.0
Other Loans                                   30.0       -       30.0
KLDC's Internal Cash Generation             1669.0       -     1669.0
Total Financing Requirements             1699.0     150.0   1849.0
Bank Fiscal Years          -
Estimated Disbursements     1987      1988     1989    1990      1991
-    S  -  NMillion-
Annual             15       38        45      39        13
Cumulative         15       53       98      137       150
Economic Rate of Return:     16Z
a]   Including Duties and Taxes estimated at $15 million equivalent.
Interest during construction is not included. since it is not
capitalized by KLDC.



KOREA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE HOUSING SECTOR       ...........................  1
Housing Demand and Supply        ....................  1
Housing Pollicies and Plans ................. .     2
Housing Institutions ..      .......................  2
Sectoral Issues and Constraints                     3
Scarcity of Serviced Land ................... .    3
Insufficient Housing Finance .............          4
Bank Objectives and Lending in the Sector  ....    4
Experience with Past Lending .....     ............    5
Rationale for Bank Involvement   ................ 
II.     THE BORROWER       .................................  6
The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC).      6
Organization ............... ...0..... .................  6
KLDC's Policies ..............................      6
KLDC's Programs ...............                     6
KLDC's Past Finances ......    ...................   8
Strengthening of Financial Management ........      8
Future Finances .................                   9
III.     THE PROJECT       ..................................    10
Project Origin and Formulation ...     ............   10
Project Objectives ............. . .............    10
Project Description ..........................    10
Subproject Approval ......    ....................    11
Project Cost ..      ...............................    11
Financing Plan ...............................    12
Procurement   ..................................    12
Disbursements    ................................   13
Project Implementation ........... ............   13
Accounts and Audits ..........................   13
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Miszion
consisting of Messrs. C. Fernandez (Sr. Financial Analyst). E.
Fernando (Sr. Engineer) and L.M. Hannah (Economist). who visited Korea
in November. 1985. Miss Elisabeth Hellman assisted in preparing the
report.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.    PRCIECT JUSTIFICATION . ......................****** .    14
Justification and Benefits ...................   14
Cost Recovery and Affordability ..............   14
Economic Rate of Return ...... .. ........... ..   14
Project Risks ..........*...*...............    15
V.    AGREEHENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........   16
ANNEXES
1.  Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Programs (PSIDP) of KLDC ..   17
2.  Sector Organization .....................   22
3.  Procedures and Policies for Site
Selection and Pricing ............ ....   27
4.  KLDC's Programs and the Prcposed Project.   34
5.  Disbursement Schedule ...................   46
6.  Financial and Economic Analysis .........   47
7.  Assumptions for Financial Projections ...   57
8.  Cost Allocation Study of Urban Land
Development Project - Draft Terms
of Reference ......... ...   ...... .. .   60
9.  Strengthening of KLDC's Financial
Management and Corporate Planning -
Draft Terms of Reference ..............   64
10.  Documents Available in the Project File .   66
CHART
1.  KLDC Organization Chart ............... ..   67
MAP
1.  Republic of Korea
(IBRD 19392R)



I.   lSOl AMD GAN LAUD Dm3V 
1.01     Housing Demand and Supply.  In the past 25 years. the Korean
economy has been transformed from predominantly rural-agricultural to
urban-industrial. Between 1960 and 1985. the proportion of GNP
generated by agriculture decreased from 48 to 131. In the same
period,   the urban population increased from 30S of the total
population to 651.   Although the overall population growth rate has
declined significantly (from about 3S in 1960 to less than 1.51 now).
the urban population is still growing about three times as fast. It
is estimated that by the year 2000, over 801 of the population will be
living in cities.   The rate of urban household formation is even
higher, given the age structure of the population.   An estimated
300.000 new urban households are formed each year and this trend is
expected to continue into the 1990s.
1.02      To meet the demand from the new households,  and to
eliminate, over time, the existing backlog, it is estimated that
400,000 new housing units would be needed annually for the next
several years. In contrast, actual construction averaged only 165,000
units p.a. in the 1970s and 200.000 units p.a. in the past five
years. The net addition to the housing stock has been even smaller
(150.000 units p.a. in the past five years) due to substantial
demolition and amalgamation of older units.
1.03      The wide gap between housing demand and supply has caused
serious strains on the housing market. which has translated into
worsening housing conditions in terms of overcrowding, particularly in
the larger cities.   In contrast to Government objectives, the number
of housing units per 100 households declined from 85 in 1966 to 68 in
1983.   Although average space standards have improved significantly
(each housebold occupied an average of 47 sq m in 1980. up from 34 sq
m in 1970). many households now share a housing unit with several
other families.   In 1980. only 301 of urban households occupied a
single dwelling. while 30Z shared with one other family, 18Z with two
families and 22Z with three or more families. Between 1970 and 1980.
the average number of urban households per housing unit almost doubled
from 1.2 to 2.2.
1.04     According to the Government's plan, construction of housing
is to be shared approximately equally between the private and public
sectors, with the latter catering primarily to low- and moderate-
income families.   The share of new housing production by the public
sector has increased over the past five years. primarily because
private sector construction declined during the economic downturn of
the early 1980s, while public sector output was maintained according
to plans.   Both the growing gap between the number of households and
dwelling units and the increasing public sector share are indicative
of the constraints on the housing sector.    All developers are
confronted with a shortage of serviced land for housing construction.
The public sector has been able to offer a limited amount of financing
to all its buyers, but only about half of the privately developed
units receive any formal financing.



- 2 -
1.05     Housing Policies and Plans. Over the past twenty years,
housing policy has evolved from a relatively laG priority to being the
key component of social policy.   When formal housing policies were
established. the initial objective was to increase the supply of
housing, and the emphasis was on direct delivery by public sector
institutions to promote home ownership especially among lower income
groups. The Korea National Housing Corporation (CNHlC) was established
in 1962 to complement the dominant private sector efforts. This
policy has continued with the public sector addressing the needs of
the lower income groups by building smaller and lower-priced units
than those offered by the private sector.  A policy of having public
institutions take the lead in addressing major sector bottlenecks was
reinforced with the establishment of tne Korea Housing Bank  MB) in
1967 and the Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) in 1978.
Although the main policy theme has been to expand the quantity of
housing, the dominant concern for equity and a series of measures
designed to restrain prices in the sector have contributed to slower
than expected progress in improving housing conditions.   Recent
thinking among Korean policy-makers is to broaden the objectives of
housing policy to include improvements of rental accommodation as well
as owner-occupied housing and to promote increased housing
construction by the private sector.
1.06     The Government's goals for the sector are reflected in its
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plans and are translated
into annual programs by the Housing Policy Review Committee (HPRC)
which includes members from the Economic Planning Board (EPB). the
Ministry of Construction (HOC). KXDC and others. MOC's Housing Bureau
prepares an annual housing plan which contains specific targets for
the public sector housing construction program. Government objectives
are to increase the ratio of houses to households (both urban and
rural) from 0.68 in 1983 to 0.75 by 1991 while continuing to increase
the floor area per person.  This will require construction of about 2
million new housing units between 1986 and 1991.  Until the early
1970s. Government's policy kept investment in the sector very low.
averaging only about 3S of GNP.  Since that time. it has climbed to
between 5% and 7Z of GNP. which is typical for countries of similar
incomes and levels of urbanization. The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-
1986) specified a target of 1.460.000 new units, with 39Z to be
constructed by the public sector.   However. by end-1984. only about
640.000 units were actually constructed, of which 411 were accounted
for by the public sector. It is unlikely that the targets for the
Fifth Plan will be achieved, due to the recession in the early 1980s
which reduced the demand for housing, and because of the continuing
shortage of developed land on the supply side and housing finance on
the demand side (paras. 1.10 to 1.13).
1.07     Housing Institutions.  MOC is the key agency in the sector.
Its Housi'ng Bureau is responsible for housing sector policies.
planning and regulations. approval of housing construction plans
(which are largely prepared by the local governments), and research
on housing costs, materials and specifications. MOC's Land Bureau is
responsible for land policies. development plans, price surveys and
the approval of land acquisition for public use. Two semi-autonomous
public corporations under MOC - KLDC and KNHC - were established to



deal with major bottlenecks in the sector. KLDC, the borrower for the
proposed project, develops urban land on a large scale. primarily for
housing. Since serviced land is a bottleneck for both public and
private developers. KLDC has a mandate to develop sites to serve both.
KNHC contracts with private builders for the construction of large-
scale housing projects. KNHC hags produced about 227.000 units over
the past five years. or about 232 of total new construction, and sold
35,000 units in 1984.   To make public housing attractive and
affordable to low and middle-income buyers, KNHC has concentrated on
the smaller end of the market. In 1984. its housing units averaged 55
sq m, ranging between 30 sq a and 80 sq m.  The size of the minimum
unit is increasing slowly over tine, to match demand. Details of the
sector organization and institutions are presented in Annex 2.
1.08     Almost all long-term financing of housing is provided by two
Government-owned institutions, KHB and the National Housing Fund
(NHF). KHB is a specialized bank (under the direction of the Ministry
of Finance) which makes long-tern loans to individuals for house
purchases. NHF is a separate Government fund, managed by KHB for a
fee, which provides loans for the purchase of smaller houses
constructed by various public bodies such as local governments.
housing cooperatives and RNHC.
Sectoral Issues and Constraints
1.09      The two major constraints in the housing sector are the
limited availability of serviced urban land and insufficient long-term
mortgage financing, which are discussed below.
1.10     Scarcity of Serviced Land.  The provision of serviced urban
land has proved to be the most serious constraint affecting the supply
of housing. Korea has one of the highest population densities in the
world. Moreover, almost 70Z of the country is mountainous and thus is
not suitable for agriculture or residential construction. Agriculture
and urban development are therefore confined to some 33.000 sq km.
mainly in valleys and on low hillsides. The population density
exceeds 1.200 persons per sq km in these areas. As a result.
suitable land is intensively used for agricultural. industrial and
residential purposes.
1.11     There is a broad consensus on land policies in Korea.  These
policies reflect two main concerns: the need to protect agricultural
land in order to promote food self-sufficiency. and the belief that
most of the increased value in land brought about by regulatory
change, such as rezoning. and by expanded urbanization should accrue
to the general public and not to individuals. As a result. there are
some 70 laws involving several ministries which have a role in
regulating the use and transfer of land. In fact. almost half of the
sites proposed for development by KRDC since 1980 have been rejected
by other ministries due to these laws and regulations.   At present.
however. there is an awareness that the complex and time-consuming
procedures involved in applying these laws may have become a barrier
to developing an adequate supply of urban land. and the Government has
already taken some actions to streamline the administrative processes.



- 4 -
1.12     Land ownership is widely dispersed and requires the purchase
of many small plots for a typical land development project. This
fragmentation and the desire of the population to retain ownership
have made land acquisition. especially for the private sector.
difficult and costly. The scarcity of urban land has resulted in
:rice increases averagin& 7X p.a. in real terms, but reaching 20S pa.
in some large cities during the past five years. Since land represents
a larger share of the cost of a house in Korea than in most other
countries. high land prices make housing even less affordable or
available. The Government's efforts to increase the supply of new
urban land under these circumstances have resulted in most of the new
land developed in recent years being through the efforts of KLDC and
KNEC. and. to a lesser extent. the Industrial Sites and Water
Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO) and local governments.
Legislation approved in December. 1985 has simplified some of the
regulatory processes governing land development. The proposed project
would support KLDC's efforts to provide more urban land and improve
its delivery capacity.
1.13       Insufficient Housing Finance.  The other important
constraint to satisfying the effective demand for housing has been the
lack of a developed housing finance system.   Only 7X of the value of
new housing and 151 of the units built since 1967 were covered by
formal loans. In 1984, the buyers of 781 of the new units received a
mortgage which. however. covered only 26Z of the value. The remaining
74Z of the house price was financed from savings and informal. higher-
cost borrowing. Under this essentially cash-financed system. housing
production has been restrained. with hour.tholds purchasing less
housing and later in life than in countries of comparable incomes.
The very frequent turnover of house ownership (every 3.7 years) is
indicative of the inability of prospective homeowners. in the absence
of adequate long-term housing finance. to invest in homes that would
satisfy their medium- to long-term requirements.   Because of the
large cash requirements to purchase a house. the low- and medium-
income groups particularly have been unable to own a house. The Bank
has recently completed a sector study of the housing finance system.
which recommends expansion of market-based mortgage lending in
conjunction with liberalization of the financial system and increased
targeting of concessionary financing through the NHF. This study is
being discussed with the Government which has given a favorable
initial response to the policy recommendations of the study.
Consideration is now being given to a possible future housing sector
loan. provided agreement can be reached on policy reforms and on an
action program to implement those reforms.
1.14      Bank Objectives and Lending in the Sector.   The Bank's
lending strategy for the sector is to support high priority
investments included in Government's development plans and through
these operations to improve the efficiency of the sector institutions.
Through its support of Government's development plans in the sector.
the Bank has the following key objectives:
(a) to increase the supply of urban land by improving policies
and strengthening programs for the delivery of developed
land and housing. especially for the lower-income



-5-
populetion;
(b) to strengthen sector institutions, promote sound investment
planning with emphasis on least-cost alternatives. and
improve the efficiency of the use of resources; and
(c)  to develop a solid financial basis for the sector, through
improvements in accounting, financial and management
information systems, and the adoption of appropriate cost
recovery and financial policies.
1.15     Experience with Past LendinR.  The First National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project (Loan 1980-KO). approved in 1981.
supported the establishment of KLDC and promoted. through KNEC. the
provision of several types of housing units affordable to low-income
households.  Practically all of the land developed under this project
has already been sold, and about 40Z of the land and 60S of the
housing units built on this land have been targeted for low- and
moderate-income persons. Housing construction will be completed by
mid-1986. The Second National Urban Land Development and Housing
Project (Loan 2216-KO). approved in 1982. further strengthened the two
sector institutions. KLDC and KNHC, and improved their coordination,
set social objectives for these projects and began to address houaing
finance issues. Land development is practically completed, and
housing construction vill be completed by the end of 1986. Both
projects have been implemented satisfactorily and have contributed to
raising Government's awareness of the need for low-income housing and
the introduction of innovations such as expandable core housing.
graduated mortgage payments and affordability analyses. In a short
period of five years. KLDC has become a key institution in the sector.
and studies financed under the above projects have provided the
Government with a good basis for improving housing policies. The
proposed project would continue and broaden the development of KLDC
initiated under these projects.
1.16     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's support for the
proposed project would sustain the institutional and policy
improvements achieved under the two previous projects by expanding
those measures to KLDC's entire program. In addition, the project
would introduce improved procedures for key activities such as the
economic and financial evaluation of sites, project planning. the
allocation of costs and the pricing of developed land.  Better
corporate financial planning and internal management procedures would
serve to reduce the commercial risks to KLDC in the emerging
environment of lower inflation in land values and high real interest
rates.  The project would also produce significant benefits for the
entire sector because of KLDC's strategic role in land development. In
particular. the economic evaluation of prospective sites, to be
introduced under this project. should have a positive impact on the
whole housing sector by demonstrating the use of sound criteria for
taking decisions on land management. The basic policies, such as
setting a minimum target for land supplied for low-income housing, and
the specific implementation program. are formalized in KLDC's Policy
Statement and Institutional Development Program (PSIDP. Annex 1 and
paras. 2.02 and 3.03(a)).



-6-
The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC)
2.01     Organization. KLDC was established in 1978. taking over the
activities of the Korea Land Bank, to contribute to urban development
by the acquisition. development, reclamation and supply of urban land.
and the redevelopment of dilapidated urban areas (urban renewal) as
well as to participate in the development of new city areas or towns.
KLDC is owned by the Government (91%) and the Korea Development Bank
(9%) and reports to MOC. KLDC's organizational structure and staffing
are appropriate for its functions (Chart 1).  Its Seoul headquarters
includes the President, one Senior Vice-President and three other
Vice-Presidents with 12 departments and about 300 persons. Twelve
Branch Offices headed by Branch Managers employ another 650 persons.
Under the Government-Invested Corporations Management Act of 1984.
public corporations have been given relative autonomy under their
respective Boards of Directors. However, their performances are
monitored and evaluated annually, and staff are rewarded with annual
bonuses of up to three additional months salary depending on the
institution's rating. KLDC's staff bonus in 1984 of about two and a
half months' salary reflects KLDC's healthy performance.   KLDC is
continuing to improve its efficiency, systems and procedures.
2.02      KLDC's Policies.  KLDC's policies have evolved during the
last five years and are included in its Long-Term Management Plan
(LTMP) approved in 1984. and its Management Guidelines. approved in
1985. The LTMP sets overall long-term plans and directions for the
Corporation but has yet to include clear social, financial and
economic targets. The proposed project is based on a Policy Statement
and Institutional Development Program (PSIDP. Annex 1) which expands
and clarifies the objectives of the LTMP. The PSIDP includes the
institutional development program described in para. 3.03(a) and the
following main policies:
(a)  the promotion of more efficient land use;
(b)  a social policy to set aside for low-income housing about
40% of the total residential land developed;
(c)  management guidelines to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of the corporation;
(d)  the use of improved demand and economic analysis for
subproject selection; and
(e) pricing at cost for low-income housing and public facilities
and at market prices for other users.
2.03     KLDC's Programs. KLDC's land development plans are based on
Government's targets under the Fifth Five-Year Plan and the draft



-7-
Sixth Plan (1987-1991). KLDC's growth during the past five years has
been impressive. Between 1980 and 1984 annual land acquisition for
development increased from 250 ha to 790 he. land development
increased from 275 ha to 728 ha during the same period, and the supply
of developed land  increased from  32 ha to 450 ha. Total investments
increased from W 62 billion ($100 million) to W 327 billion ($410
million).   KLDC's plans for the period 1986-89 are ambitious but are
feasible based on past experience.  Land development investments are
largely determined by technical and market considerations and. on the
average, each site would be de-7eloped and contracted for sale within
four years of acquisition. KLDC's total investment program during
1986-89 is planned at W 1.827 billion ($2,145 million). KLDC's three
main programs are summarized below (see Annex 4 for details):
(a)   Land Development Program.   KLDC's main activity is land
development. under which idle or marginally used land is purchased, a
development plan prepared, and the land rezoned and provided with all
of the necessary infrastructure  (water. sewerage, streets,
electricity, parks. public zones. etc.). Its bylaws, experience and
financial capacity give KLDC substantial advantages in the development
of large-sized sites. During the present Five-Year Plan, KLDC would
supply 3.540 ha of serviced land in about 40 municipalities throughout
the country. Total planned investments under the Fifth Plan would be
V 1.685 billion ($2,054 million). For the Sixth Plan (1987-91), KLDC
plans to acquire and se-vice about 4.700 ha of land in about 50
municipalities, with total investments of V 2,750 billion ($3.300
million). The land development program provides land for both housing
and industrial development. In the past. industrial sites represented
up to one third of KLDC's land development investments, but in the
Sixth Plan about 90% of investments would be for housing development.
These subprograms are described below:
(i) Housing Site Development. Preliminary housing objectives in
the Sixth Five-Year Plan call for the public sector to provide
about 60Z of the new land developed. KLDC would provide about
half of the land to be developed by the public sector, with the
allocation among municipalities and the magnitude of the
development being determined by detailed assessments of demand.
initially KLDC evaluates alternative unserviced sites within
municipal boundaries. After suitable sites are identified, KLDC
processes the approval for development as housing sites under the
Housing Site Development Promotion Law.   Approved sites are
purcbased, planned and developed in accordance with national and
municipal plans and regulations. Planning incorporates national
objectives to provide low-income groups with affordable housing
(for sale or rental) and complementary commercial and public
facilities. Housing is normally completed within two to three
years after the land is developed. To shorten the scheduie for
delivering houses, KLDC is now starting to sell semi-developed
land at the early stages of the project cycle, in order that
contractors could start housing construction simultaneously with
completing land development. This program also includes special
projects for the development of two large sites within Taejeon
City: one for research and academic institutions being relocated
from Seoul, and the other for expansion of the city's central



-8
area; and
(ii) Industrial Site Development.   KLDC. following Government
requests. develops specific industrial sites. The most important
program under execution is the development of the Namdong
Industrial Estate in Incheon. which is expected to provide 900
ha of serviced industrial land for the relocation of industries
from Seoul. Land acquisition for the industrial sites presently
planned by KLDC would be completed by 1988 with development being
completed by 1990.  Housing sites complementary to these
industrial sites are also included in this program.
(b) Urban Land Renewal Program.  This pilot program, started in 1984.
envisages the redevelopment of selected city areas to solve the
problems of substandard service levels, overcrowding, fragmentation of
ownership and inadequate planning of old neighborhoods.  The program.
which at present consists of only about 3 ha, is expected to
demonstrate the viability of the redevelopment of downtown areas and
of improving land use and environmental conditions.
[c)    Land Transactions Program.   During the 1970s, the returns on
investment in land were more profitable than most other investments
and, as a result, scarce urban land was purchased and left ida.e by
many companies.   KLDC has been given the responsibility to acquire
idle land and resell it gradually, acting as a "land bank". After
peaking in 1982 at 5,030 ha, this program has now been reduced to the
acquisition of only about 200 ha per year.
2.04      KLDC's Past Finances.  With a paid-in capital of W 229
billion (1985), KLDC is the fourth largest government-owned
corporation and the thirteenth by number of staff. Appropriate
control of expenses, efficient execution of projects, increases in
land prices (averaging 7% p.a. above inflation in the main cities
during the past five years). and high demand for land all contributed
to KLDC's excellent financial performance in recent years.  In 1985.
KLDC's net profits before taxes were W 166 billion. (3.5 times its net
profitr in 1984). equivalent to 45Z of its sales and 36% of its
equity. These profits, however, partly result irom inflation, since
the cost of the developed land (which is purchased and developed some
years Lefore) is not adjusted for inflation. KLDC's debt-to-equity
ratio was 0.9. its debt service ratio was 5.3. and net internal
sources financed 73% of its total investments.
2.05     Strengthening of Financial Management. KLDC's growth during
the past seven years has been impressive. with annual investments
increasing six times between 1980 and 1985 and the developed land
supplied increasing 22 times over that period. KLDC has thus become
one of the largest corporations in Koria.   Despite this tremendous
growth, there are still weaknesses in its financial management and
information systems. including lack of sufficient staff.  A number of
improvements in this area are included in the project (para. 3.03
(a)). mainly through the introduction of computers for project
analysis and for general accounting and inventories. KLDC has also
agreed to reinforce its Financial Management Division with additional
financial and accounting staff.    The PSIDP includes studies to



- 9 -
improve KLDC's financial management and corporate planning, thus
providing a solid basi.- for the future development of KLDC. Draft
Terms of Reference for a study to strengthen KLDC's financial
management and planning are presented in Annex 9.
2.06     Future Finances. Financial projections (Annex 6) indicate
that KLDC's financial position is expected to remain good. KLDC's net
operating income on sales would average 28Z. the debt service ratio
would exceed 1.9. and the income before taxes on equity would average
19%. KLDC's investments during the next four years are estimated at
$2.140 million. equivalent to four times its total equity in 1985.
About 76.5Z of thebea investments would be financed from internal cash
generation, primarily through the sale of land purchased and developed
before or during this period (para. 3.06). Sensitivity analysis (Annex
6) shows that both land prices and the efficiency of the project cycle
are very important for KLDC. KLDC's profitability in a given year
depends on the success of the individual sites. typically purchased
four years earlier. and is influenced by factors such as the
development schedule. the time required to sell the developed site,
the portion sold at cost (for low-income housing), the average selling
price and payment terms. and the prevailing market conditions.
Therefore. key variables for KLDC's financial viability are proper
site selection and evaluation. both of which are to be improved under
the PSIDP. To protect KLDC's financial position, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that KLDC would not incur any additional
long-term debt without prior Bank concurrence if its debt service
coverage falls below 1.3 in any calendar year.
2.07      To achieve the Government's social oLjectives. and to
maintain housing affordability for the lower-income population. land
for smaller-sized housing units would be sold at cost. The remaining
land would be sold at appraised market prices. It is therefore
important for KLDC to review its cost allocation and pricing
practices, which include taking into consideration location and other
advantages within a given site, the timing of the sale and. in some
cases. the level of infrastructure provided for a particular location
within a site. In addition some city center sites would also have
development costs which would benefit the entire city or even the
country (i.e. public parks. inter-city highways. etc.). Allocation of
such costs to some individual sites may increase selling prices
unreasonably. Improved pricing procedures in these areas would enable
KLDC to allocate and recover costs which may not be recoverable from
the direct beneficiaries. A pricing study, to be completed by mid-
1987. is included in the agreed PSIDP and draft Terms of Reference are
presented in Annex 8.



- 10 -
IIL IUK PROJECT
3.01     Project Origin and Formulation.   The proposed project is an
important part of the Government's plans to improve the availability
of serviced land for urban development and housing in Korea. It
builds upon the general objectives reflected in the LTMP for the
period 1985-1991, which was prepared by KLDC with the assistance of
advisers from local universities and research organizations in
consultation with government agencies. The project has been designed
to provide a detailed and sound basis for the successful
implementation of the LTMP.
3.02     Project Objectives.  The proposed project would improve both
the policies and performance of a key public institution in the urban
sector as well as support its programs to develop a significant
portion of newly developed urban land.   The project would address
what is presently the most cricical constraint for housing
development. The main project objectives are to:
(a) strengthen KLDCts management and administration;
i)  establioh corporate goals for serving the low-income
population;
Cc) improve KLDC's project evaluation procedures, and its cost
allocation and pricing policies; and
(d) support KLDC's urban land development program.
3.03       Project Description.   The project encompasses KLDC's
comprehensive program to improve its policies. procedures and
management. In support of this program. the proposed Bank loan would
finance a four-year time-slice (1986-89) of KLDC s land development
program and the implementation of the PSIDP.  The main cost item is
land acquisition (about 75%). KLDC's land transaction and urban
renewal programs do not require Bank support a. this stage: the former
because it is mainly a land banking function which is well financed by
debentures; and the latter because it is a small pilot effort.
(a) Policy and Institutional Development. Although KL%C1 is generally
well organized and managed, some areas require improvements. A main
component of the project would improve KLDC's policies. procedures and
management p-actices. The main vehicle to achieve these oDjectives
would be the PSIDP (Annex 1). which describes KLDC's policies (para.
2.02) and its proposed program for institutional developrient which
includes: (a) the strengthening of KLDC's financial management; Cb)
the establishment of improved criteria for physical plpnning; (c) a
review of cost allocation and pricing policies; (d) the establishment
of information systems for project planning and financial management.
and the annual updating of short-and medium--term corporate plans.
including development programs and financial projections; Ce) the
establishment of training programs and the constructio= of a training
center; and (f) the establishment of computerized accounting and



- 11 -
payroll systems. The Institutional Development Program would be fully
implemented by December 31. 1987 and all studies and review reports
would be sent to the Bank for comments. The PSIDP was reviewed and
agreed at negotiationa and is expected to be approved by RLDC's Board
of Directors in May 1986. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that KLDC would review annually with the Bank the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Institutional
Development Program. The first such review to take place not later
than October 31. 1986.
(b) Land Development. The project's land development component
includes the acquisition of about 3.600 ha of land and the
development of about 2.700 ha of land for housing and 1.000 ha of land
for industrial sites. In total. about 3.700 ha of serviced land
spread over about 120 sites would be supplied (available for sale) by
KLDC during this period.
3.04      Subproiect Approval.  KLDC's site selection and subproject
evaluation would use improved demand and feasibility analyses. and
each subproject approved would meet agreed financial criteria and an
economic rate of return higher than the opportunity cost of capital.
(Annex 3. paras. 6. to 8.). A detailed methodology for the financial
and economic evaluation of sub-projects has been agreed with KLDC. and
a computer program prepared for this purpose (Annex 3. Tables 1 to 3)
was applied to the main subprojects proposed for 1986-87. which were
found acceptable. Agreement was reached at negotiations that these
criteria would be used for the approval of all subprojects.
Feasibility studies for subprojects above 100 ha would be subject to
prior Bank review before being accepted for Bank financing.   The
remaining subprojects would be evaluated by KLDC and reviewed by the
Bank during project supervision.    KLDC's annual programs  and
investments would be reviewed and updated on a regular basis (para.
3.10).
3.05     Project Cost.    The proposed project focuses on KLDC's land
development program for 1986-89. estimated to cost W 1.575 billion.
($1,849 million) including foreign exchange requirements of about $150
million (812. Table 1). Including contingencies. the land acquisition
TAILE I - PROlJECT COST
-    BSLLION RNM          of     MILLION UN  -
Base                   Foreign
tocaL   Foreign  TotsL    Coat Locat  Foreign TotsL
LAN ACIcMBsTXNB 993.02               98B.02  74.4S 1122.75     1122.75   SOS.
For Housing        110.40         910.10  E90.9  1034.55    1034.55   0.OS
For IndustriaL Sitoo  77.82        77.52   U.l  9820          89.20   0.0S
UAN OEVELOPIN         219.44  104.68  324.12  24.41 243.37 t18.98 386.32  32.32
For Mousing         175.13   93.54  258.19  19.5  199.02  94.94 209.95  32.31
For XndustriaL Si"   4.31   21.14  65.18   4.9S  50.35  24.02  74.37   32.31
EN_ZiEEImU 1 ADNINISTRATIN   11.61    3.97   15.48   1.28  13.19   4.40  17.59  25.OS
GIE COT - JMWVIU  PRICED  1210.07  109J.8  1327.92  100.01 1385.31  123.35 1509.99   8.2S
PNUICAL CONI1NGNIES    BIS    5.43   66.38   5.0  B9.27  6.17  75.0   9.21
PRI CTDEIICZES        166.99   14.02  ¶91.01  13.JS  244.45  20.49 234.93   7.71
IOTAL COIT            1417.01  12E.00 1571.01  119..Z 1690.02 150.00 1340.03   9.11



- 12 -
cost is estimated at W 1.185 billion ($1,391 million), land
development costs at W 370 billion ($434 million), and engineering.
administration and technical assistance at W 20 billion ($24 million).
Taxes and duties are estimated at about W 13 billion ($15 million).
The base cost is expressed in January 1986 prices.   The project is in
an advanced stage of preparation, and cost estimates are based on
detailed designs for the first year of construction and recently
awarded contract prices for similar works.   Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 5X of base costs because of KLDC's experience
with works of this kind, and the programmatic characteristics of the
project. Costs for project planning, design and studies include about
13000 man-months of consultants services including about 40 man-months
of foreign consultants. Estimated price increases over the project
period amount to about 16.7Z of base costs plus physical
contingencies.  Price increases for foreign costs are estimated at
7.2% for 1986. 6.8% for 1987-88. and 7.0% for 1989. and for local
costs at about 4% for 1986 and 5X for 1987-89. Land acquisition costs
are estimated to increase, on the average. by 2 percentage points over
the expected increases in local costs. It is estimated that exchange
rate adjustments would, on average. maintain "purchasing power parity"
during the project implementation period.
3.06      FinancinR Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of $150 million
would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost (8.1%) of KLDC's
1986-89 land development program of W 1.575 billion ($1.849 million).
The remaining cost would be financed by net internal cash generation.
$1.669 million (90.3%). and domestic loans of $30 million (1.6%).
KLDC's total investment program of W 1,827 billion ($2.145 million)
during 1986-89 would be financed as follows: the proposed Bank loan
(7.0%). net internal cash generation (76.5%). land bonds (4.7%).
corporate bonds (5.8%). other loans (4.9%) and equity contributions
(1.12), (Annex 6. Table 4).
3.07     Procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 2.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would
be required for all civil works contracts, about 20. which exceed $10
million each.  As in the previous urban projects. foreign contractors
are not expected to be interested in these works due to the experience
and efficiency of the local construction industry and the wide
distribution of works over time.  The remaining civil works contracts
would be procured under LocAl Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance
with procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and are
satisfactory.   Contracts over $4 million each would be bid among
prequalified contractors.
3.08     Prior Bank review would be needed for civil works *:ontracts
over $10 million. which would include about 65% of the value of all
contracts. This is adequate. since procurement documents would be
standardized in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. and KLDC is
well experienced with Bank procurement procedures. Advance
contracting amounting to about 3S of the value of the project is
recommended for contracts bid after project appraisal.  This would
help expedite the program. Consultants for project planning and
design would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines from a
panel of 16 local consultants who have performed satisfactorily under



- 13 -
previous projects.   In order to develop and retain internal expertise
on institutional and management improvement matters. KLDC plans to
have its staff take primary responsibility for most of the studies
proposed in the PSIDP. with the support of advisors and consultants
where appropriate. Project supervision would be carried out by KLDC
Branch Office staff with general services being provided from
Hesdquarters.
TABLE 2 - PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW: COSTS AND BANK FINANCING ($ Mln) a]
- PROCUREMENT METHOD --   TOTAL
PRCO ECT ITEM:                  ICB      LCB    OTHER         COST
Civil Works. Engineering
and Studies             300         158        -         458
(125)      (25)     C - )       (150)
Land Acquisition and Taxes       -         -       1,391 b]  1,391
TOTAL                          300        158      1.391     1.849
(125)      (25)     ( - )       (150)
a]  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b] Purchased by negotiation based on appraised values.
3.09      Disbursements.   The Bank would finance about 8.1S of the
project cost. To reduce the number of disbursement applications, the
proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed only against civil works
contracts of more than $4 million each. Disbursements against these
contracts would be at 60S of contract cost. This would include about
30_  by number and 75Z by value of all contracts.   The Bank-financed
program would comprise about 40 contract packages varying in size
between $4 million and about $25 million. A Special Account of $12
million would be established to expedite loan disbursements for
eligible expenditures.    Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to
take four and a half years. which is similar to the profile for
comparable loans in Korea.   The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1990.
3.10    Project Implementation.  The project would be implemented by
KLDC with the assistance of advisors and consultants for feasibility
studies, planning, detailed engineering and institutional development.
These activities, and procurement through OSROK, would be coordinated
by Headquarters staff under the Senior Vice-President. who would also
provide liaison with the Bank.  The annual implementation schedule is
realistic, based on experience with previous projects.  Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that KLDC would send to the Bank.
not later than February 28 of each year, starting in 1987. projections
of development programs, project execution, financial projections and
monitoring indicators for the next five years, and within six months
of the loan closing date would prepare a project completion report.
3.11      Accounts and Audits.   KLDC's accounting procedures are
satisfactory. and its accounts have been audited satisfactorily since
1981. The Bank's recommendations tc make these audit reports more
comprehensive and detailed were incorporated it the Audit Report for



- 14 -
1984. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within six
months of the end of each fiscal year KLDC would furnish to the Bank
an audit report of its accounts, financial statements and the Special
Account, as audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
IV. PRiUC JUbSTIICATICU
4.01     Justification and Benefits.  By strengthening the programs.
policies and management of KLDC. the proposed project would facilitate
the development of serviced land throughout the country. thus helping
to alleviate one of the most difficult bottlenecks in the provision of
housing in Korea. The project would supply some 3.700 ha of land in
a balanced environment including well-planned housing sites with
provision for schools and other public facilities. green areas and
commercial and industrial zones. This includes about 1.000 ha of
industrial sites to create employment and promote development. It is
estimated that about 250.000 housing units would be constructed on
this land. providing housing for more than one million persons. About
forty percent of the land developed for housing will be supplied to
low-income housing programs. Given the smaller size and higher
density of these units. more than half of the project beneficiaries
(about 130.000 families or 520.000 persons) would be in the bottom
half of the income distribution. KDC'gs program of land development
will generate an increased supply of serviced land and new dwellings.
which will make lower priced. ezisting housing, available for poor
families, which represent only about 12Z of urban households as
defined by Bank guidelines. The project would also provide
construction jobs while helping to solve housing problems.
4.02     Cost Recovery and Affordability.  The project would recover
all financial costs. including land acquisition. development.
infrastructure, management costs and interest during construction.
Since the housing situation is worse for the loeer-income population.
and since  Governmert vants to balance its financial and social
objectives, KLDC plans to adopt for its overall prcgran the target to
provide 40% percent of the developed land for low-income housing.
These programs provide smaller units. which are affordable to
householdS in the second quartile of the urban income distribution.
Most of these housing units would be built by KNHC. the cities. and
housing cooperatives under Government's public housing construction
programs. To make housing affordable to the target population. KLDC's
policy is to price low-income housing sites at cost, but to charge
appraised market prices for other users.   This would enhance
affordability while maintaining a satisfactory financial position for
the corporation.
4.03      Economic Rate of Return. The economic evaluation of each
site would be required as part of the proposed improvements in site
appraisal criteria (para. 3.04). The main subprojects to be



- 15 -
undertaken in 1986-87 show an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) between
132 and 402.  The cost stream includes the cost of land and
development. and the benefits are calculated by using the estimated
market price for the developed land sold. An analysis was made of the
total land to be acquired between 1985 and 1989. and of the time and
expense required to develop and sell it. The ERR based on the average
unit cost of acquisition and development. the estimated market prices
for land. and the real price increases in land (averaging 22 p.a.) due
to its increasing scarcity. is 162 (Table 6). Sensitivity analysis
shows that if the development costs are 15X higher the ERR is 132. In
the improbable circumstances that the prices for the land supplied
decline by as much as 102. and, simultaneously. the development costs
are 152 above estimates. the ERR would be 52. However. in this case,
KLDC would take corrective action by eliminating lower return
investments from its program. If no increases in land prices are
included. the ERR is 152. The implementation of the social pricing
policy ezplained in Annex 1. would result in KLDC's average selling
price of about 202 below market prices. The incremental financial rate
of return, based on these prices and including tax expenses is 82.
which is well above the real cost of capital to KLDC (Annex 6, Table
6).
4.04      Project Risks. There are no serious risks in the project.
The risk that KLDC may be slower than anticipated in adopting
institutional and policy reforms is minimized by the commitment of
KLDC's management to the proposed institutional programs. Regular
reviews of progress by the Bank and KLDC during project implementation
will help ensure that institutional and policy reforms proceed on
schedule. The proposed implementation schedule is feasible based on
previous project experience.



- 16 -
V. AG_=T    DAC   SAD    _C            low
5.01     Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) KLDC would not incur any additional long-term debt without
Bank concurrence if its debt service coverage exceeds 1.3 in
any calendar year (para. 2.06);
(b) KLDC would review annually with the Bank the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Institutional
Development Program (para. 3.03 (a));
(c) KLDC would apply the agreed criteria for subproject approval
(para. 3.04);
{d) KLDC would send to the Bank annual projections for its
development programs, investments and financial statements
(para. 3.10); and
'e) KLDC's accounts. financial statements and the Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors (para.
3.11).
5.04      With the above agreements and conditions.the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of $150 million, for a term
of 15 yearn, including a grace period of 3 years. at the standard
variable interest rate. The borrower would be KLDC and the loan would
be guaranteed by the Government.



- 17 -                    ANREX I - Page 1
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVEOPMNENT PROJECT
Poliev Statement and Institutional Develoyment Prograug
of the Korea Land Develoyment Cornoration (KLDC)
A: Policy Statement
Backzround
1.       Land is a very scarce resource in Korea. Therefore, KLDC's
policies aim at enhancing the productivity and utilization of land,
improving the living environment, and promoting the public interest in
terms of land use and ownership. RLDC has achieved a remarkable degree
of growth since it vas established. In terms of physical achievements
it supplied about 3002 more land for urban development in 1984 than
it did in 1980. However, Government's plans for housing and industrial
development, included in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan (1982-1986) and the proposed Sixth Plan (1987-1991),
require that KLDC further expand its capacity to develop viable sites
for these purposes. The success of these plans and KLDC's role would
largely depend on the Corporation's ability to increase its
productivity and efficiency.
2.        Accordingly, KLDC is undertaking an intensive effort to
implement improvements in several areas within the next few years. In
1984, KLDCSs Board of Director's approved a Long-Term Management Plan
(LTMP), which was prepared with the assistance of consultants and
advisers from universities and research institutions, to guide the
operations of the Corporation during the period 1985 to 1991. This
plan is now under implementation aud will be revieved and updated
periodically.
KLDC's Obiectives
3.      The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) was established
in 1979 as a public sector corporation to contribute to national
economic and social development and to increase the supply of serviced
land in urban areas by acquiring and developing land for sale and by
promoting better and more efficient use of land. These objectives are
included in the Korea Land Development Corporation Law of December 5,
1978.
KLDC's Protrams
4.       The following five programs comprise KLDC's main activities:
(a) the Land Development Program to supply serviced land for
housing, commercial and industrial development;
(b) the Urban Renewal Program to promote city center
rehabilitation on a pilot project basis;
(e) the Land Transactions Program to buy and sell idle and vacant
land;



- 18 I-h                        .1 - Pasge 2
(d)the Institutional Developsent Program to improve the
Corporatioo's productivity and efficiency; and
(e) a data bank and research on land price statistics.
5.      KLDC's policy is to implement its programs in accordance with
sound management and financial principles. It operates under the
overall direction of Governsent's land and housing policies and the
related Lavs and Regulations. Its LTNP has been designed to fulfill
the land development objectives of the Fifth Five-Year Economic and
Social Development Plan and the proposed Sixth Plan. KLDC also intends
to improve its managesent efficiency and productivity through a
specific Institutional Development Program to be implemented during
the period 1986-1988.
Corporate Manaxement
6.      KLDC"s policy is to manage its  functions efficiently, paying
particular attention to program and project planning, financial
management, staff training and research. KLDC will adopt technical
innovations, such as computerization of financial systems and will
emphasize the development of its human resources to achieve better
efficiency and productivity. In particular, in the area of program
planning, KLDC vill prepare revised programs to reflect changing needs
and priorities with annual isplementation plans and budgets.
KLDC's Social Obiectiv
7.      LaDC'. policy is to fulfill Governent's economic and social
objectives in the housing sector. KLDC is an important part of the
Government's plans to provide affordable housing for the urban
population. These plans require KLDC to provide an adequate and
timely supply of serviced plots for the public housing construction
program, which is implemented by the Korea National Housing
Corporation, local governments and the private sector. These programs
are providing smaller housing units ranging in size between 45 and 85
sq. m. that are designed to be affordable to hnuseholds between the
25th and 50th percentiles of the urban income distribution. In the
past KLDC has supplied about 301 to 401 of the land developed by it
for housing to these social housing programs. KLDC's policy is to
target about forty percent of its anually developed housing land for
public and private housing construction programs serving low income
households. KLDC will mocitor performance on this target on an annual
basis and make appropriate 3djustments to its land development
program, as necessary.
Proec_t Selection and-FeasibilitY
8.       Demand. KLDs policy is to continuously monitor the market
demand for serviced land country-wide and adjust its land acquisition
and development programs to meet assessed demand, minimize the use of
resources and provide a solid financial position to the corporation.
KLDC has commissioned a study on the availability of and likely demand
for land for urban development on a city specific basis. The results
of this study will be available early in 1986 and will form the basis
for improved planning of the geographical distribution of the



- 19 -                    ANNEX   - Page 3
Corporation's program and a better assessment of the marketability of
specific sites.
9.        Financial Viability Rnd Economic Justification. KLDC has a
dual responsibility to undertake projects which provide both a high
economic rate of return to the nation and sufficient financial return
to maintain the viability of the Corporation. Success in achieving
both of these objectives depends largely on the process of selecting
sites for development. KLDC's policy is, therefore, to fully analyze
all candidate sites, taking into consideration their technical
feasibility, marketability, profitability to the Corporation and
benefits to the national economy. This KLDC policy will be implemented
by:
(a)  strengthening the economic and financial analysis undertaken
as part of the feasibility study for each site in advance of
the decision to acquire the land;
(b)  improved planning, design and construction procedures
for site development, which include land-use planning and
standards and specifications for the provision of services
with a full study of alternatives before detailed design;
and
(c) minimizing the elapsed time between acquisition and sale of
the serviced land by, inter alia, entering into
collaborative arrangements with private sector developers.
Pricin2
10.       KLDC's policy is to balance its social and public service
objectives with its financial viability and development as an
autonomous Corporation under the Government-Invested Corpotations
Management Act of 1984. KLDC implements this policy by selling the
land it develops for the public housing construction program, for
public facilities and for industrial purposes at the estimated cost of
development and land for other purposes at appraised market prices.
The Corporation intends to review the methodology and data used for
the estimation of costs in order to assure the accuracy of cost
allocation used to fix selling prices and identify and distribute
costs on sites where some plots may be sold at an early stage of
development or where there are significant costs not directly related
to the sice or not primarily benefiting the buyers of the developed
plots.



- 20 -                    ANNIEZl - Page 4
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B: Institutional Develonment Protram
1.        KLDC's Policy Statement sets out its basic objectives,
policies and programs. KLDC proposes to implement an Institutional
Development Program in the following important areas to increase its
efficiency and productivity and fulfill its mandate.
2.        Cornorate Planning. The basis of KLDC's programs is its
Long-Term Management Plan (LTMP, 1985-1991), (LTNP), approved by its
Board in 1984. KLDC will update the LTMP periodically, concentrating
particularly on the next five-year segment of the Plan. The annual
targets, particularly for the Land and Institutional Development
Programs, vill be revieved annually by KLDC, with the assistance of
advisors and consultants, as necessary. The updated programs and
financial projections for the next five-year period will include an
evaluation of performance over the three previous years and a forecast
of KLDC"s financial statements.
3.        Financial and Economic Evaluation of Sites.  In order to
assure economic and financial viability KLDC vill reviev its present
site evaluation techniques, with the assistance of consultants, and
develop and adopt an improved methodology for estimating the financial
viability and economic justification of each project by December 31,
1986. A project will not be included in KLDC's program if it fails to
meet specific minimum financial and economic rate of return criteria
without a special justification being submitted to the Board of
Directors for approval. This methodology would require estimation of:
(a) the cost of financing the acquisition and development until
the finished plot is sold;
(b)  the increase in land values due to development;
(c)  the effect of rising land values due to inflation; and
(d)  the opportunity cost of capital.
4.        Physical Planning. At the level of the individual site, KLDC
analyzes factors such as location, the availability of main services
(water, drainage, electricityi transportation, etc.) and of public
facilities (schools, hospitals, etc.) and assesses demand and
marketability, before deciding on the feasibility of developing a
particular site. KLDC proposes to review its present experience and
practice in this regard and develop, by December 31, 1986, a set of
criteria for locational and physical characteristics of proposed sites
to improve this aspect of its site selection process.
5.       Financial Manasement. KLDC's past and planned development is
impressive, with annual investments increasing almost 10 times between
1980 and 1986 and land supplied increasing 26 times over this period.
KLDC has thus become one of the largest corporations in Rorea. To
provide a solid basis for future development, KLDC would undertake a
study to improve its financial management, and corporate planning, and



- 21 -                    ARM  I - Page 5
to strengthen its management information systems. This study would be
completed by June 30, 1987.
6.        Pricing.  KLDC sells the land it develops for the public
housing construction program as vell as for public facilities at the
estimated cost of development  and land for other purposes at
appraised market prices. Since KLDC derives most of its revenue from
"at cost" sales, the accuracy of the calculation of "costs" is
important. KLDC will undertake a reviev of the procedures for
estimating "at cost" selling prices and of appraising 'market" prices
for individual sites as part of the reform of its financial planning
mechanisms. This review will alsc include a cost allocation study
which will investigate how costs should be assigned within a single
site: (a) when the average cost pricing system results in selling
prices higher than market values; (b) when some portions of a site are
to be sold at an earli-r stage of development, such as the proposed
collaborative development with the private sector; or (c) when there
are substantial costs that are not directly related to the particular
site. Such a study would be completed by June 30, 1987.
7.       Staff Training. KLDC presently has programs for training its
staff in Korea and abroad. In keeping with its objective of securing
and retaining highly qualified professional manpover and increasing
staff efficiency and motivation, KLDC proposes to build and establish
a new Staff Training Institute by December 31, 1988. KLDC will employ
consultants or advisors experienced in this field as needed to review
its training needs, and advise on planning of the proposed training
institute. The consultants' review will be completed by December 31.
1987.
8.       Comnuterization. KLDC proposes to establish an in-house data
processing center and use computerized systems including accounts and
payroll, with requisite hardware and software. KLDC also intends to
introduce micro-computer hardware and software for financial
management and program and project planning, including the production
of an annual corporate plan with projected investments and financial
results. KLDC will employ consultants or advisors experienced in this
field as needed to review all aspects of the data processing center,
testing and purchase of computer hardware and software, and staff
training. KLDC will then establish a computer center by June 30, 1987.
9.       Performance-Oriented Goals and Budgets. KLDC has started, on
a trial basis, introducing performance-oriented goals and budgets for
selected work units to increase staff motivation and efficiency. KLDC
intends to review its internal budget systems on the basis of the
results of this trial and will prepare recommendations and guidelines
for further implementation. This review will be completed by December
31, 1987.
10.        The above Institutional Development Program would be
implemented as part of the IBRD-financed Urban Land Development
Project during 1986-1988 and the reports and recommendations of all
studies would be sent to IBRD vhen completed for review and comments.



- 22 -                     Annex2 -Page I
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sector Ornmai -tiou
1.        Legal Fr8mework. Housing production in Korea, like the
overall economy, relies chiefly upon private corporations and
individuals freely conducting business in the marketplace. However,
the Government is directly involved in land and housing development
and providing financing to the sector through the operation of three
public enterprises and one fund. In addition, it has enacted 15 main
lava regulating housing and urban land development (Attachment 1), and
as many as 70 lava which directly or indirectly relate to the
purchase, transfer and use of urban land. The multiplicity of
interest and the complex legal and regulatory regime make the
development of new land cumbersome for the private sector, and even
for the public sector.   The overall framework for bringing new land
into use for urban services takes into account not only the needs of
housing and commercial and industrial users, but recognizes the
importance of protecting both agricultural land and the environment.
There is now concern that the application of the laws protecting
agricultural land and green belts may have become a barrier to the
efficient supply of land for urban activities. Policy-makers have
embarked upon a gradual reviev of this matter, and a study is being
prepared by the Korea Institute for Human Settlements to search for a
balance between these concerns and the need for an orderly, efficient
urbanization process to satisfy the housing and development demand of
the population.  The solution to these conflicting interests in land
use is the application of economic pricing, to determine the cost and
benefits of using the land for agricultural, industrial or residential
purposes.
2.        Private Sector.  All housing units constructed in Korea
(222,000 in 1984) have been built by the private sector. Special tax
and financial incentives (mainly the exemption of land taxes for the
construction of units smaller than 85 sq m). have been established for
large housing developers, designated as "Government Builders", and
'Registered Builders". "Government Builders' are firms capitalized at
more than $0.6 million each, building at least 240 housing units in a
three year period and employing at least six registered engineers.
The 64 "Government Builders" producad about 17% of the housing units
in 1982. The 1,400 "Registered Builders", which must be capitalized
at more than $0.1 million each and construct at least 150 units every
three years, produced 23% of the housing units in 1982. Although no
tax or financial incentives are given to the 22,000 other small
builders, they were responsible for the construction of the remaining
60% of housing units in 1982.
3.       Housinz Institutions.  The key public institutions are the
Housing Policy Review Committee (HPRC), the Ministry of Construction
(MOC), the Korea National Housing Corporation (tRNC), the Korea Land
Development Corporation (KLDC), the National Housing Fund (NHF), and
the Korea Housing Bank (KHB). Some urban redevelopment programs and
the rural housing improvement program are under the Ministry of Home
Affairs (MOHAW. The Ministry of Defense also provides housing for the



- 23 -
Ajge 2 - Page 2
military and for veterans.
4.       Rousing Policy Review Committee.  The HPRC was established
under the Housing Construction Promotion Law, and is composed of
twenty members, including representation from the Economic Planning
Board (EPB), HOC, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), KLDC, KNIC and the
private sector. The HPRC reviews and approves the Annual Fouling
Construction Plan, which establishes the number of units to be built
under the management of the public sector, including the distribution
of sizes. The preparation of this plan is initiated in September and
approved in February of each year.
5.        Ministry of Construction.  The HOC is the main agency for
the sector, responsible for policy formulation and regulatory
functions. The MOC's Housing Bureau is responsible for formulating
and evaluating housing sector policies and regulations. It also
prepares plans such as the Annual Housing Construction Plan, and
oversees the operation of the NHF and KNIC. MOC's Land Bureau is
responsible for studying aud monitoring land development plans, and
formulating land policies. The approval of land acquisition for
public use and the oversight of KLDC are also handled by this Bureau.
6.       Korea Land Development Corroration.  KLDC, the borrower for
the proposed project, was established in 1978 as the successor to the
Korea Land Bank and vas given a broad mandate to develop land for
urban and industrial development. KLDC's main priority is the
development of land for public housing programs. Otber objectives and
functions include the development and sale of land for private
residential and industrial use, the acquisition and resale of idle but
already developed land, the reclamation of land from the sea, urban
renewal to promote the rehabilitation of urban areas, and the
development of new cities and towns.   The Government-Invested
Corporations Management Act (1984) gives KLDC increased autonomy,
under a Board of Directors appointed by HOC. KLDC's Management
Committee includes the President, the Auditor, the Senior Vice-
President for Planning and Finaucz and three Vice-Presidents
responsible for Land Acquisi-5o03, Housing Site Development and Special
Projects. In addition to the Seoul-based headquarters, there are 12
Branch Offices controlling 52 site construction offices. KLDC's
organization is shown in Chart 1.
7.        KLDC had a staff of 959 persons in 1985, witb  about one
third located in the headquarters offices in Seoul. Considering
planned increases in productivity, KLDC's staff is expected to remain
at about 1,000 persons for the next few years. About 316 persons have
professional degrees, and about 71% of them have received overseas
training, many of them in special training programs developed in
cooperation with Harvard University. KLDC is responsible for the
initial technical, financial and economic evaluations of sites, vith
subsequent detailed site planning and engineering being carried out
with the assistance of consultants.   The structure of KLDC's
organization and the quality of staff are good.  Bowever,  the
financial and statistical information systems need updating and, since
the basic information is prepared independently at the Branch Office
level, better coordination is necessary.  KLDC also lacks the
computerized accounting and planning systems expected in a corporation
of this size. Management is aware of these shortcomings, which would



- 24 -                     Annex 2 - Page 3
be addressed  during project execution  through  staff training,
consultant assistance to strengthen KLDC's financial management,  and
the computerization and standardization of all accounts.   The
financial Analysis of KLDC is presented in Annex 6.
8.         Korea National Housing Corporation, KNUI  was established
in 1962 to implement the public housing programs, specifically for low
and moderate-income persons. KNHC's main activity is the country-wide
development of large-scale housing projects consisting of small-
sized units.  In 1984, KNIIC constructed cud sold 45,000 units, almost
20Z more than the annual average of the previous five years. Because
direct construction by the private sector has been growing slowly,
UNHC's share of total housing construction has increased slightly from
14% in 1980 to 17% in 1984. Almost all housing units built are
apartments, ranging from 30 to 80 sq m. To make public housing
attractive and affordable to lower- and middle-income buyers, KNUC has
concentrated in the lover end of the market, and the average size of
units constructed in 1984 by KNEC was 55 sq m. The size of the minimum
unit is increasing slowly over time to match the demand. KNEC's main
sources of financing are borrowing from the NHF, foreign and local
loansand down payments from purchasers. KNHC's policy is to recover
all direct and indirect expenditures from sales. All units developed
by KNEC are eligible for long-term but limited financing, either from
KHB or NHF, depending on the size of the unit.
9.         Housinx Finance. The formal housing finance system is
underdeveloped compared to the size of the Korean housing market, the
size of the entire financial system, as well as to the potential
demand for financial services. Since the establishment of KHB in
1967, only 7% of the value of all new dwellings, or about 15% of the
number of units constructed, were financed by mortgage loans.
Although the total system has expanded rapidly, making loans for 26%
of the value or 78% of the number of new units in 1984, the average
loan covered only about one-third of the value of the units purchased.
The balance of funds required is obtained from personal savings,
gifts, informal borrowing (including the curb market) and the sale of
a former house or other assets. The costs of the informal sources
have been considerably higher than the interest rate carried by a
formal mortgage. Almost all long-term financing is provided by two
government-owned institutions, KEB and  NHF.  Together they provided
88% of the total formal lending for housing in 1983, which Was
W1,111.6 million. The remaining 12% was loaned by six insurance
companies, two pension funds, and one other commercial bank.
10.       IRB is a specialized bank under the general supervision of
the MOF and was established to mobilize deposits, from which it raised
75% of the W 907 billion mobilized in 1983. The remaining funds come
from loan collections, accrued interest on deposits and one-half of
one percent from capital contributions. Eighty-three percent of Krs
loans in 1983 were long-term mortgages for 20 years at a variable
interest rate, starting at 11.5% p.a. An additional 5% of lending was
for housing-related purposes and only 12% for regular commercial
activities. The total amount of ICI's loans to the housing sector in
1983 was li 500 billion ($640 million). KIB is financed from deposits,
housing installment savings, debentures and national and foreign
loans.



- 25 -                    Annex 2 - Page 4
11.        The NHF was established in 1981 to raise funds and
facilitate finance for the Government's public housing construction
plans. The NHF is controlled by MOC, but its day-to-day operations
are carried out by KHB as a separate activity. NHF was separated from
the KRB's other activities facilitate the mobilization of public
resources for the housing finanr2 system. This is reflected in about
one-third of the W 926 billion mobilized in 1983 being from tax-like
compulsory purchase bonds. The remainder of its funds was mobilized
in a manner similar to that of KHB. Most of the funds (92Z in 1983)
are allocated to financing the construction and purchase of public
housing by local governments (40%), housing cooperatives (2%) and KNHC
(50%). A small portion (8%) goes to registered builders for
construction of units of less than 85 sq m for low- and moderate-
income families. The loans are payable in 20 years at a variable
interest rate, presently set at 11.5Z. To ease the burden on low-
income families during the first fev years, a graduated monthly
payment method has been adopted since 1982.



- 26 -
Annex 2 - Page 5
MAIN HOUSING LAWS IN KOREA       Attachment 1
DATE      LAW                 PURPOSE
3/11/58   Construction Enter- Licensing of enterprises and engineers.
prise Act
1/15/62   Land Expropriation  Use and expropriation of land for public
Act                 projects.
1/20/62   City Planning Act   Regulates city planning for construction
improvement and renewal of cities.
1/20/62   Building Act        Regulates the use of buildings and struc-
tures.
1/20/62   Korea National       Establish KNHC to supplyandimprove
Housing             housing for low-and moderate-income
Corporation         persons.
6/3/66    Land Readjustment   Regulates the process and procedures for
Act                 land readjustment.
3/30/67   Korea Housing Bank  Establish KHB to mobilize and allocate
housing funds, and stimulate private
participation in housing.
12/30/72 National Land Uti- Regulates national land utilization.
lization Act        lar-d dealings and changes in land utili-
zation.
12/30/72  Housing Construc-   Promotes and regulates the construction.
tion Promotion Act  financing and management of housing.
12/31/76  Urban Renewal Act   Regulates urban renewal programs.
12/10/77  Environmental       Regulates hazards of environment'31
Preservation Act    pollution and preserves natural and
living environment.
12/5/78   Korea Land Develop- Establish and regulate KLDC to increase
ment Corporation    the efficiency of land use, through the
acquisition and development of land.
12/31/80  Land Development   Regulates the acquisition. development
Promotion Act       and supply of land, to increase land
development in urban areas.
3/5/81    Residence Lease     Regulates lease of residential Proper-
Protection Act      ties.
12/13/84  Rental Housing      Promotes and regulates construction and
Construction Pro-   financing of rental units.
motion Act



- 27 -                     ANNEX 3 - Page I
KOREA: URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures and Policies for Site Selection and Pricing
1.       For KLDC, the most important activity in determining its
success and financial viability is the selection of sites whicb can be
profitably marketed when development is complete. The policy for
establishing the selling price of serviced land is also central to the
Corporation's ability to financially sustain itself.
2.         Site Selection. KLDC's program  size is determined by
reference to variou. national plans (see Annex 4). Sites are
identified throughout the country by KLDC on the basis of criteria
vhich allocate sites to regions and cities where housing conditions
are poor and where there is likely to be demand for additional
serviced urban land. An ongoing study, being conducteu by local
consultants to KLDC, has developed a framework which will help
determine where the effective demand for serviced land is likely to be
strong and which includes an extensive survey of the availability of
sites suitable for development by KLDC. The results of this study will
be used to improve KLDC's procedures in this area.
3.        XLDC's 12 branch offices are responsible for identifying
candidate sites, which are then subject to prefeasibility studies
before acquisition begins. Once a positive prefeasibility assessment
is made on a particular site, KLDC must submit it to MOC for
consultation with other ministriea to be "designated" under the
Housing Site Development Promotion Law. "Designation" also permits
KLDC to exercise acquisition procedures contained in the Land
Expropriation Law.
4.      Present Prefeasibility Study. Candidate sites are presently
evaluated on the basis of their physical characteristics, the status
of housing within the city, and estimates of the financial viability
of the site. There are two important aspects of this analysis where
the underlying assumptions need to be reexamined. First, the cost of
the delay between completion of development of a site and sale is not
explicitly calculated, although KLDC continues to incur costs until
the site is sold. Second, in the absence of prior knowledge about the
share of land which will be sold "at cost" for the public housing
construction program, all revenues are forecast at appraised market
prices, overstating the financial benefits to KLDC.
5.        Recovering the cost to the Corporation of the funds invested
in projects has not been a problem in the past, because land price
increases have exceeded the cost of funds. Although average annual
price increases in land are still greater than the cost of funds, the
trend is toward a considerable slowing down compared to historical
rates. Serious consideration is now being given on how to relax some
of the constraints on the supply of land and housing, including some
modification in the implementation procedures for the agricultural
preservation laws and the general regulations governing changes in
land use zoning. Over time, changes in these regulations could reiieve
some prcesure on the land market and reduce the historically high
rates of real increases in land prices. In contrast to appreciation



- 28 -                    ANNEX 3 - Page 2
rates in the land market, real interest rates, presently about 8%, are
at high levels. These two factors in combination, slover land price
increases and high real rates of interest, could weaken KLDC's
financial position. The second problem, concerning the method of
estimating the expected revenue for KLDC of site sales, has not
resulted in difficulties in the past, because the "market-priced"
portion has generally brought higher prices than forecast. In a
market of slover land price increases, relying on strong appreciation
of the value of land and quick sales may be riskier than in the past.
6.           Improved Economic and Financial Analysis.   The
prefeasibility study can be improved by applying the model suggested
below. There are four basic variables for vhich information is
required at the time a site is being considered:
(a) the acquisition cost - based on appraised values, and the
percentage to be paid in each year;
(b) annual development costs during the development period,
based on experience with similar types of works;
Cc) selling prices based on the appraised current value for
similar developed land in the vicinity, along witb an
estimate of the probable annual increases in land prices
during the development period; and
(d) estimated percentage of the developed land which would be
sold "at cost".
7.         The proposed new economic and financial analysis is
summarized in the attached Tables 1, 2 and 3. This analysis was
applied to the main projects to be implemented in 1986-87.  The
economic benefits for projects are valued by taking the appraised
market price for all saleable land. The calculation is made assuming
no real increase in the market value of land during the period of
development. If the economic rate of return (ERR) is found to fall
below the minimum acceptable level (11z), a computation is made of the
rate of land appreciation in excess of raw land inflation which would
be required to obtain the minimum acceptable ERR. A sensitivity test
is also made for the best estimate for land price increases and for
the possibility that the actual selling prices are alternatively 10%
and 15% below the projected level.   Even if the project is
economically justified, the viability from KLDC's point of view should
be calculated as a financial rate of return (FRR). The FRR differs
from the EnR in that the benefits are valued at the estimated actual
selling prices for the various types of land developed within each
site. Thus the FRR reflects the fact that KLDC does not receive the
appraised market price for all plots on a site. All values ~re in
constant prices.



- 29 -                    ANNEX 3 - Page 3
8.        Project Evaluation Criteria.  In order to be approved for
inclusion in the KLDC land development program, a project should
comply with the following conditions:
(a) a feasibility study should be carried out for each site;
(b) the ERR should exceed the opportunity cost of capital,
estimated at lIZ ;
(c) if the ERR is less than lIZ, the rate of appreciation in
land prices in excess of raw land inflation (i.e. the
measurement of benefits) to raise the ERR to 11Z is to be
calculated and it should not exceed the expected trends in
land values for the prospective site; and
(d) the minimum FRR should exceed the average cost of funds
to KLDC, presently estimated at 5Z in real terms, and, if
the FRR is lover, a calculation should be made of the
present value of the transfer payment to KLDC vhich would be
required to bring the FRR up to that level.
A project will not be included in KLDC's program if it fails to meet
the minimum economic and financial rate of return criteria without a
special justification being submitted to KLDC's Board of Directors for
approval.
9.        Present Pricingt Policy.  KLDC utilizes two reference points
for determining the selling prices for developed land. Residential
land for the public sector housing program and housing land sold to
private contractors and individuals who agree to construct houses not
larger than the maximum for the public program (25.7 pyong) are priced
'at cost". Land for some priority industrial sites (i.e. to relocate
polluting industries) and for public institutions such as schools is
sold on the same basis. Residential land fvr larger houses is offered
for sale at its appraised value, which is determined by the Korea
Appraisal Board or independent private appraisers with reference to
prevailing market prices. Land for commercial uses is sold by auction
to the highest bidder with the appraised value being the minimum
acceptable bid.
10.       The cost of a specific site is estimated about one year
before the project is scheduled to be completed in order to prepare a
sales announcement. The "cost" is computed in three parts. The first
part includes all direct payments to former land owvers, contractors
and other parties such as surveyors and service utilities. Second, two
types of overheads are added to the total. KLDC first estimates
assignable operational personnel costs, which are calculated as a
percentage of all direct development costs each year and aggregated as
a separate charge against project expenditures for each year that the
site is under development. The second component of overhead is based
on a forecast of otLer general and administrative expenses, as a
percentage of direct costs for the year in which the project is
expected to be finished, and is multiplied by the entire direct
project costs plus the first overhead. The third element of project
cost is an estimation of the cost of capital invested in the project
during development. This is computed by inflating all costs to the
expected date of completion at the prime commercial bank lending rate



-30-                      ANNE 3 - Page 4
prevailing throughout the period.
11.       The total cost of a site is applied to the total saleable
area and the "at cost" customers are charged the average coat per
pyong for any plot(s) they may buy. The actual sales method for the
"at cost" land is to announce the availability of a site about one
year before completion and to specify the selling price as of the
expected completion date. If the actual sale occurs later than the
completion date no adjustment in the price is made. Although some
buyers are asked to make partial payment in advance, no discount is
given for prepayment. KLDC also provides limited financing for some
purchasers and charges those vho use this facility the prevailing
commercial bank lending rate.
12.       Improved Pricing Policy. The present methodology computes
the costs in a manner which has permitted KLDC to recover its full
costs from "at cost" buyers in the past, but which should be modified
to take into account changes in the market for serviced urban land. If
the rate of increase in land prices continues to fall, indicating
less vigorous demand for developed land, KLDC needs to review its
pricing strategy to assure continued full cost recovery and good
marketability. First, a pricing model which explicitly considers
variations in the selling date should be used. The beat method would
be to extend the charge for invested capital to the actual selling
date. It would also provide an incentive for buyers to take up the
land as soon after completion as they could. Second, the assumption
that there will always be a market for "at cost" sales may be upset by
the present practice of charging average site development costs to any
plot within a site. KLDC's main public sector clients, particularly
DNEC, also have the ability to acquire and develop land independently.
If KLDC sites were not attractive to these clients, and they declined
to purchase even a small number of sites, it could create a
significant drain on KLDCs finances. It may therefore be necessary to
consider allocating costs vithin a single site in a manner which takes
into account the actual cost differentials vithin a site and the
likely large variations in market values once a site is complete. This
would avoid the situation where the calculated development cost is
higher than the market value for some plots. A study could also be
made as to vhether costs could be allocated to specific plots in
proportion to their projected appraised values giving the purchasers
of various "at cost" plots a similar ratio of cost to market value.
This has the advantage of providing an incentive for buyers to take
less attractive but cheaper portions of a site. There is also the
need to study the allocation of costs to specific plots when site
development includes significant expenditures for facilities or
features which will serve the entire city, or even the nation, rather
than just the purchasers of the site. Finally, if some plots are to
be sold in a less finished stage in the future, (as proposed in the
plan to enter into collaborative development with the private sector),
there is need for a careful analysis of how to compute the costs and
selling price for such less finished plots. These issues would be
analyzed under the Cost Allocation and Pricing Studies (Annexes 1 and
8).



- 31 -
KRA- UNMu        rn    ni                                                 *    3W   - TALEI
MM PO TM FDIICUL AMU          WGCDD5ON P LAW3 UWlLOPNSl 3IWN&NCT
W DUFA M18 MD2 AUTOMM  PO TM E VIULAMIOF TM1  VUEON    MM1
win                                                  orsA.    1905    iou    qw       ISSS    iu       ISum     ua       Iou   Isn   IN
Dpur OATna
ALL VAUE  WUU IN PUZP                1385SO
u Ina  DZMiur Ral PC1 *_ruin                              5 te m     7.0  NIOT      LAW t    cor  ; .,0
_IZCA c         1g23 (.  OAu.wsir UUI                 16.0        1 NMUEIW  03SF P T_. ,331             5.01
TOtAL  2Eh1TML  AWO   W  tOD100 P                 1012.17                  111.19 1032.7  103.0   126.04   131.7    100.85  0.3  tS3
TEAL WE OF NITU   (bFALLY at 10              15s.0
rr o arn
13r Pls  AWO        KTIO  1000 P0 W  O                             W.0
LAW A ZUZlTU. MILLION e33                                 MM
U10 OE       _,.wNir I= Po f WW.O                         170.0  sa7.0
US OE0      O    MIL .LIO  WO            13m               00    14M_2
2S0 AlOg    LAW      U      O 1000 1W               1130.0            V7.0  557.0            90.0
MIEN      LOD6 AIUZITIPO.MILLION -                  67830           i3U3   1305             21100
PPAM      ILo o _WLrWN. 10 P0                      1106.0                           230.0  214.    10.0   10.0   131.0
L_' OE.IT    MILLION                     51052                           12131    13134    a3m      NA    0315
E362lMBm  UO OEN306 Miuw Van                          2140    3so      34    713               713
LAWVDALEB IN THOUSA   D                             TOrAL      -         E3TDIATUD    S  LE TlOESM   PF
omre1tL                                      10.3%  127.01                    11.    2.0a7   3.05   30.13    13.34    7.4  7.15   4.7
I 4at1s                                      OJ01    0.00
R_1de.tlat Luod std at ivet prices           4.27  503.0J    0.00    0.00  105.07  76.30   B.         0.02    65.81    50.28 34.67  40.76
eld.MltoL Land  W  at Cost                   4.21      .OO    O.      0.00  105.07  73.00    3.3      0.02    01.8    50.=2  2.7  45.7n
Pt la Louu *eld at Cost                       9.01   30.50                   12.0    4.3      4.24    3I7    12.10   10.53   7.3I
WTAL LuA  01                                100.01 1119.73   0.00    0.00  224.71  103.07  135.24   15.00  157.20   119.00 84.04  3.23
ATED            VALUE O          Pr  PM LD 
Ls0 Purca                         Raw             WO AD            AT Cur   UAin      O
PrI            INMETl            SALES      JI  SALES
VOWPr           W.LLJ            WWPY   RILL.W
omm11et                           0oo0               03aao          500000  3230m   24.71
Industriat                              0               0                0       0    0.5
beldentlet. (at mikst pri    10000                   31035          13000   11015   35.1A
bAld@atl   (at Cat)                13000             3oD            160313 31103   25.31
P,Litc Lod (at Gms%                i00W0            10110          1l0313  10340    4.
TOTAL                              212=30           211             21427  2O7074  100.5
15.Dgr-o



- 32 -
AMEX  - I TUIt
EA -  woID oe W Pr
mOL ML Po TIN PD1ZAL A   MEMM EALDm    O LAW SSUIUI  UImUT
AMXSME OF 31A AM  ZDOICOVI3 POE TIE VUUU amIT  PM6135
iUD.   ism        13N   low    133    1W         11O      136      136    Sm    in
LANUMT1.                                           0.53    U3A74.73    5.53100.0s  m    IM   G  0.03 G.0=  0. 0  0.03   0.45   5.1
-  AUl   L        ACID UMITION& AIOWL  U OF C        155.53    0.63    U.S   24.0    5.05   41.15        aim       O.AS.   5., 5.05   0.1
TItER      LA  O     H_W I                          10.53    0.5        0.05    5.03   ai3    IM       16.5   135        1.s   0.0    O,.
MT PwIo  LUACD MS3TMv lif PMM  UoUIYS  o 77                       5    7072       5       a        5    o        o        o      o          t
-O PLU. USIO33    977                5   117434  4123        a   570          5         5       5      a      C
unT PR    LAID o _r,OPM         137911*11. WS O      226 0  3     5 23112 O n    04  .   O                  a        a O            5      C
m  ,14AM  VwVP s    .3u                       a      s    134   4mo  o    sio          a am        o           c
TOTAL LA  ACISZTI   IWO PT                          1773.55    5.55   674.oo  357.00    5.00  513.5      5.0    o05 .o    o        .5o o  .oc
TWAL LAID DDROPNO3U. 1555Pf                         *no1773.55    5.    170.05  47.05  30.00 214.00   1am 1o     a       131.55   o5 o.oc
TWAlL LI SOLD (15O 5f,  mm01                105.0C 113.7      0.00      0.00  34.7   1.07  1U.3    135.J5    I57.5   113.55   4.64 NUJE
Latd laid St Cat3  1000 Pp                 47.    138       0.00 .     .55  113.05   31.21  3u.77    73.73    77.33   30.37   aim  11.76
La nd *ott a    r3e   latin  Im Pi         83.15 03m.00    0.00    OM   116.73  1*0.87    3.U         a6m    73.2   56R 41.31  11.33
PUJCI CI.Es   '. iut1va Lead cqauisition. 15o PI                  a      174    1       153     1        1        t773    17  1776  177   1776
*uOmu&at_vt La  S t p., 155 Po                  0      170    ea      317   131        1412    19S      1773  1776  1773
onstti veLd LW , is. 0Py                       a         5    35    4O        Su   rs            31no0   1553   1113   IM
3 Daaiapae  of Laid Acquired                 CAN    r.S   47.73   7.53  13.33    73.            05C  105.05 15.053 100.0
3 lId ot Latd DeavoPed                       O.53      0.03 4o.OZ  11.1   47.53   UoS    57.13    W65    3.73  67.3
TOAL nrWE.TMW, fulID  W
Land Acqusition                              52.  ¶10322         0    am 111     57       a  2110e          0        0       0      0      0
Lad Onvonopmmt                               37.S   7134         5      9ON   14M    1303   12134        mm4      N4       318      0      0
blala rfng &  Oemign                           1.13    2140    3D5       26      712S      a    713         a        0       0  °    °
PhWloat Cmtirvauciaa                           3.7%   7103        0        O   1477   134   1213          us       Ws       132      0     0
COateuut1an lanwq_t                            4.53   3126       13     2353   255      7      117        AN       A3       117  o         0
TWiAL  1E57MCfT, nIO  SOm                    105.03  131s 4    333    5717  220   157    41141           31       II       3u        a  00
ldautaL lat" at Nvkart. 3HtL, n Vat            3W.13   SI535               0  11312  12311   1161G    12114    11356    3556  3245  722
C.nrclaL Saa. NILLian Wm                     13.23    200        0         a   urn   1        Ia       1O0N        m70   370   27    2315
Irdustrl  SLes. ILLIon Wmn                     0.0       0       0        0       0       a       0   0         0        0       °     O
SAL  AT 343E? PRmCEru  NILLI  KW              44.dB 154125       5            247U7  23216  W2          23      16926    10205  0S   72
Avarsga larlkt Price Van per Pp                     1523         5         0 1177 1On3m0  214177   16115    115322  1230 141951 119260
AaidantieL Staa eat Coat. mNLLin Von         23.33   nD130       o        e  133    1204   11357    1229        11012   o352   233   7O
Pui*Lc Ltd lAtes at Coat, ntMon ten           20.4  1024A3        0        0    2233    773    737      1W5       2135    1315  137         a
TOrAL SAL  AT CsT. NILLION WM                 u.    1036          0        0  21332   113    124    12338    1110 t1001  7335   731
TOTAL LAID 0O1t3                             150.53  31164        l        0   3W72    35    45073   334   3232          24    1745  17503
1 35



- 33 -
ANNEX a - TAU a
&MA - Mu U               PW PrW
MM. MM. rm  TMu F        UA.I   -   mu       AUUMR   OF uiin OMw Pwu 1mwu_
sziwgzai. aim  uCONONc IWUTR   OF TI YE           GTM.
thitos Themesui %urs Ne bre ITUN), NitILim Wm (3n
[al      lIO    IC)       IOI     [El      IFl      la)      am)      III    IJI     1K1      IL)       in)      IN    (a]
Ywre    Land       be:    Lad  Devlop- Enri r Tot   Total  tee... 35t1_m    To1tL    tt   Oet at' lvmnua Fin1ancil  be
_1ui-    of  Deelop-  set    1q a    Land t          t t I'm    amta t_rAn. b_         ne-   ts  La  fr tro      _ runam Fimnial
1tlm      Lan    sae    Cst        Owe.-  _top.   lan        lant      lae *1e I      ale    eeLs- pabLia  ftr C _ 1awfite
_MI red                    hed    Cut              at mitet  sid    lnd  9wents  pod            Land            ftp KLOC
Priem   et bet  VaLtu              tand     sates
units   To                T                     TM -  11              11                              Vq m       11       SW      S
1_n         O                s O             m    m    a O                       0.   0 -   iOu O                     Wn-M
13o       am4   Iag        001     OODO    J17    53711         0        0       0        0 41717    5n7            0        O -65717
1aw       1rn      7      *m      173    .             inw    77*    2477 2o mM                        i           m WM  213 n 7A    4052
1U           0       0    `1l1    T3US    I14       IBM       i      3335   14117  040   37414   5WU1   1431    415  170
1_         1M   aii0    Ir4n 13,134                                                           _t Ui O 5 m  31    137  0011    -0031    eW  124U4    40073 -574
ISS          0       0     am      1164    1135      SON      BA5    I1U0  lI1U   1111         m1      SAM      1W131  1034  175
11           0       0     gm      Wm4   r1e15       gm       51     1_021   1_09    3=0   323111   O03         1410      13o
131          0       0       7     3MO  1U0          Wm04     MM    130    1017   317   Iou            SorA       rn   24i   1442
ISO         -s       a       a        a   0             a     277      Mg5    701   171    174013    50M         73      1740  17410
1354         0       O       O        a        a        U     gm      OM1    7330   17017   177    W5            710    17000 17000
TOTAL       5gt    10t        5ul   7104   1111    111134    1nu5   154115          103O  11 U           50315   10141   27074  514
LN AC       . ODEVELOP  AMIO5Ds
Aop.elztl        OovoLnopset     Land EeLLe
Lat Are - T31                Sil               5m               353  Ietms La nuAd me *  of Ud sequl red            v7.1
avere Price be'.  a         1735             1BM              1411 buinet Prefit Nbigin lexcLudleg interet    34.15
a03r O  LAS  Xt DIOC0Sr NATE I         7.0       P1139   VALLES
Pr_gent Valu  of Tott Cbt IFI V Mi Llions             14154
Pesne Valtue Soat  L Latd  (GI. touamnd eq *            270
l3ig1.L Cost to SLUC. VIn per eq a of sowebLe Land  5WO   in costant prices of          1335
EcONo   AcAMLYSM                                    No Snero-         If Land         It Rae           rt If SooL
sa In           Prices            are              are
Prices          1neroee             10.               15.06
of Land mld            21S p.o.    Impe                t_wr
III Reenoic rate af  Aura of the project las            13.38            14.25           11.1Y             7.50
(21 The financial rte of return ftr LOC is:           1¶.53              22.13           11.               7.63
131 To achiee at lesat an  conmic ret. of return of 107 Lend m*le. rsvoferss    ehoad be Incr.e_ed         0.0O
141 The financeil rturn should be higher then           7.03 or  OC  ould reqire  aeidi" of V WilLion                  0
to  fineme          0eY  of the Investent.
1]  Cost of seteable. developed Lad in   133  conetont prices.
At * ret Internet tdiecount) bta of          >           5.0              7.05            3.OS              1
Peent VLue of TotaL Cost IF]. V MiLions               1so007           14D214          1JW00              12910
Presant Value SoL_ble Lad (lO. thouand sq a            3002              2705            2443               2219
NargtnaL Cost to KLDC, Van per eq a of WioLai Land  53072               54                t10              58M1



- 34 -                 ANNID  4- Page 1
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVLOPMEMEN  PROJECT
K.DC's ProRrams and the Proposed Project
1.        KLDC is one of the largest public corporations in Korea.
Its development plans are based on Government's targets under the
current Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-
1986) and the proposed Sixth Plan (1987-1991). These targets have been
included in KLDC's Long-Term Management Plan tLTMP. 1985-91). which
was developed with the assistance of advisers and consultants from
local universities. research organizations and government agencies and
approved by its Board in December 1984. The LTUIP describes the main
activities as follows:
(a) Land Development with two separate components:
(i) housing site development; and
(ii) industrial site development;
(b) Urban Renewal;
(c) Land Transactions; and
Cd) Institutional Development.
Land Development Program
2.      The Land Development Program is RLDC's main activity. Under
this program. unserviced sites within municipal boundaries are
identified and requested for urban development (see Annex 3). After
statutory approval the site is purchased. normally consolidating many
small properties. the land is rezoned and planned in accordance with
the local City Master Plans and national planning regulations and
criteria. and a development plan including feasibility study and
detailed engineering is prepared. The main development work includes
site preparation and provision of infrastructure (roads. water.
drains. sewerage. etc.). Site planning also includes serviced plots
for the associated community facilities (schools. markets. shops.
parks and playgrounds., etc.). Between 1982 and 1985. KLDC supplied
about 2.580 ha of serviced land country wide for urban development.
with total investments of about W 798 billion (71Z for land
acquisition).  Between 1986 and 1989. KLDC proposes to acquire about
3.640 ha of land. and supply about 3.760 ha of serviced land with
total investments of about W 1.575 billion ($1.849 million). which
indicates a considerable real increase in the unit cost of land. The
two components of this program are described below:
3.       Housing Site Development. KLDC's main objective and major
priority is the development of residential land for the Public Housing
Construction Program (PHCP). An annual housing construction plan.
based on the current Fifth Plan. is revieved and approved by the
Housing Pol4cy Review Committee (HPRC) under the Chairmanship of the
Economic Planning Board OePB). The President of KLDC is also a member
of the HPRC. The housing construction plan provides annual targets



- 35 -
ANNEX 4 - Page 2
for the construction of housing units and housing site development
;treas and allocates shares for public and private sector development.
The PHCP also sets targets for the share of the output to be
accomplished by the public sector.  KLDC prepares its annual housing
site development plan based on the approved housing construction plan.
Table 1 shows the annual master plan targets for housing crcstruction
and housing site development under the Fifth and preliminary Sixth
Plans.
4.       Low-Income Housini.  PHCPs are the main instrument for the
construction of housing units for lower-income homeowners with units
being designed to be affordable to urban households between the 25th
and 50th percentiles of the income distribution. Planning and quality
standards, including maximum unit size and land use per unit, are set
by MOC's Housing Bureau and incorporated into KNHC and local
governments' detailed designs for each housing site. Generally.
public housing construction sites are planned for population densities
of about 110-160 persons per ha (pph) in semi-detached. single-story
core houses. 120-220 pph in two-story row houses and about 260-540 pph
in five-story apartment complexes. Land use planning normally follows
the criteria shown in Tables 2 and 3.  Housing sites are planned to
accommodate a range of sizes and types of housing units.  In 1985. a
t3pical unit of 50 sq. m. was sold for about W 13.5 million and was
affordable to the 20th percentile. Unit sizes range from 30 to 85 sq.
m. and are distributed between single-story semi-detached core
housing, two-story row housing and five-story walk-up apartments.
based on demand surveys and sales experience in each locality.
Generally, at the site planning stage. KLDC and potential PHCP
developers agree on the location, extent and service standards for
each site. The site is then planned based on the local demand
projections. costs, physical characteristics and city master plans.
KLDC plans to allocate, on average, about forty percent of the
developed housing sites for PRCP developers. Developed blocks of land
are handed over to the respective housing developers for housing
construct_on and provision of tertiary infrastructure to each plot.
Depending on its size a housing development site would be fully
developed with public housing 3 to 5 years after the land is acquired.
Typically the hou8ing construction is completed 12-18 months after the
developed land is supplied.
5.      Middle- and Upper-Income Housing. KLDC also supplies a minor
part of the developed land for private sector housing construction,
which largely serves the income groups over the 50th percentile.
These sites are sold at appraised prices. However, since demand
normally exceeds supply. a lottery is often required to allocate
available sites.  Housing on these plots is constructed by the
individual owners, following local building regulations, and using
small building contractors. Typically. housing construction is
completed within three years of sale of plots.



- 36 -                    ANNE 4- Page 3
6.      Program Size.  Between 1982 and 1984. public sector housing
construction accounted for 38X of the 687.000 new dwelling units
built.   Virtually all housing units. including the public sector
units. are constructed by private sector builders with about 20.000
small builders producing about 602 of the total.  During the Fifth
Plan KLDC would supply about 3.950 ha (24Z of the total housing site
development and about 562 of the public sector site development
included in the PHCP). During this period. KLDC would supply about
43Z of its housing sites to KNHC and about 92 t- other PHCP
developers. Total housing site development includes small infill
sites and individual plots which are already serviced. Practically
all large parcels of new urban housing land are being developed by
KLDC, KNHC and local governments. During the Six Plan (1987-1991).
KLDC's plans to supply about 3.3C0 ha of newly serviced residential
land.   This constitutes about 17S of the residential land
requirements of the housing construction plan. or about 31% of the
requirements of the PHCP. KLDC's planned program is consistent with
the Five-Year Plan targets (1987-1991) for KLDC. Tables 4 and 5 give
details of KLDC's actual and projected physical development and
investment programs between 1980 and 1992.
7.      Program Distribution.  The annual targets of KLDC's plan are
distributed among the nine provinces and the cities of Seoul. Incheon
and Busan based on an analysis of the economic situation  in a
particular municipality or locality, the housini needs. the
availability of suitable sites and the HPRC-approved housing
construction and housing site development plan. Normally about one-
third of KLDC's program has been in the three major cities but in 1985
the share reached almost one-half due to the development of a large
site in Seoul (Godak). The balance was allocated to other regions.
varying from 3% for Kangweon Province to 122 for Kyeonggi Province.
8.     New Town Development. From time to time  .DC is designated by
the Government as its agency to develop new cowns or expand an
existing town area. At present. KLDC'6 Land Development Program
includes the development of two large sites within Taejeon City: one.
the Daeduk site designated as the location for many research and
academic institutions. and the other. the Doonsan site for expansion
of the city's central area.   These two sites would provide the
serviced land for housing. commercial and official construction
required to decentralize, from Seoul. selected research institutions.
government departments and agencies. The Daeduk site is being
developed with acquisition having started in 1984. and site
development would be completed in 1987. Plots are being paid for in
advance by the institutions transferring there and are urgently
required by them. KLDC awarded one contract for this site development
under normal LCB procurement procedures through OSROK. The Doonsan
site. after its five phases are completed, would provide about 790 ha
for administrative, commercial and housing purposes and is presently
scheduled for completion by 1992.



~ 37 -                   ANNEY 4 - Page 4
Industrial Site Development Program
9.       KLDC. at Government's request. undertakes the development of
specific industrial sites to implement industrial and environmental
policies.   The only important project under execution  is the
development of the Namdong Industrial Estate in Incheon. which would
provide 900 ha of serviced industrial land for the relocation of
selected industries from Seoul. Land acquisition would be completed
by 1987 and development by 1989. Stage 1 of this site is under
development and feasibility studies for Stage 2 are now being
undertaken. Housing requirements, complementary to this industrial
site, are being provided in an adjacent 590 ha housing site
which is also included in the program.
Program Implementation
10.     Site development work is contracted to registered civil works
contractors on the basis of competitive bidding. Bidding and contract
award are carried out by OSROK on behalf of KLDC. Contract execution
is the responsibility of KLDC's Branch Offices. whose technical
divisions have experienced staff for this purpose. A development
site is supervised by resident technical staff reporting to the
nearest regional Branch Office.   Typically. KLDC takes about  12 to
24 months between approving a site and gaining its ownership. KLDC
awards contracts and develops and supply the land within two to four
years.
Urban Land Renewal Program
11.      This program, started in 1984 or a pilot basis. is designed
to find solutions to the problems of substandard service levels.
overcrowding, fragmentation of ownership, and lack of planning in old
neighborhoods.   The program is expected to demonstrate the viability
of redevelopment of old areas. and to provide for improved land use
adequate service levels with suitably planned and constructed
buildings and proper environmental conditions. Under this program.
fully rebuilt sites, including buildings. would be sold by KLDC. Such
a program, if proved viable. could become onc of KLDC's main
activities. which could also include upgrading of older housing areas
as an alternative to demolition and rebuilding.
Land Transactions Prosram
12.     During the 1970s. investment in land was more attractive than
most other investments. Many enterprises owned scarce urban land.
unrelated to their business-related function,. which was left idle and
used only as collateral for bank loans and guarantees while land
prices appreciated rapidly.   KLDC was given the responsibility, under
the National Land Use Management and the Capital Region Improvement
Planning Laws, to redeem such idle land, not only to provide liquidity
for the enterprises, but also to increase the supply of urban land.
This program enables KLDC to continue the "land banking" functions of
the former Korep Land Bank which it succeeded. Under this program,



- 38 -                     ANNEX 4 - Page 5
KLDC purchases and supplies undeveloped land for private sector
development in tailored parcels at stable prices. In 1982. the peak
year. KLDC supplied about 5.030 ha of ordinary land to the private
sector. The program has now stabilized with KLDC planning to purchase
about 200 ha of land under this program. Tables 4 and 5 give details
of this program.
13.       Although the above programs constitute the bulk of KLDC's
present activities. and would continue to do so for the foreseeable
future. the LTMP envisages that the Corporation should explore
possibilities of engaging in other activities aimed at enhancing its
impact on the urban land development sector. KLDC vould. as part of
these initiatives. formulate a long-term master plan for reclamation
of marginal lands and tidelands and prepare a program of land
reclamation and development. In the initial phase, this would involve
the study of foreign experiences in this type of activity and the
development of strategies for large-scale land reclamation. A local
research institute has been engaged to make the necessary preliminary
studies before formulation of a plan for this purpose. KLDC also
proposes to establish a research capability in all aspects of land.
including a comparative study of land systems in major countries and a
data base of land prices and statistics.
Institutional Development Program
14.       To improve its productivity and efficiency. KLDC plans to
implement a program of institutional improvements.  The institutional
development program is fully described In the PSIDP and in para. 3.03
(a).  In addition. KLDC i£, also looiring at other longer-term
objectives in the following areas:
(a) improvements in organization av! management systems. and the
introduction of management-by-objectives;
(b)  strengthening  of human  resources by improvements in
personnel   management. recruitment. staff  training   and
motivation;
(c)  introduction of new technologies. including economic and
financial investment evaluations. standardization of design
and construction techniques. centralized computerized
systems for payroll and accounts, and microcomputer systems
for planning. evaluation and management information; and
(d) improvements in public relations and customer service.
Project Description
15.      The proposed project would support KLDC's Land and
Institutional Development Programs between 1986 and 1989. These
programs are described in paras. 2.03 and 3.03. The areas to be
developed and supplied each year are shown in Table 4. while the
respective investments are shown in Table 5.



- 39 -                    ANNEK 4 - Page 6
16.       The project description is presented in para. 3.03. The
annual areas to be developed during the years 1986 to 1989 are
detailed in Table 5. and the project investments are summarized in
Table 7. Tne financing plan. and project implementation. including
procurement and disbursement arrangements. are described in paras.
3.07 to 3.10.
17.       KLDC would employ the services of local consultants
experienced in urban planning. landscape architecture and engineering
for project planning and design and, as necessary. would employ the
services of research institutions and universities and specialized
consultants to prepare its overall plans and review its systems and
methodologies. It also employs qualified professional land valuers to
appraise land prices before acquisition and sale. These consultant
services totalling about 1,000 man-months are estimated to cost about
0.3% of annual program costs. In order to develop and retain internal
expertise on institutional and management improvement matters, KLDC
plans to have its own staff take primary responsibility for most of
the studies propos-ed in the PSIDP, with the support of advisors and
consultants where appropriate. These studies and engineering costs
would be indirectly financed by the Bank loan, which would provide
disbursements only for large civil-works contracts.



KOA
AlU  4 - TAKE I
UFlM LAND OEVELlENT PROJECT
MASTER PLAN FOR PUSLIC HOUSIING DEVELOPENT IN KOREA
ORIGINAL    mVI;    ACUAL  PRELIMMIY
PLAN      PLAN      RESULTS  PLAN          -      REAL
182W9-    192-U    ¶98-IS  1987-91         1992     1962    1984    1996       1993    1987    1986       19e9      1990    19
NtUER O  HOUSIING UNITS (THOUSA)
TOTAL IWJSIW  umrrs              1460       1417      1417     1760       191      226      270     320       400
BY PRIVATE SECTOR Cd                       907       907      750       123      144  1SJa  18 0            10
BY PUILIC SECTOR                570        S10       SlO    1010         Is       W       110     1S       20
S B  PULIC SECTOR                39.03      43.01     43.01    57.41     35.6    26.3n    40.71      8.m    50.
HOUSING SITE DEVELOPIENT ITHOUI SO IETERSI
TOTAL HOUSING SITE  WPLY       202480    198930   1188   19a9S          32120   a2648    3968    34160   26041   32633   27610    26119    3264   as422
BY PUILIC SECTOR             124         929       93487   10521      18390    18439   25389    19770   11490   209         21443    21734     21879    M470
Kara. Land O.votIpu.nt Corp.           47800    39491   32194        9515    7786    7321    s9es        6m       6774    7742      BSe        US=        0
Karen Obtlnurt Housing Corp.           13049    19049   21109        1103     9640    7948    3300       28       4740     457       497      4014     7480
Laccl Gover.ntg                        35880    3597    50218        7272    s11o   10400       SP7I    2157    lUll    9124        a"4               14910
BY PRIVATE SECTOR            158919      72101     72101    6197      14C0    14410   14220    1480    14561        aais.  16177    16395    160        115
a          I
I BY PUBLIC SECTOR               44.51      57.92     58.41    57.01     56.01    8.11    63.3n    57.91    44.11    57.01    57.01      57.01    57.0    57.a4
I BY KLWD ON TOCAL                0.0       1. 21.n   23.n    17.41    2s.n 9      3.73    16.4a    1.13    24.11    19.n    20.61       23.n      5.1n    o.0s
S KLOC ON PUBLC                   0.0       49.21     42.21    2o.61     4s.31    42.21    29.9    48.       14.71    32.n    38.11      40.7     45.O     0.01
AMEA PER HOUIN  UNIT (8S  Ml      193        119       117      106       172      146      147      104       05



- 41 -
KOMa                                                     aI 4 - TAM I
* *'                        ~~~~~CRITNI PM LWO  W1 PUN
sr~~~c                                 ain w   tuum
UTATIff                                            PUISEI  COTERIA
AvhtmtaeturelI         Ur     r       Zu       Lot Ui.    1bi Lding           Vat_       House Tne       Let Width      Lot Oa
£ Huasing Wnatuuetien                             join)         btle I       bie 3                         (win]        p.r bit
Ormn               100 sq...   2 0                U      O        sm         ) Urn.    U  sJ.tin.
Po. Arm              90 e.A.   J0                300         ha             >  10*.
Ila. Arm           330 s.A.         0           300     4rtmnt              > a D.    1UuEU 1No.
Cam. Ar_           330 *q...        70           10i0
City Ptelmaing Lm             red btle          TettL    bmin beda         F_ar _e
CLed Clsemifiatin                                  I               S 
Pon. Am            20-V             5-6         l15
Cm. Arms           2&07            10-15        10-U
lid. Arm           10-00           "aO           50
bsd Widths          rter1eiaL  bed-             bduim            ItLl
Haejr          i1ner         Rad          PAd
_.  .
lot. CLm                        35-40 a.      20-e   .    10-12.
2nd. CL...                      305 ..         1540  .       510 E.
3rd Clm                          25-30a.       12-tS  .      < US.*
Rod &pcing
mtnmm SIJor Rodse                             10°  a.
,oteon IbJar and Minor Arterieal               500 *.
Ht_U*n Minor Arterlsto and Feaders             250 *.
Betwen Feeder Read.                           3040 e.
Phx. Length of Feeder red                    120-150 a.
Housing Construction         -     On Site Rosdo-          -     Accsee  Rbd s-
RguLattons                     Ibumeheida     bed Width    HlusehoLds  boed width
nudor]        (miniumi       (numbosrl    (minimumi
< 100         4-.
100-300       6a  .            <300         6.
300-00          B *.          300-100       10.
500-100          12t          500S1000      tZ *.
>1000          tS l .         >1000        11a.



-42-
KoIMA                                        A       4 -TAINA 3
Uma LAW Oru.lPW PWUUC
KLOCU _ UTT PUhDI            A1 UU    WUUS
Vj FACLrf                         TY"              01Lm -i  Tiwp-
ommerel  Fe1eILiite    fter.              t1 iD. U0                                 4A                     0.3 84udwim t
ba1iq Cuter                U100-    .                                                    10 1  .q.
ftdmt                                                        300MM~~~~~~~~~~~~SSIOS sq..
er eewr 50110 units
"mmraa ta IAm wits
ampr bibs* IWr S fish.)                                                          IAOE Imite
11d tlens1 Fee11itle    Klndrmrts                    11241            Q              3                   Pt srund )Um  sq.0.
EtLntery beseL              EU-OUD           -               I                   PIa _su  )1M_ sm.
C     _eram >U a qaj iete
b1tdii     rati <
_1nar high Oebeul                     I per tne msigbbl*rnr     units            PLeurdf    U   sq...
Cleewarnm >U  mqnJ.I
Bm1tlJt llttlo < AN
baer MNgh Basol                       I per 2-8 nslgtmrhobbi  uite               pl"Feani 001110 sq...
Cle__rsm Mm mqwfJolme
lortlemoL Arms   PIsgeme10 250-400                                  U              4                    MI    s...
b1g11b.rhed PErk             100   0         1  I            I                      I   q..
be  Pla sm                                    I 
Others   Outer. Offiee                 04000            1              1
Wblig                      10OO55            -               t
bery beeoL                  3O0-SO           1               2
a     PN WU
B-beigb-   1t1m _s
PepulAl1en Dniulty             CLseelflastion                      bmarhsudm s     h1541_
Persois per me                       'SO-0 uite                                     uit.
Dateehad Hbuae            Le  Density        120            110
Hbdim  Ownst      140            130
High Osne1ty      1S0            tSO
am ba_                    Lm  Dens1ty       150             120
High Density      210            200
Apartmsnt                 Ln Density        300             2SO
Hed1im DOen       420            350
High DOne1ty      540           4d0
Land Ub  rstle (3)             CLseutficet1nn      Re1sdsnt1lL   Ceuere1eL       Gresn Ars       room _larks
by Nuu   ypc
Oatachad NHose               70-6H0          25             3-7         15-J5    1
be "eu"                      50-60         "-1O            3-t0         1S-2     1
Aperti_ rt                                                                       I
3-5 Strory    50-60         5-10           5-10          15--    ] Subbnghbourhouds
6-10 Strery    50-60         5-10           10-15         15-15    3 500-600 Hbuu hoLds
>11 Storey    50-60         5-10           15-20         15-U 
Dstachad Houus               65-70          5-15           5-15         tS-5    3
be "men                      40-65         5-15            5-15         15-U
Apersment                                                                          N olhboeurhoede
3-5 Oturay    40-50 1-                     1041S         I 5-U      20003000 HeuSeelMds
"-10 Stersy    40-5          10-20          15-05         15-0S    ]
>11 Sterey    40-5U         10-20          1541          15-45    ]



- 43 -
KOWA                                                              A5     4 -TAM  4
LID UTLIW IN TMQ MUM  mm
P1_mp.14                          am        a          m    am    1M    am    lm    11_   am   almo   amm tm                                      am
A. LD UhLOMNY P_WII
15.A*1  aCMJSMmi                msa        mm        sam      ,en0      "as   aIV"a5               ls ammam  maca      1      11as     lani    aimI
Toult fr Num.lq               im         0a40     Ina        e         im      am       m01    m 0   urn7111       env      no      a04       atD W
or wich u ProJmsZ  ii3      sa        AN        mai       as         na                                                   n
or o,g.h PrJ_et t1           _     T            la"      m2a       01a3   1
For Ind u t lal at.            mm         i         m mm                       6m       am       SuS     2341
2A.1*6D DEn IMENnr              gms        mm        on       7a        7273     7512      mmd4   lao1      min m170    u      mam      a5a.    aml
For "molaq                     m         am       me0    7275        M7        um  *71a         m        am1s mm   7isi    aI        m.4  alams
or h1r1h P,oj.t I                     Is"       .me      am"         17
or whueh pem_t 1I                                         mla       1a12    sim       Ina
For Indtutielt Mtie          mli         mi        a         a         is2     21m      2t3    3mm       2Ma       am       u0S         a         S
D.UIANLAWluma.                      a          a         n e                a e  e,7    .1S                    am       a2       an        as        a
Compensation                                                             U      U
a1swtd    Ceotenotle. Arm                                                                17       13 a     a        as       12        la        to
C. iMlIZS. ImALCr=P LAWn         altO      3aa       MISS    7sa         38mi t            200       I ss  am Io iIU   m       am        aIms      am
TVrAL LWO PRCESE                 gm        m a    ms  a111 2n0           tun    Vaim        1401a   21u3    20M      Im       NMI       2t20S  2:1W
e. LAND 8sUP.PL
DUME¶2LM   LA   EI9LIn   e 320   *417                78m      am        AM       70311  em        1mu       mid    tmam       mIM7      94        gm
Foe Rowing                       S      a37m       m       eM         M       AM       6110n    mAe      aa        7mu    Mues   am ne         ma
Of elote Proje  t                       23a      a2a     IU        1172      m
Of  eich PIJect II                                         la       a7m     nt12     137S
Foe IdmtelL Sit"               3t5         el      WI    3172         il       .ia     31as    4e4m    3313       2.14    14e1        351         a
52.m1 ELPUD  O'WTON                                                                                           24       15                 d5        74
u3.TRAW.ACTTO  LaS0               ma3      3Mm      em        70c      ammi    aaa        3a 1    35s       35s      30m      3me0 35ee           mass
MrAL Aim mSLPPED                  m         4A2M   4753   13n74         lvii    mama    1n07    a3m1i   amaim   am13m    as m           12M       134aS
11 Project I Is the flret 1tienaL Ueue Lnam Develeg    t and HMeuing Project (Leon 1Iss-UI. Project U1 I the S d Notiobtmnal U*een Liwd e
Heusino Project (Len 2215-052
15,-A  S



- 4.4 -
KOF"                                            JWO~~~~~~~~~~~MSW 4 -TAMS 5
m           warn W PUAcr
Zlmis   MS s.Y  t 11  IILtU  'sl 1
m_som ar1_n_m                   U t_       m      tISM     IM       IN&      1r    ISM       1ow     IM      tar      low O      r      INS
A. US 0W W    PR_    _        4.1s 11 3V     lU.74  13.M   IU.US   ont.    MUy    m 1 4                   Mv33   543.70   135.0    743.301
M.u's    aZirs"n            laj      tajig    main  r00.370  I .1,  v7.1m  unuu   m 4 3ta.126   7.ua  49.n1  Inawo  00.70n
or w1e Pojms 2          4.3  001 n.13    17.J    1.1W        1.7    1.3
mc  *   "an  zz                     M.i.t aa.m   Sm    1A.3a  um.87
ft  Dawsla ffs            7._0       AA       0.177    §J17    6.114  SnXW  n1.05  01.0          n.00    0.000    DOOO    0.00    l.Bl
hA.UaA OMLMrn               14.711    B.arM   m.        4.107   51.705  7a.t   at1.U0    at.44 .   OJ*.1   0.124  107.701  I0.4t  IU8t
Per                       *-7J t.79     t     1Uat    44.270   44JuI   40.u3  r.mw  7wJu.M n a..1m  71.m   aa.70S  12.22   tu.uit  13.57a
orf I^%^ pvewJI i         .m       u.M     t7.M   00.72      3.3       .1a    O.UtS
or *F PraJmt i                              0.U    7.J      10.77  ¶1BJM1    2.s .
For Iu*jtauI  una         sing      st.tiu    1.t4    O.m      4.31    fin   1o.e4t   M.674  U8.673  t4.4tr   s.022    0.m0e    0.m0
B.  UMAS LAWe miss.           uj.        .m0    0.01 0     .0.  t0.349   7.3.  13OOO   8.560   7.000   7.J           7.7.     8.m0    a.d
Cas_~l"                                               0i       J14.     ?.00    O.00
btdiUl  bans_tft  Ann                                          0.117   O.Ms   .mOO    u.u       7.000   7.3W    w7.w2     a.m e      .4m
c. amUS. T'AArM  utA         29.u4     3.7w0   10.m 7      .7WO    11s.4.5  1t.1  .t O D 4.0m.  s t rat9  03.uw7  OSMa        M.4A     W.421
O. 0MC WN r a  IImwm                                      3aim     4.174   n.a.    5.178   6.436    8.738   5.61   *.A        7.3      8.407
mIvAL imanau r _PAM          MuA    OM           1.M 5 .1117 22a.mu  3w.w4 43.14    .1.1 401.374  17.7'  53m.748  13.07  710.75t   mam
TOTAL UIimIW  Ml XILLIm    IN." t 4    336 .       r.42 13 1.4. t    4=7   44.71   457.7u   4a.37  r2.5w  u.J38      M 71.46    min   07.07
O.  wle MUPZ.
m.Juuw '  wLeN                4W1    IOJm.mm   MR.u      3.1 ata7m2 I t.730  243.31   AM.0O  431  4.w7 514.3W   SO.m   a4.um    010
Per  *aq                  *.ttt     3.7w   120.13   9.004  36.43   tJ.U  3244.600 243.00  30.711 4453.2   517.01  62.43   00JU0
m ur*      PUUjtt I               n.f    81.734  438       166.042  21.36
or *blo ui.je.  ox OAua   43.C2   0.707  37.011
For 1r_U6511 SlYm         4.3o      6.741   11.902  21.3   11.235   57.110   0 n.00 1t02.00   4.230  *.912  42.20l   11.14         0.0m0
u-.min UROlDS                                                                                     1t.U7  35.780              "4.90   43.153
na.IM1s1crIO LAW            1420    mNJ        t3.9m   us.m2  110.00 112.243  5W.0W   M.13   50.331 w.665  31.412    M.   70.242
TOTAL We SUPLY               td.ut    D7.D0O    3.134  200..74  22.726 3S7.JU  43S.US  s7.J7   63.305  ns.so  65.44    .13D    33.333
ta-a.'.-



- 45 -
KOREA                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 - Tom1 a
LISfIWI  Mg UIMI  136_ lIlE P                -  |_UU            I5T|E lj0
UTIL.    It          13W      i"       1
LI3uIZUTRONmiom  a                 m TMi             i11i   guT   SU u
Fe. MUM =.                    33670    9610       960    mm6       8711
For  _ra                     now      GOOD1    GOO       72110    wig
For Initrial Siam            7r61   .3275       2115    lii         0
LIA 031m11                      so"    7m   103   3176  m97
For Imetsq                  2713      74S       Um               72
For WatreL  ite.             10i764    5t14      W       ai0       1
LAID UPLY                       .765      0222    1047      3034    3_96
Feor lat.g                   16-    5132        614     1m       6774
For   .tr.iOl Mas            12372    3100      44       21 3     1S 014
AM_ 4- TAE 7
-M LAO    -    PAU  - P:r COW
-    -3LZ  1101-              I of     -    .L1ON UM   -                   -     ILL   U
Leatm    Foreign   Totet       Cot  Loal.  Foreign  Tolt                    196     low      13        1
LE  AChITI                    m.02                 318.01    74.4  1122.719          1132.19      0.     4 2.64   217.14  200.17    216.4
For "Ma1lo                 310.4               110.40    11.3  103O.35            1014.13    O.O  313.2    M.13   23.31   316.4
For laImwtrIet Otta         77.12               77.31     5.3    33.20              01.20     O.5    2.32   123.41   2I.51       0.0
LAW    O    _WEWfl            119.4    1043        324.12    24.5   W13.37  t18.3   259.22    32.33   WA.    92.1 1 17.97    s1.1
For Ibmatrg                173.12       54       11.33    19.5   196.02   01.34  132.35    32.3Z  9.64    3.360  90.51          73.05
For zaduat.lat Sit_         4.31      21.14     W.A       4.011   10.28   24.02   74.V2    32.25  1.96    17.06    l3.01        12.1
ENIUEE         & AIIINZ3TMT    11.S1       3.2    1t.45        1.25   13.13     4.40    17.9     21.5   4.35    4.A        4.4       4.5
3W  COt - JAVW9M  PAZCI    1t11.07  l0O.SS   1327.3    100.05  13S5.31   15.35 1503.9             3.21  340.3    3A.t5   31R13    412.00
PRWAL t00C713361               36.3        5.4a    Be.3       B.i    36.27    6.17   79.13        3.5   17.43    13.14   13.11    30.0
PK=    EII,,n_35              191.96      14.02    131.0     12.65  21.45   20.43  211.32         7.73   8.70   4.50 s     1.01    124.73
TOTAL COr                    1404.01    121.00   1579.01    113.33 109.02  190.0O  164.02         0.13 275.31  42.3S    1e2.o       .72
19-et-



- 46 -
Annex 5
URBAN LAND DEVELOP-MET PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SC E     2DLE  11
(US$ Million)
1ank's  Year and  -  DISBUSEME-TS -         DISBDURSERMT PROFILE -
Fiscal  Semester
Year     Ending  Semester Cumulative  Korea's  Korea's   Project's
(General)    (IDF)
31-Dec-86    12        12        2.01       1.0S      8.0Z
1987 11 30-Jun-87     3        15        7.0S       9.02     10.02
31-Dec-87    18        33       17.01      26.0S     22.02
1988   30-Jun-88     20        53       31.0S      46.0S     35.3Z
31-Dec-88    21        74       47.OZ      67.01     49.3Z
1989    30-Jun-89    24        98       62.02      83.01     65.31
31-Dec-89    24       122       74.0S      94.01     81.32
1990   30-Jun-90     15       137       85.01    100.01      91.3%
1991   31-Dec-90     13       150       92.0               100.0%
1 1 Includes the initial disbursement of $ 12 million for the Special
Account
12/1986       12/1987        12/19AA       12/19A9        12/1°90
T   aXseF'  Cw 1 o_ n        2
ad S-             _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _M   ________4



-7ANB 6 - Page I
RM  LUD DRUM          POJET
Finanial and Xca  ic Analys-i
KLDC's Post Financial Performance
1.       With a paid-in capital of W 229 billion (in 1985), KLDC is
the fifth largest government-owned corporation and the thirteentb by
number of staff. KLDC is ovued by the Government (91Z) and the Korea
Development Bank (92). Its authorized capital is W 500 billion ($568
million). KLDC has been growing rapidly, and its total assets
increased 12 times betveen its establishment in 1979 and 1984, from
W 76 billion to V 940 billion.
2.         KLDC'a financial performance during this period of
exceptional growth has been good (See Tables 1 to 6). This is a result
of increases in land prices, whicb averaged 7% pa. above inflation in
the main cities between 1980 and 1984, and high demand for land as
well as adequate management, proper control of expenses, and efficient
execution of projects. KLDC' net income has been positive and
increasing continuously since 1979, from W 6.5 billion in 1980 to
W37.1 billion in 1984 and W145 billion in 1985. KLDC had a solid
financial position in 1985, with net profits before taxes of W 166
billion, equivalent to 362 of its equity and 45% of its sales. These
profits are, however, partially due to inflation since the cost of the
developed land (which was purchased iAnd developed some years before)
is not adjusted with inflation. KLDC's debt in 1984 was higher than
its equity (debt-to-equity ratio of 1.3), but was reduced to 0.9 in
1985. Its debt service coverage is good (2.7 in 1984 and 5.3 in 1985)
and its internal cash generation, net of debt service, provided W 311
billion (73% of its total investments). KLDC received the best
evaluation among the 23 Government-invested corporations in Korea in
Korea, mainly because of its financial performance,
3.      Government equity contributions were very important for the
establishment and initial growth of the corporation. Equity
contributions peaked at V 70 billion in 1981, but have diminished to
W 40 billion in 1982, V 20 billion in 1983 and W 15 billion in 1985.
The development of new towns, in particular Doonsan in Taejeon, would
require additional equity contributions estimated at W 20 billion.
KLDC's investments increased from W 62 billion to W 427 billion
between 1980 and 1985, totalling W 1,610 billion during these six
years. However, forty percent of these investments vere to purchase
already developed but idle land, which was being held by industries or
individuals. This program of land transactions was established to
reduce land speculation, improve the cash position of industries
holding this land, especially during the 1980-82 recession, and
increase the supply of urban land for housing. The program is almost
completely financed by debentures or equity contributions. KLDC issues
two types of land debentures: (a) land bonds paid to landowners, which
carry an interest rate of 8% per year and have a maturity of two
years; and (b) general bonds for idle business-owned lands, which
carry an interest rate of 7Z, payable in five years upon maturity.
These interest rates are somewhat below market rates, but are



- 48 -                      ANmEX 6 - Page 2
attractive to land owners, because they are exempted from capital
gains, and land and income taxes, and because these debentures can be
easily traded in the marketplace.
KLDC's Future Financiml Performance
4.       KLDC J_quires land and sells it, after servicing, at a price
which recovers all costs and, if possible, makes a profit. However, it
takes up to four years between the acquisition and the supply of
serviced land, and, like a private developer, KLDC's profitability
depends on the success of the individual development sites undertaken.
This is influenced by factors such as location, development potential,
the efficiency of development, the time required to sell the developed
site and the prevailing market conditions. Therefore, KLDC's viability
and financial results in any given year depend upon having correctly
selected and evaluated sites four years before. The PSIDP includes
criteria for individual site selection and evaluation to minimize
potentially unprofitable sites and to achieve full cost recovery. This
would provide better tools to judge the profitability of sites, set
pricing policies, and establish procedures to calculate the selling
price for public and private users. In accordance with Government's
social objectives, and to make housing affordable to low-income
persons, land for public housing would be sold at cost, vhile the
remaining land would be sold at market prices. To protect its
financial position, KLDC would not incur any additional long-term debt
without prior Bank concurrence, unless its debt service coverage
exceeds 1.3 in any calendar year (para. 2.06).
5.       KLDC is proposing to improve and expand its activities to
cope with the increasing demand for land and promote the orderly
urbanization of Korea (Annex 4). This requires investments of W1,827
billion between 1986 and 1989, equivalent to four times its total
assets in 1984. Detailed financial projec' .ions (Tables 1 to 5)
summarize the financial forecasts for KLDC. Some other 20 additional
tables, available in the Project File, provide the details used for
this integrated forecast model. The main assumptions are explained in
Annex 7. These pro4ections show that KLDC would be able to finance
about 76.5Z of its investment program from internal cash generation,
through the sale of land. As explained above, sales during the next
three years would be tue result of the completion of ongoing sites and
the sale of part of the transaction land. Land inventories at end-1985
are valued at W 1046 billion, 94S of the total assets of the
corporation.
6.      Land sales are recorded only when land transfer have been
completed. Buyers are required to pay at least 40% when the sale is
agreed, which is accounted as "advances received" (W 131 billion in
1985). until the sale is formalized. Similarly, the interest during
construction is not capitalized but charged to operations, which
results in a postponement of taxes and a reduction of the apparent
profitability, especially when large, debt-financed investments are
undertaken.
7.       Financial projections for the period 1986-92 indicate that
KLDC's financial position would continue to be good. Selling and
administrative expenses vould be about 2Z of sales, the debt service
coverage would exceed 1.9, net income on sales would average 282,



-49 -                      ANNE  6 - Page 3
income before taxes would average 19S of equity, debt vould be less
than 501 of debt plus equity and would be reiuced to less than 30%
after 1991, with KLDC depending mainly on its internal cash generation
for operation and investments. This assumes that the overall time from
land acquisition to supply vould improve somewhat over present
patterns. The construction cycle is longer for large sites, but KLDC
is nov planning to develop some small sites, which would result in
faster inventory turnover. Another important variable is the real
increase in the price of land (assumed to be 21 p.a.). Present
experience indicates much higher increases (about 7% p.a.), which
would be favorable to KLDC because of its extensive land inventories.
Hovever, if Government were to change existing laws protecting
agricultural or green belt areas, or if there were a long housing
recession period, land prices would be stable or could even fall,
reducing KLDC's financial performance.
8.        Financial Sensitivity Analvsis.  The results of an analysis
of the sensitivity of KLDC's financial results to changes in some key
variables for the period 1986-92, are summarized below:
(a) Present financial forecast:
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR          MINIMUM  MAXIMUM  AVERAGE
Cash (Won Billion)                 34      286       167
Operating Income on Sales        28.7Z    33.51    30.11
Net Income on Sales              23.72    29.3%    27.81
Z Income before Tax on Equity    16.8Z    24.8%    18.71
Debt Service Ratio                1.9      9.0       5.7
Debt on Debt plus Equity         16.8Z    43.5%    27.4%
Contrib.to Capital Expenditure   56.3Z    97.81    89.61
(b)  Estimated prices for land are very critical, if every year the
price& for land sold are 10Z lower:
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR          MINIMUM  MAXIMUM  AVERAGE
Cash (Won Billion)               -112       78      -31
Operating Income on Sales        22.2Z    29.31    23.91
Net Income on Sales              17.91    25.71    22.1%
Z Income before Tax on Equity    13.71    21.21    15.61
Debt Service Ratio                1.7      8 1       5.2
Debt on Debt plus Equity         20.1%    44.51    30.01
Contrib.to Capital Expenditrre   46.01    87.52    79.61



- 50 -                    ANNDC 6 - Page 4
(c) Sales depend on KLDC's development cycle which requires three
years (20%. 501. and 30Z). and the supply cycle which requires
four years (02. 401. 451 and 151). These variables are eztremely
critical to KLDC's finances. For example, if the supply cycle is
slightly faster. i.e. 10. 401. 401. 10%, KLDC's cash position
improves considerably (but some profit indicators are lower, due
to less inflationary gains), as follows:
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR         MINThJM MAXIMUM AVERAGE
Cash (Won Billion)                36      361      194
Operating Income on Sales       23.82    26.71    25.12
Net Income on Sales             18.5%    25.3Z   23.4%
% Income before Tax on Equity   15.3%   20.71   17.3Z
Debt Service Ratio               1.9      9.2      5.8
Debt on Debt plus Equity        18.3%    44.61    29.0%
Contrib.to Capital Expenditure  56.9%    99.8%   91.3%
9.       Measures to strengthen KLDC's management information and
accounting systems are also a part of the institutional development
program included in the project. KLDC is planning to improve its
accounting, financial planning, and management information systems. as
well as to increase the quantity and quality of the financial staff.
and study measures to improve its financial management. During
project execution, studies would be carried out to determine the
computer hardware and software required for the Corporation and to
implement computer programs for general accounting, payroll.
inventories, etc. Microcomputers would also be purchased for planning
and management information. An integrated computer projection of
KLDC's investment programs. and overall activities. financial
statements, management graphs and monitoring indicators would be used
to update KLDCC's financial plans and long-term projections. which
would be presented annually to the Bank (para. 3.10).
10.      Economic Analysis. The  economic evaluation of each site
requires a minimum economic rate of return of 11%. The main
subprojects to be undertaken between 1986-87 show an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 13% to 401. An analysis was made of the total land to
be acquired between 1985 and 1989. and of the time and expense
required to develop and sell it. The ERR based on the average unit
cost of acquisition and development. the estimated market prices for
land, and the real price increases in land (averaging 2% p.a.) due to
its increasing scarcity, is 16% (Table 6). Sensitivity analysis shows
that if the development costs are 151 higher the ERR is 13Z. In the
improbable circumstances that the prices for the land supplied decline
by as much as 101. and. simultaneously, the development costs are 15X
above estimates, the ERR would be 5%. However. in this case. KLDC
would take corrective action by eliminating lower return investments
from its program. If no increases in land prices are included. the
ERR is 152. The implementation of the social pricing policy explained
in Annex 1. would result in KLDC's average selling price of about 20%
below market prices. The incremental financial rate of return, based
on these prices and including tax expenses is 8%. which is well above
the real cost of capital to KLDC (Table 6).



- 51 -
KONA                                         A-   S - TAUE 1
UAN UD. DEWMNr PRWECr
OE  STATIeTT  11                         BlitLan Ven
t9Bt     1304    1186     139w    Is"    1ow       1988    1999      1081      1312
TotaL Land Arqulltlon- D0I sq .  14511    11714   1548    11475   1103    11531   10392   11583    12522    13781
Land Devtopuent - 000 eq mtere   Ii        7173    7511       3     11 13 O120  9170    3277    9153  O514    10465
Land  bdeLopmnt-WO aq                a        O        0       17      13       12      12       12        10       10
Land  appLy - 000 sq meters        774    22727   21335   13071   1a337   13119   12832   12873    12739    13410
laud 8etd - 000 aq a                NA    11633   18312    11571   14573   13209   13006   12748    15D3         13202
TOTAL UPPLY - 8ILLSOI MM       200.374  335.70I  357.55   48.58  507.078 545.005 518.923 858.444  903.180  s2e.0o2
DOv.Lop.Lmnd SappLied        113.312  221.700 245.311  434.500 451.030  408.7  514.209  590.032  B53j3    8o0o
Other Land 6 luf d. Sapptled   O5.8d2  115.020  111.240   52.085  5.141   78.729 102.325  58.412  11s.588  122.2
SALES    LADs                  119.0m   181.023 339.455  4W.a o    4o.214 534.012 592.~aU   540.160  752.39    W.835
Devetoped Land  aloes         15.e22   107.758  317.095 373      427.72 461.430 498.017  52.800  64.651  7Wo026
Other Land & Rnow. gulLd.SoLd 103.730   72.321   01.150  78.413  59.331  70.54  92.437  75.742  102.52         3.467
Rent A Other Inme             0.034    0.94B    1.20    1.40    1.501   1.586   1.547    1.729    1.815    1.90
COr OF SALES                    37.104  132200 220.350 232.5 3342 390.308 412.334 440.507  521.159  583.413
Cast DeveLoped Lend Sad       1.311    81.U11  13.3   202.59  215.342 303.227 337.985 379.439  438.022  517.40
Cast of Other Land Satd       35.354   49.907  56.721   70.000  47.945  56.783  73.50   90.503   82.023  85.373
ervlcee I Other Coste          0.321    0.5II    0.3o7 0.343   0.7    0.408   0.433   0.475    0.514    0.s5
OSAS PRNrF                      22.132   4B.724  170.105 130.31  154.552  173.919  190.517 199.654  231.836  21.21O
SELLING & ADNIN. tPENSE8         8.716    6.778   7.370    9.21    9.014   9.7M3  10.308   11.412   12.474   t3.550
PersonneL (Administrative      3.214    3.157   3.400   3.73M    4.001    4.312   4.638   4.989       5.388    5.772
Severance Expene               0.770    0.400   0.395     0.31    O.B05   0.13   0.915   1.009    1.106    1203
Overhead                       2.231    2.433   2.702   2.034   3.127   3.383   3.619   3.91    4.18S    4.592
Other Expense                  O.303   O.57    0.00    0.24   OJ9.6      1.039   1.172   1.21       1.528    1.765
Depreclat1in                   0.170    0.197   0.223   0.20    0.220   0.238   0.254   0.22    0.290    0.399
OEATING INCOE                   15.414   41.045  171.435 1i1.m   145.533  1r. 953 199.921  198.242  213.363  247.598
OTHER IIOE                      19.118   25.MA4  32.036   31.096  35.363   42.062  45.243  51.003   51.534   50.139
Interest on SaLes Rselvleas   9.911   14.234  20.011   25.000   33.314  35.15   38.250  43.578   47.052   55.345
Other Interest                  1.121    7.07    8.355    3.O23   1.731    1.917   1.908   2.003    2.103    2.209
Other Income                   1.011    3.703   3.060   3.09    3.055   4.238    5.085    5.422    2.539    2.585
OTHER EXPE;ES                   22.323   13.295  3B.055  3O.164  51.050  2S.05  36.942   2S.052   2E.719   23.757
Into wet  penxp               20.069   19.204  24.M    29.164  50.025  27.R74  35.907  23.95S   27.407   22.442
Other Expenses                2L537    0.032  11.371    1.0o0    1.03'    1.032   1.139    1.192    1.252    1.315
INCODE 96O1E TAES               110J15    47.718 11l.t1S  152.304 13.37   178.859 179.221  214.163  242.336  289.048
Inow  Taxes                      1.3H    10.53   21tu44   Ii.o    17.333   22.992  23.209  27.845   31.04   35.029
KET DCONE                       tO.I     37.U1=  145.05  132.340 115.035  153.89s  155.22  10B.349  200.334  247.122
PATIN AM10 CUAMTOM
4oermtlng Icme aon 8eLes          12.91    23.8%   421.      33      2.73   30.73   29.73   29.45    29.1n    29.5
ros  Profit on Bales              15.55    25.3    44.5    25.8      31.63   32.5    30.4S   31.I        30.5    30.85
Net Incowe an Seies                9.13    20.1    35.31    23.3   33.71   28.8   26.33    29.13         29.OS    23.8
Incme Beftore Tnx/Equity           4.7n    15.01   36.5%   24.5%   16.M    19.93   17.11    17.3S        19.83    15.3
i I  Dee to rmndlng, the Last digit In totets my _pp er different tha  th  sm af coLume.
1pru8



- 52 -
KOMA                                       -A       - TAL  2
M    LAN  W UDELPENW PROJ
80LO   AM  ,PPUCLIC Z    O FUIWI                BILlim Von
13sm     1934    low      I1393    1      1391 tOII        13S0     1391    lUll
SOURCE8 OF FUNDS
Was to" S LtA Berv.Expanva 113.0    173.015 311.811  444.190 410.045 524.073 5W.1109  m2.54   740.2013   91.937
Other Irn_am.eupnms  iN     - ¶5.552   14.30  -1.390   10.3  20.530   17.9011  un.       2t.0n    11.019    1.3
Mo  Cah Ezp a                 0.170    0.197   0.23    0.0 02220   0.325   0.24   0.272    0290    0.301
Prtor Yar I..  Ajumtmsnta   0.171   -1.047   0.230
NU IEr IAL 0WE S               u.m0  187.4M  330.901 455.117 500.790 542.30  604.101 50.73  759.525  856.043
isis of Fixed Aests                      0.21    0.410   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000
Eqmity Cmntributions           20.000   10.000  15.000  20.000
IKE Uh.s  and L L.n             0.000    0.000   0.000  18.209  323.54  26.21   35.595   0.000    0.000)   0.000
Lard lun  (Ordinary Bondsl     34.80    34.01   39.445  23.840  10.55   20.5    21.571  22.84    2a.7e    24.071
bods fotr O t RsaPysnt         20.45    49.578  13.410  20.350  24.457   5.3900  2.064  23.312   23.727   21.214
G.venrmmt Loans                 0.000    0.000   0.000   0.000  10.003   0.000   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000
lutlemoL    1qaing Ln           0.0010   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.000    °.000    0.000
Pubtli Bd                       0.000    0.000   0.000  20.000   0.000   0.000   o.omo   o.ooo    0.m00    o.ooo
IM  Loan 1 A 2                  9.876   10.050  20.179  14m0    0.0010  O.OOo   0.000   0.000    0.000    0.500
Other  Los.. I Ftnnced Ilntet   9.247   30.s77  11 .120  1454  1t2.757   9.707   1.m13   1.619    9.217    0.034
TOTAL IrIONW                   85.234  131.145  34.983 110.4  10327   92.158  o3.913  53.57   82.72B   65.213
TOrAL OUBE6 OF FUNS           233.197  m22.92  411.202 5.04 804.102 832.459 80u.097 -7tO.3BO   022.11  021.213
A P P L I C AT rON    O 0 F  F U N DS
Land Acquositin ftr OD"Lopmant 89.379  141.712 273.890 235.535 268.84 213.126 237.492 436.029  515.020  600.720
Loud Ove Lop.nt                45.197   51f.5  72.185  31.041  31.B4 A     05  910.124 107.751  120.84t  130.571
Land RmdsvsLopuant              0.128    14.349   7.892  12.000   5.640   7.000   7.360   7.728    1.00    3.495
Eoglmwring I  lms d             3.855    4.174   5.370   5.175   5.452   5.728   5.875   8.495    7.345    3.417
Land Acquisition for Trsnsaction 19.031  115.415  31.94S  53.100  41.914  51.59  52.9Z7  59.524   53.450  92.427
Fiaxd Aaaat & Inst.0swetapsant   1.032    0.252   0.213   0.200   0.300   0.400   0.400   0.400    0.100    0.40D
TOTAL CAP1TAL DBPEIOTU9       227.961  327.807 423.434 403.051 421.974 488.130   4.149 814.027  711.151   30.11o
A.rtlation                     55.933   51.425  49.465  77.703 217.455  74.801  5.908  5s.su    95.340   72.056
Oporst1nsL Intsrest           20.080   10.204  24.984  23.154  50W2   27.974  35.07  23.859   27.497   22.442
TOTAL OE81 SERVICE             75.782   70.929  72.449 106.972 267.480 102.870 134.415  77.705  113.807   S5.498
NOMMS CAPITAL NEEDS I/ -V.233    .087   5.771 -19.075  -2.773 -16.370 -0.458 -19.03  -43.9206  -40.698
OTERN AUETBIAIL. C      lNE     7.423   -2.401 -2.447   0.753  -1.214  -1.4A    -1.400  -1.804   -1.817   -2.084
TOTAL APPLICATOI  CF FUlS    255.54   323.950 484.257 401.800 95.111  592.459 646.507 572.320  790.075  831.579
CAUI DC9U  (i+ OR DEUASE   -02.445   -1.024 3.945 103.158 -00.353 S2.002  51.4S0  37.040   42.176   39.883
Contrib.to CapitaL Expanditur o  44.5    58.63   79.21    0.0.3    50.31   97.91   32.11   96.31    97.15    33.91
Odt serwvic Ratio                 1.7      2.7     5.3      4.3     1.1     5.3      4.5     8.4      9.7       3.0
15*r-



- 53 -
KOIU                                          ANNE U - TAIKE 3
UIA  LAND DEVELOPNI PROJECT
UALAICE TATEIW                            litLian Van
1o0w     10U4    13150   13o      1ow      1333    133    low         1301     1012
Cash L loaks                     3.527    4.271  11011  114.772  =2.019 115.310 117.010 204.20   248.529   209.202
R 1aeisian Land Soid (not)   40.153   33.817  38.B80  51.680  1.403  70.S00   71075  84.20    009.100  111.B7B
NbisetabLe Sauritiuo            25.0.   2u.603   0.020   0.020   0.020   0.m00    0.m1    0.0m0    0.020    0.020
Advenae to Contreator            1.854    1.732   0.777   0.777   0.304   0.040   0.U2   0.927    0.073    1.121
Other Current Aoato              1.166    0.485   2.408   1.803   1.12    1.00    1.         1.80      1.#12    1.80
TOTAL CUNNTf ASSETS             72.308   63.08  54.M71  177.03  100.0m  108.8t3  24.111 O131.2 UMN 38.15   400.752
Inventory Dawvooping Land      401.592  516.112  709.838 919.7   80B.260 1004.472 11:1.03 0.774  51223   17532.57
Inventory Transaction Land     245.29  323.90 326.8B1  327.7M1 345.390 343.0ES  3S4.323  3       23.11 222.03  322.152
TOTAL LAND INVENTORY          94.13  940.410 1019.317 1151.572 1243.93 1351.48 147.231 194.19   1308.392 2073.I0I
Fixed Amast In Operation         4.787    4.743   4.538   4.730   5.038   5.43   5.6038   S.29         9.=3    7.038
AccumuLeted Oapracietien         0.407    0.U44   0.997   1.078   1.236   1.519    1.73    2.057    2.347    2.154
NET FDE ASS                       .270    4.009   3.971   3.992   S.742   2.3o7   4.05    4.1n1    4.291    4.384
RaelvabLas on Ltnd 6oLd Inmt]   27.118    5J2      1.078   3.140   3.300    .700   4.109   4.47    5.221    5.37B
bstrieted Bonk Oapesits         O0IO0    18.301   0.000   0.000   0.000   0.0100   0.000   0.000    O.0         0.000
Other Assts                      6.153    7.140  10.40  10.B40  10.U0   10.340  10.60   10.34    10.60    10.940
TOTAL ASST                     757.750  940.133 1115.577 1351.099 1312.233 1959.513 1740.174 1357.239 2 m05.11 2501.462
Advese Rceiewd                 164.59    198.603 132.470  170.233 177.477 1J1.82  215.313  2S0.46   231.1113  32.112
Other Account Psya Le           17.142   31.220  82.037  948209   7.038  70.450   73.375  77.74   01.558    9.836
Income Taxes PayabLe             0.984   10.4A2  21.454  13.    11.=39  22.302  23.2.0   27.34    31.304  31.923
Corrint Ihcur.Long-Ter. Odbt    41.499   29.n35  77.708 217.45   74.609  3.60O  53.380   8.340   73.053   73.056
TOTAL CIRRBtT UABILXTIES       224.087  27s.139 293.970   a1.923  36.30  32.4a4 360..   422M.34  497.221   520.730
Acemed Severance Indawiltia      3.302    4.2      5.5097   g.m    8.413  10.199   12.003  14.194   19.515    10.316
Other LiabiLities                     0.000    0.000   0.000   0.0°°    0.000   0.0    00   0.000    0.000    0.000
Lon-Term Dbt [snet]            276.459  255.039 354.320  259.311 284.904 277.014 315.059 23.934  279.125  263.732
TOTAL LIMILMES                 502A.4   638.382 92.599    .537 620.717 970.M4 94.050  722.442  759.950   900.808
CapStal                        203.043  213.843 229.943 240.9M4  249.043 248.343  249.342  248.343  240.941  248.943
Rattined Eernings I RP-servs    49.888   07.973 233.430 368.5   402.S3  838.970 757.172 915.154 1193.758 1443.711
TOTAL EmaTY                    253.011   301.816 492.231  615.52  732.5B   BV.Ot3 214.115 123.037  1445.83   192.354
TOTAL EoITY AND UABILIES    757.75  940.198 1115.S77 1351.089 1362.2991538.513 1740.174 1957.530 2205.950  2501.482
Current Ratio                      2.1      2.1      2.3     2.1     3.0      3.1      3.3     3.8       4.0      4.1
Warking CapitaL BLLion W         240.9    302.7   470.2   524.0   92.5    009.0  1020.1  1177.9   1294.7   1933.7
odebt Eiity RPatio                 1.3      1.3      0.9     0.8     0.5      0.4      0.4     0.3       0.2      0.2
I Days Accwnts ReceivabLe          122       as      35       48      48       48      49       48       48        49
15-Apr-9S



- 54 -
KORA                           AN   I - TAM  4
UERI  LAW DEVEL NENJ  PR1JWT
PIIWCXI  PULN                  l0tLl.n San
TOTAL    3 OF      im 1m1            low      w91
TOTAL
NT INTENAL UOMNC                210A.4   111.1  455.1   500.8    U8d    004
La oi FFxed Amots                  0.0     0.0%    o.o       o.0      0.0     o.o
NINWI
ert1zat1on                       42-3.E    5.S   77.7   217.5    74.7    J3.3
,eritloft In"r t                 142.0     7.0   80.3    U.0    26.0    21.3
TOTAL DErT SE=ICE                011.4    3.5  10Q.3  387.15  l10.7   124.4
IORKI  CAPITAL IS  t(43          -5.S    -2.2a   -l.1    -3.8   -17.0   -0.5
Oni AUMIE  (*3 OR 0 A.INEED       -3.4    -0.8      0.31    -td      -1.4    -1.5
CASH INCER   1iJ OR D13:EASE    156.0      9.15  103.5   -61.0       S.Q    51.3
NET INTERIA CASH UEINTWIH       1207.7     r,r,  PM-.1  a3ia    373.0   440.2
CAPrTAL EEmrU
Lnd Acquisition tor DevLop.   11.0    8494.5   2s5.5   23.3   231.1   237.5
Land Dmwv.opnt                  372.2    20.45   O1.0        1.1i    30.5    33.1
Enugnerln  & Onehead             17.3      1.01    4.1       4.4      4.3     4.7
TOrAL PRIJrT IZVESTNENT        1575.0    *.21   220.7   254.7   403.3   471j
Land Rodmloo_pnt                 a3.0      1.5    12.0       bJ      7.0      7.4
Land Acquis. for Transaetions    21t.3    11.71   56.1    43.9    51.4    52.0
Enginomring A Overbnad             4.4     0.21    1.0       1.1      1.1     1.2
Fixed samatn & Inst.1eveLopmen     1.3     0.15    0.2       03.      0.4     0.4
TOTAL CAPITAL  WENPE9TU         1S7.1   100.01  403.1   411.7   463.2   524.1
IER TO SE FNAENCus               423.4    22.55  130.3   102.4       0.2    03.3
FIRM=  DYs
Propoad Il Lan                   127.6     7.01   18.2    aB2.      23.2    23.3
Lond Bonds                       O.3       4.7    23.3    13.8    20.S    21.3
Bands tor Dbt Rapayment          103.0     5.5%   23.3    24.5    20.7    27a.O
Other Loa                        33.8      4.aS   40.5    2e.8       1.7      0.8
TOTAL UOARROODJ                  409.4    22.45  119.9   102.4    32e2    93.2
Equlty Cantributions             20.0      1.12   20.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL FINIIC 0                   4Q9.4    23.51  139.0   103.4    92.2    93.9
1s b



- 55 -
KONA                                   AMW  I - TAM1.E
UMI LAW DEWLIEUW PIOJEIT
WNmORMi IOICATOME
1933     13B4    tOU      19o5    iW7    1s"       1321    1I10       1W1      1o2w
L_d Aqhleit1an- 000 q mters   14811    11714   1545    1147    11035   1151i    10602   115S13    1521    1357
Lasd DmveLapmnt - 000 eq mtars   7395       '273    7522    3314   101i       O170    gm77    3152       9514    10485
LudWd.evLpm.nt-ODO *q nter&          a         0       0       17       13      12       12      12        10        10
Land DUppLy - 000 q mtert        13774    22727   21930   13071   1307   13116   1202   1211            12739    12410
Land Acqlitian- liStion Won    E8.379  141.712  279.810  235.535 211.114 313.121  387.432 423.021   515.020  503.720
Lad OfL olpmsnt - HILLie  Van   45.197   51.795  72.165   31.041   01.464  .00.565   00.124 107.751  120.311   133.71
Laud lRdevLp_mnt -   t Lila.n Won  0.296    14.349   7.802   12.000   1.140   7.000   7.360   7.725     L.060    I5.4A
Lad SbppIy -  iLLiOn Won       208.874  336.728 357.552 4SB.565  507.07B  a4.005 615.523  65.444   32.U30  
Land Seld - BILLian lln        103.780   72.321  91.150  78.413  59.S31   70.9354   2.437  75.742  102.520   85.457
0 De" Aecunte lhcmlwvbls           122        ea      35       48       49      43       48       48       49        43
ltjer of E*teyes                   120       863     a5s      392      no      oe       006     n3       1027      1030
S Increase e  et _iptayaes                   6.01   10.4%    3.43    -0.21   -0.7n   -1.5        2.41     3.5       5.8
-, LoysendLLion sq a ODwLaped   110.8    119.4   127.5    90.S    37.6   107.1   104.0   100.0    107.8    103.2
-- t Service ratio                 1.7       2.7     5.3      4.3      1.1     5.3      4.5      3.4      6.7       9.0
Debt Eqity Ratio                   1.3       1.3     0.9      0.9      0.5     0.4      0.4      0.3      0.2       0.2
3 Debt an Oebt pLus Equity        55.6S    56.73   49.32   43.3    32.SS    23.71   2B.11   231S         13.53    15.8
leas emm. an SaLes                18.5S    26.9s   44.3    35.43   31.63   32.51   30.4S   31.21    30.0    30.0
Oeruating Incom  an 6Las          12.93    23.2.    42.91    33.5    23.7S   30.73   29.73   20.41    23.1S    29.
Income beftrn Tax an Equity        4.7S    15.8X  326.0    24.0      1S .     1393S   17.11   1773       19.86    16.5
Not Income an SeLes                9.1S    2J.55   3S.33    293       23.73   23.8    26.3S   29.13    28.0S    23.2S
Stese an Inventories              ¶8.5S     21.51   39.23   39.2    39.31   39.53   40.5   38.93    41.01    40.31
PeraonntL Coet/F1etd Staff Cost   2.047    1.939   1.796    1.943   1.S85   1.357   1.3O    1.*.29    1.887    1.6l7
Aministr.tive Expenses an S-Lem    5.63      3.7!    1.9S     1.93    1.93     1.91    1.5       1.15     1.73      1.63
I Contrib.to CapitaL Expendlture   44.4S    59.6!   78.23    90.5    56.3    97.5S   92.11   96.33       97.13    86.5S
CRITICAL FINRANCLL IMNICATORS FOR THE PEAIW  196-1992s
VARIASLE OR IND1ICATOR       ItMI4   DUI   A1IAER
Cash t.  on BILLIonI             34      235     157
Operating Income on SLete      28.73    33.53   30.13
Hot Income an SaLes            23.73    29.33   27.5
S Incoe betore Tax on Equity   16.8S    24.8   18.71
Debt Service Pbtio              1.9      9.0     5.7
Daym Accounts RecslvabLe         48       48      49
Debt on Debt pLue Equity       16.85   42.3    27.41
Contrib.to CapitaL Expenditur   58.33    97.85  839.S
15-Apre6



- 56 -
-                                             -IF  _     - TBLU a
*  Iu Ma  PZUIMW111131 P   13A 3
*l   1351.   ML_Y ItnU          WE                      wa.C                           -N.1  mZrId -
WMN      WE        LAI3      1*13             LM                 El.. IL bamrsi   73WAL   LAI       1AW      U
-    nB-    D                ;F UM  am I=   iC -  inauw iNIns    Aton.  uur    11         _     n    inmt
1173       NWi              P13Q l a    111 MM          1113   A 035m ev  
a I3           a3        3 I       lfc     43     3a I      I3               73I
at_   awuinu        11.9              31.3         a    3 14.41    1.10    lie   swim    "           OP   -min.
him       a        6111111A    1 .    U1.1113                              *_. _a via   MAY  .m 1uJ1   -40F.
low     3113.3  1SPINA    137.6    W137   35.73    37.16    4.37    7.77  313.13    min1  1114.131   13.A
am      1311.3    113.30 IIJ  _3.    D.14       5.14    W.        3._      7A3   131.11   1.C       MM       31
am             N.~~~~Sfj    1137f.7                 17.111    1.34    3.11   31.13   SI.1      mua"   loin
_          7_v  _~~~~~~~4.2                                        Om.  si.r nx  nin  wif  __
ama                           1441.3                                           a     _.      u.      v.n      1w. n _*v 1 
P anebLown as 63 UlmamI bIe                       M.41   337.72   17.6        I 1.3  141. 3 11.07 164.14   113.4
The PiimaLu btmt of blt.r smine KIX'e aWHlo Pmie  lmq wmd seiLLI  prlo    7.13
-  t   m w V OTN twmm
(iLLim  be-  - Prima. of' Jary 1S3
USLAWmw.A 1V1PLY maN          Lr                r-ft    W&.*  oWIU WN                                --MMr          na -
;  u-                                                 TMPAE
VW      L_       LAW        UE       310 V     UE       LA         3. G  brn.i  TUTU.  imas af Imrma.   WE            LAW      UN
AmUm- oDIWP-  SULED COW   l. A1-  DSIU.   i1111-   1Me.   OMr _1uu Le_ Vbio                                            mUtIM
31 1113   inif      m   #N671           N.    _u*  0a mm                  Lad   w=l & IS 1NA#n U
13  33    31        Ii       Elf~~~~~~~~o                               ft jt             ha?
a=    1im       216.91       0.*  311   301.73    *.1 1          1.10    1.13   min   30.70                41n         m    -min
5    71     poU.0    3131.3        34J   313.46    74.33    3.3       a.6    min1  4"1.4   6.11111  ABA4    mna          -1.71
aouu MES        A37.      24.6   11.3u       0.6      4.7    7.77    5.7    AS.m   13.36    g1            601.01    13.6
.I  UItA w0 11173.3    114.8534424               6     133       3.13    7.04  35. l4t4  13.317   44.18   4117                74.74
am              7=i       1 .4                         111.7    a1i       3.73   77.7  1TAJO  1.O1        46.13    4.44   313.6
a o3J    OW.7                          am        1.34    1.31   a*1       1.       4.3    as         ma    i.7a
1131          0.3~~~O  146.3                                         0.*      u.s             0.=      v7.0    111141     *,
Pres* blotu  at a Dloom raft                        m.N    36.3    17.6    31.13  1413.73               41.13   41.J1   17133      Ml.=3
The braIbe ib of' blorm  boed _       timted   _   *e prige In        sisI
-mzL Cr  -L
MI.Tr.m   1LYSIS          Ea       C      AMe 13o ---T
- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    i    i -IIE _rn                -4IU   E _-
It ewhoum_  baU 1nar_  115                 13.M                            0l1imwt   Laud    Laod  S b eLop  Lwd         Low     TotiL
lfte    Ample. Omtq.   em          etd   Otuvlop.
If there are ao rmL incree In                                                       31.   Lt. V  OU. V  Tot   loO aqa  Vaq. *Vo  .
t d pciesa                              14.6
a   30A    211.5         271 ns          10.0     23.
It donLepm_t a *e imuew a 11. end tme                                           16   734.9   273.32       271  3           10.3     40.7
toad bor"Ito *Pr re dume 10              4.-3
11   _ed m the ratetiom1ips "Md by KLOC for tis ahiadLe of laid mouleltion. da,te_ot and  w5pv.
4 Ubimee q tim    n  peettld_ to fuLtV imeLop en  mppLy *LL tim  Land poruieaud heam  9 111-61.
3    aL _I unct 1er_M_ In Lt_  prile   mtd *evr"q   _           2U  JII  in 1M. U In 1307. ;d 3.JM Pa. thereafter).
41 Aawed   at  *        A  t_moad per ap_re soeu (InoLodim  tolema. baud  n 1OO date.
Rhed an th       r     a mngsopiag et   veeme. e_tiosted at 4 of daLeeoat cgate.
OJ o r_   of Om'  deve_opmunt oreene  'r 1_inJl. qperetimL mexpens  are pror td betwen Lrd transation Nu daewLoommt.
7| law pr_ are _su           to 1"er_a        x  r    Lr_  term
I UtlC peun       by fopotlm   unrenad arm *    K  mullt wvoos lie mettned to be 163 meboy tinanmaL prloeViJ
I  Eel.di  tagat,  st1ted at M of demoPm_t gat.
101 Witmt tie prajet tM indaeLleu Loed I Iima  to Incrias i  votes (333, this ifgremr_m In wvaL. In a Ld  Crm
tOn prejoot b_nefits.  fter tO  Lwu Is _uppliud, the priem inor e  Sn tim  wupLiu Lan mwi mu'r than _rete the
IIrmroa  In tIm  wuwaheu   Loud.
113 lo II C _ 1 le Laout haLf of tm Land at aet (for *t  toh  imuslegnu*t everIop m1itm   pria In etitd to be   t higher.



- 57 -                      ANNEX 7 - Page I
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Assumotions for Financial Proiections
Inflation
1.      Project cost tables assume that foreign price increases would
be 7.2% in 1986, 6.8Z in 1987 and 1988, 72 in 1989, and 7.1Z in 1990.
Local inflation between 1983 and 1985 has been only about 3%.
Government efforts to curtail inflation are likely to hold inflation
below the foreign inflation levels. The financial projections assume
that local inflation would be about 4% for 1986 and about 5%
thereafter. The exchange rate is assumed to adjust to maintain
"purchasing power parity". The exchange rate for 1986 is assumed at W
880 per US dollar.
Financial Proiections
2.      KLDC's investment programs (Annex 4) and financial projections
were developed by the appraisal team using computer programs taylored
to KLDC's program; and financial condition. The main financial
statements (Table 1 - Income, Table 2 - Flow of Funds, Table 3 -
Balance, Table 4 - Financial Plan, Table 5 - Monitoring Indicators)
and Table 6 (Economic and Financial Analysis) are presented in Annex
6. Additional tables, available in the project file, provide details
of all the assumptions and intermediate results regarding land
acquisition, development and supply, average cost and price of land,
fixed assets, debt analysis, operational expenses, working capital and
stock inventories. Therefore only the main assumptions are explained
below.
Land Acquisition-and Supply.
3.       Detailed projections were prepared for the acquisition,
development and supply of land by KLDC. Historical data (1980-84) and
preliminary results for 1985 were collected for this purpose. These
values were used to forecast trends and values for 1986-91. For 1986-
87, the land acquisition was based on preliminary analysis of sites
prepared by KLDC. The program of land acquisition for industrial sites
would be completed in 1988. Land acquisition for housing is assumed to
increase from 6 million sq m in 1986 to 10 million sq m by 1991. On
the average, land development takes three years and is scheduled
annually as 202, 50% and 302 for each of the three years. The land
acquisition cost is estimated based on 1985 data, and assumes that
average land price increases would be 2Z over inflation (1Z in 1986,
2% in 1987 and 2.5% in 1988 and 1989. Land closer to downtown areas
are preferred for housing, but are more expensive, resulting in unit
costs which are higher for housing estates, than for industrial
estates. The land supply (available for sale or already contracted)
averages four years, with the cummulative land supplied reaching OZ,
40Z, 85Z and 1OOZ during this period.
Income Statement
4.        Sale of Land. KLDC recognizes sales only when the land has



- 58 -                     ANNEX 7 - Page 2
been officially transferred (which may require more than a year of
bureaucratic procedures). Moreover, for the land sold in long-term
installments, only the annual receipts are recognized as sales. This a
conservative procedure, which is accepted by Korean accounting
standards, and which reduces taxes and the apparent financial
performance of KLDC. Rovever, KLDC collects payments (40Z on the first
and second years, and 20Z in the third year), as soon as the basic
agreement on the purchase of land is reached with a client. This
results in considerable balances in the Advances Received account. The
land supplied (contracted) is transferred, and accounted as sales in
about three years, with 702 being sold in the year that the land is
supplied, 20Z in the second year and 10% in the third year. The sales
of transaction land are scheduled to maintain a continuous supply,
which is expected to reduce the stock of developed land from 41
million sq m to 21 million sq m between 1983 and 1989.
5.        Cost of Sales. The cost of sales is computed based on the
original costs of land acquisition, development and overhead for the
land sold in a given year. Therefore, holding the land for a couple
of years results in higher nominal profits whicb are mainly due to
inflation. However, some real increases in unit prices for land are
also expected varying from 1% in 1986 to 2.5% in 1988.
6.        Personnel.  The number of staff allocated to central or
general administration, presently 425, is assumed to increase slowly
over time, at about 1% per year. Most of the KLDC staff (534 in 1985)
vork in project-related activities, and their cost is added to the
investment program as overhead. The number of project staff is
estimated to increase at a rate of 60% in proportion to the increases
in land acquisition, and 40% in relation with the development works.
Assuming efficiency gains, and the proposed land development program,
the project staff is expected to remain below 1,000 for the next few
years. Unit personnel expenses are expected to increase roughly with
inflation. Details of the number of new employees required based on
historical trends, and on the new projects planned, are available in
the Project File. Severance expenses are accrued at a rate of about
1.6 months per year of employLent, and the total amount accrued also
increases with the increase in salaries.
7.        Other Exsenses. Overhead expenses are estimated as 78% of
the administrative personnel expenses. Other expenses are estimated as
0.17X of the value of the land supplied. Depreciation expenses assume
a straight-line depreciation on fixed assets, over 2-25 years,
averaging 4% for the projection period.  KLDC pays corporation,
inhabitant and defense taxes, which average about 13% of its net
income before taxes.
8.       Sources and ADulications of Funds. The main source of funds
is the sale of land. Net internal cash generation resulting from the
sale of land is expected to provide three-fourths of the funds for
capital expenditures between 1986 and 1989. Given the time-lag between
land acquisition, development and supply, sales are the result of the
previous years' projects and investments, rather than of the yearly
investments. Borroving is expected to finance some 22.4% of capital
expenditures. This includes the proposed Bank loan and some
disbursements from the two previous projects. The land acquisitions
for the Land Transactions Program is almost completely financed by two



- 59 -                     ANW-7 - Page 3
types of bonds or debentures: land bonds at SZ interest, payable in
full after two years grace (used to pay the landowners and to reduce
KLDC"s financial requirements), and the bonds for debt repayment. In
this case, Government funds are used to pay industries for idle land
(vhich was purchased as investments by many Korean coupanies). The
land is then transferred to KLDC, which after five years pays back the
full amount at a simple interest rate of 7Z. Governmzent contributions
of V 20 billion have been included in the 1986 budget. Further
contributions may be needed to pay the cost of externalities to the
Doonsan Site in Taejeon City (Annex 8, para. 5). The overall loans and
equity contributions are presented in Annez 5, Table 2. Further
details on terms and conditions of these loans are presented in the
detailed financial projections (available in the Project File).
Details of ILDC's investment program are presented in Annex 3.
9.       Balance Statement. Accounts receivable are based on the
average payment schedule and installment sales and are assumed at
about one month of sales. Accounts receivable earn interest at the
commercial interest rates, presently 10.5Z. The receivables due
within one year are presented as current assets. Inventories are in
nominal prices and are separated between developed and transaction
land. Accounts payable to contractors average about one month of the
annual capital expenditures, but are not recorded in the accounting
records until its payment have been approved, reducing the magnitude
of this account.
10.      Finauciaa Pla.  The overall financing plan (Anex 5, Table
4) includes the proposed Bank loan for 15 years, including a grace
period of 3 years, at the standard variable rate. The disbursement for
debentures or Government loans in each year constitute a separate
loan. With the exception of debentures for debt repayment, the
interest is not financed but paid at the end of each year. Because of
this, KIDC is not capitalizing the interest, which is charged annually
to the income statement.



- 60 -                     Annex 8 - Page I
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Allocation Study of Urban Land Development Project
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Government of Korea has an ambitioa  program to expand
housing land to fill the housing deficit in urban areas, where. on the
average, about two families are presently sharing one unit, and to
provile the opportunity for most Koreans to own a house within the
next fifteen years. In addition, the country's accelerated industrial
development. coupled with high urbanization rates and increases in per
capita incomes, is rapidly increasing the demand for industrial land
to maintain the economic growth and to provide better housing and a
good environment. The strongest demand for land is in the 50 largest
cities, where most of the readily available and already serviced land
has already been used, requiring expensive and long-term investment
programs to make further land available in a timely fashion.
2.       The Government has realized that the limited availability of
urban land is becoming a critical constraint for the development of
Korea and the welfare of the population. To solve these development
problems, the Government established the Korea Land Development
Corporation cKLDC) in 1978. The Corporation's growth to date and its
development plans are impressive, with the land supplied in 1985 being
26 times the achievements of 1980.
3.        Given the magnitude of investments in land and housing, the
Government's policy aims at recovering the cost of land development
from the beneficiaries purchasing the land. At the same time. KLDC's
policy is to make housing affordable to the low-income population by
providing the land for national housing units (i.e.. those less than
25.7 py). at cost.
4.       Land development costs can be drastically different. even in
similar neighborhoods. due to the topographic features of the proposed
site, the present zoning of the land and its distance from downtown,
the vicinity and availability of services (transportation. water.
drainage, power. etc.). site layout and density, etc. However, for
costing purposes, a simple average cost is used for all plot units.
Locational advantages within a different site result in market values
as high as two or more times for the best sites compared with the
worst located plots. An average cost for all areas may result in
prices of land for low-income housing being higher than market prices.
which is contrary to the objectives of the Corporation, and may result
in unnecessary delays and possible cash problems for the Corporation
due to lower marketability of some of these plots at that price. This
pricing probles is typical for many commercial products, where the
same cost and selling price cannot be applied to all physical units.
Alternative pricing strategies would therefore be studied and tested
under this study.



- 61 -                     Annex 8 - Page 2
5.       On average, about 75Z of the land acquired is salable, with
the remaining land being streets and public places. However. for the
new town development programs. or for some new sites. the area of
salable land may be reduced considerably. even below 55X. because of
the need to provide for additional city needs. for example wider
highways than required for the particular site. general parks or green
areas. public squares or landscaped areas, which are provided not for
the requirements of the purchasers of plots on that site, but are
considered necessary for the city and even the country's development.
The use of land for these purposes considerably increasr:s the price of
the salable land (i.e. the average price would be 36?.. higher if the
salable land is 552 instead of 75%). This creates a financial risk for
the Corporation and may result in many unsold plots and excessive cash
requirements to be financed from internal resources. It is therefore
important to provide a practical method for the allocation of these
additional costs. which would provide the cities with an incentive to
avoid wasteful use of land, or which will recover, from the local or
national government, the costs which are not related to the direct
beneficiaries.
6.      To accelerate the availability of sites for housing and avoid
some cost duplication in the preparation of land and services. KLDC
has started to sell semi-developed plots, the development of which
would be completed by the final purchasers. This approach would result
in early delivery of housing units (which can be started
simultaneously and do not require the completion of the total site)
and would require less financial resources from KLDC. since part of
the development cost would be undertaken by the housing developer.
which would result in lower overall development costs. It is important
to study the pricing policy for semi-developed land, taking into
consideration the following factors:
(a) the contract for sale of some of these plots may at an early
stage , when the total costs are not fully established;
(b) the development of these plots would be less expensive;
(c) less financial resources would be needed;
(d) the earlj sale of land to some users is likely to increase
the demand and price for the remaining land on that site;
and
(e) early bidders are likely to request the bestsites.



- 62 -                    Anne 8- Page 3
Objective
7.       The main objective is to study the cost allocation problems
discussed above and provide recommendations on a general methodology
and procedures for sound pricing of land for:
(a) the allocation of costs to the developed land. and its
allocation to different areas within the same site;
(b) the cost allocation, using the method of the lover of the
benefits or the alternative cost. for sites where amenities.
not directly required or associated vith the beneficiaries
or users of the salable land. are required to be provided;
(c) the recommendation of pricing methods for semi-developed
land. which would be sold to final users at early stages of
development; and
(d) applying the results of the study to typical sites and
making recommendations on the share of the benefits and
costs of the development of the Taejeon/Doonsan site
allocable to the Central Government and Taejeon city.
Scope of Work and Execution of the Study
8.       The study should analyze the present experience and cost
practices of KLDC and provide practical recommendations for the
general methodology to be used for cost allocation in the above-
mentioned cases. It should also analyze the significance of
differences in the cost of land sites and provide advice on the
advantages o- disadvantages of a uniform costing/pricing policy and
alternatives to this policy. The study should recommend a policy with
well defined criteria for distributing costs. The criteria should be
simple to implement, economically sound and socially appropriate. The
consultant should also prepare an example using the proposed pricing
criteria for selected sites, in particular for the proposed Doonsan
development site in Taej'eon.
9.       The scope of work should include the following activities:
(a) gathering of data including land and development expenses
in different sites, their time schedule, and the expected
selling cycle;
(b) studying present pricing policies and making recommendations
for pricing procedures which would be economically sound.
would maintain the financial viability of the Corporation.
and be consistent with national policies and priorities;
(c) making a detailed analysis of the policy of equal costing
for all areas within the same site, its advantages or
disadvantages for KLDC;
(d) recommending pricing methods for selling semi-developed
sites; and
(e) analyzing the cost allocation of general benefits not



- 63 -                     Annex 8 - Page 4
related to the direct beneficiaries of a given site and
apply this to the proposed Doonsan site in Taejeon.
10.      The study would be implemented by KLDC in coordination with
the Economic Planing Board (EPB) and the Ministry of Construction
(HOC). and a draft copy of the study would be made available to the
Bank. Based on comments received. the consultant should complete the
study and provide final recommendations for the pricing and cost
allocation of lane, and the share of cost of the Doonsan system to be
allotted to the central or loc.l Government. The final report should
include the advantages or disadvantages of all the options considered
a and a clear methodology that could be used to implement the
recommended cost allocation system if the land area, salable ratios,
inflation, or investments are changed.



- 64 -                    Annex 9 - Page 1
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strengthening of KLDC's Financial Management and Corporate Planning
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.         In response to Government's emphasis on urban housing
development. KLDC has expanded the developed land supplied by the
Corporation 26 times between 1980 and 1985. Annual investments
increased from W 62 billion to W 42, billion during this period, and
KLDC became one of the largest corporations in Korea. The proposed
study would provide recommendations to strengthen KLDC's financial
management, including staff increases, training, and the improvement
of accounting, management information systems and long-term planning.
Objective
2.       The objecti;e is to study the present financial, accounting.
budgeting, long-term planning and management information systems and
provide recommendations for improvement.
Scope of Work and Execution of the Study
3.        The study should analyze the present organization. systems
and procedures for accounting, budgeting, financial and management
information, as well as the existing and required organization and
staffing.
4.       The scope of work includes the following activities:
(a) analyze KLDC's budgeting and financial accounting system
with emphasis on analysis of the present organization and
staffing, budgeting flows and procedures, updating,
execution and settlement of the budget;
(b) review the shortcomings of the present accounting and
financial information system, in particular the accounting
code, the infcrmation requirements from the Branch Offices,
the standard-zation of accounting procedures in the Branch
Offices, and the schedule and flow of information to
headquarters;
(c) review the present practices of accounting for installment
sales, and for charging interest to operations or to the
cost of the projects;
(d) propose improvements for the classification and chart of



- 65 -                    Annez 9 - Page 2
accounts. book keeping and accounting procedures. and the
flow of information;
(e) reviev the information requirements for proper costing of
land development sites and for the allocation of overhead
and general ezpenses:
(f) analyze the needs for long-term financial planning and the
information requirements to maintain accurate and updated
plans. Review the weakness of the present system, both in
terms of the required organization. staffing and training.
and in terms of the flow of information, updated estisates
for all subprojects under execution. and accurate
forecasting of land acquisition, development, supply and
sa,-s;
(g)  review the present conditions and terms for land sales. end
possible iaprovements to increase inventory turnover and
cash flow;
(h) reviev the present terms for land acquisition, and the
possibility of using debentures, on commercial terms, to
finance the acquisition of land for development; and
Ci) review the computer program for financial projections
provided by the World Bank for the financial planning of
KLDC and suggest recommendations or additions to facilitate
its use by KLDC.
5.       The study would be implemented by KLDC and a draft copy of
the study would be made available to the Bank. Based on comments
received, the consultant should complete the study and provide final
recommendations for improvement of the overall financial and
management information system.



- 66 -                   Annez 10 - Page 1
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.  Mission Working Papers.
(a) Details of all land development sites (ares, investments in
land acquisition. and development) under construction or
planned for 1986-87.
(b) KLDC's investments program and project cost.
(c) KLDC's financial projections and economic analysis.
2.  Studies and Other Documents
(a) Korea Land Development Corporation. Long Term Management
Plan (1985-1991). November 1984.
(b) Korea Land Development Corporation. Management Guideline.
October 1985.
(c) Korea Land Development Corporation. Land Statistics
Yearbooks for 1983 and 1984.
Cd) Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements (KRIHS).
Problems in Land Tax System and its Policy. Janiuary 1985
(in Hangul).
Ce) National Bureau of Statistics. Economic Planning Board.
Korea Statistical Yearbooks for 1983 and 1984.
(f) Economic Planning Board. Major Statistics of the Korean
Economy 1984.
(g) Ministry of Construction. A Study on Housing Problems and
Policy Development in Korea. October 1985.
(h) KLDC. Evaluation Plan Housing and Industrial Estates Project
District. Seoul. 1986.
(i) KLDC. Regulation for Management of the New Project
Feasibility Deliberation Committee. December 30. 1985.



KOREA
URBAN lAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OrganWa  Chait d KfKoma Land Derpffient Coporatlon
(Nomr 1966)
ila d
tdacmI
4 kbntC a'.
I~adO9ke      19e14         I
ftopmW                                             I I  I  I                         6
PkV-t A                  _t                  bt9d e-4-t
ftv                       WuI*                H  N     I           '    1 
&&v i'dl                   t |                  iWaA| 
_.a~n ou.x   .w~    ii  _    3tmn   25 mgH        onr
%not     _                          S6swd
bELEt[;bAAAMbAt0-*nt   T
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aMfrm-Al



.- -;r-                                          ---- I;                               I Rp 19392R
/       _._        DEMOCRATIC AEOPLE'S REPUBLIC        .
CH. NA                                OF KOREA 
w NEPOF KONA                                      7,
-1 Ir~~~~~~~~
-  't.E OF_                                       -~
3W'       I    ~~~~KYONGGI     .,-          KANG WON
I-. .   I~'      ao         ,-  Ctiunhon ChDuOncN
DO                          0
Incho                          ,
X8s,,!jXi_HUNGSEOULC N
Ar 1~~~~~  ~~   Al Ar                              I'  BU   D
~*'.Ar...V YAAACHUNGCHONG*,
AA.A A   NAfA.~                NAMDO'
f ~~~~~r                                       I   \ , {  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- A.. AW - -WA.~~~~~~A~~. A -                    'j.                  -     UK  D
ArAl.ArDA lA _II.~*                                      J
-    4A _raV_ O.' '-r AoA                               -_r
d _, .ACAaTV   -, _ 
\CHUNGCHONG OLL A         -
r BUKDDO_
CHUNGCWONG  \. 
KYONGSGYONG SANG
NAM DO                        N t
Taejon1l      >                   BUK DO
Kvwahnaiu      ru_saTeg
/' )tf *.-'
Na~~~~                                      ~~ ->  '*,.'KYONG SAN(S
CHOLLA          tHL
NAM   DO             -                                    '---
.           :   ~~REPUBLIC OF KOREAj
--   URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT 
- - - -- ~~PROJECTi
<3  PROVINCE CAPITAL
_ _- s                                -    ~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
_,                               GATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Cheju                                    N
CHEJU CH'LA                              '         RS         'go
NDDOI                             -                                       A.0.F.R
JANULARRDY 1986



