Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AJpi >           Xq-O0
Report No. P-4209-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO t150 MILLION
TO THE
KOREA LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR AN
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 8, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1986)
Currency Unit = Won (W)
Won            = $0.00136
$1.00          = W 880 /1
W 1 million    = $1,136
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             = 3,28 feet
1 kilometer (km)        = 0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m) = 10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 hectare (ha)          = 10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres or
3,024 pyongs (py)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNB      =       Citizen's National Bank
EPB      =       Economic Planning Board
ERR      =       Economic Rate of Return
HPRC     =       Housing Policy Review Committee
ICB      =       International Competitive Bidding
LSWACO   =       Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation
KHB      =       Korea Housing Bank
KLDC     =       Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC     =       Korea National Housing Corporation
KRIHS    =       Korea Research Institute for Human
Settlements
LCB      =       Local Competitive Bidding
LTMP     =       Long-Term Management Plan
MOC      =       Ministry of Construction
MOF      =       Ministry of Finance
MOHA     =       Ministry of Home Affairs
NHF      =       National Housing Fund
OSROK    =       Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
p.a.     =       per annum
PSIDP    =       Policy Statement and Institutional
Development Program
/_ In this report "$" refers to US dollars.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower: Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC).
Guarantor: Republic of Korea.
Amount:   $150 million equivalent.
Terms:    Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The project would support a comprehensive program of
institutional and policy development for KLDC. which
includes strengthening of its financial management. studies
on pricing and cost allocation for developed land, better
accounting and management information systems, improved
procedures for project selection and evaluation, the
establishment of training programs and the adoption of land
development goals for low-income housing. Loan funds would
finance the foreign exchange cost of a four-year time slice
(1986-89) of KLDC's programs to develop urban land on a
national scale. This includes the acquisition of about 3.600
ha of land, the development and provision of infrastructure
and services to about 2.700 ha of land for housing, and
about 1,000 ha of land for industrial sites. The developed
land would provide housing to about one million persons.
about 520.000 of whom would be in the lover half of the
income distribution.
Risks:   There are no serious risks in the project.  The risk that
KLDC may be slower than anticipated in adopting
institutional and policy reforms is minimized by the
commitment of KLDC's management to the proposed
institutional programs. Regular reviews of progress by the
Bank and KLDC during project implementation would help
ensure that institutional and policy reforms proceed on
schedule. The proposed implementation schedule for land
development is feasible based on previous project
experience.
This doument has a resriced distribution d may be used by reipints only in the performance
of ther officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
Estimated Project Cost                            tS Million)-
Land Acquisition                            1122.8        0.0   1122.8
Land Development                             249.3     119.0    368.3
Engineering & Adminiatration                  13.2        4.4     17.6
Base Cost - January 1986 Prices          1385.3     123.4   1508.7
Physical Contingencies                        69.2        6.2     75.4
Price Contingencies                          244.5      20.4    264.9
Project Cost a]                          1699.0     150.0   1849.0
FinancinR Plan
Proposed IBRD Loan                             -        150.0    150.0
Other Loans                                   30.0       -        30.0
KLDC's Internal Cash Generation             1669.0        -     1669.0
Total Financing Requirements             1699.0     150.0   1849.0
Bank Fiscal Years
Estimated Disbursements      1987     1988     1989    1990       1991
$ Miion-
Annual             15       38        45      39         13
Cumulative         15       53        98     137       150
Economic Rate of Return:   16S
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5963-Ko dated May 8. 1986
Map: Republic of Korea, IBRD 19392R
a]   Including Duties and Taxes estimated at $15 million equivalent.
Interest during construction is not included, since it is not
capitalized by KLDC.



REPORT AND RECOHKEDkION OF TBE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TBE MEECUTIV DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KOREA LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
FOR AN URBAN LAUD DEVELOPENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Korea Land Development Corporation OKLDC). for
the equivalent of $150 million for an Urban Land Development Project.
The loan would be guaranteed by the Republic of Korea. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace. and would
bear interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest Economic Report entitled wKorea's Development in
a Global Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated
June 21. 1984. The following summary is based on information
collected for an economic report currently under preparation. The
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex L.
3.       Past Performance. Korea has proved itself to be one of the
most successful of developing countries. Twenty-five years ago it was
among the poorest, heavily dependent on agriculture. with a weak
balance of payments. financed almost entirely through foreign grants.
But GNP growth averaging 81 p.a. since 1960 has raised Korea's per
capita income from $180 in 1960 to over $2000 in 1984 (both in current
prices), lifted 852 of the population out of poverty. and brought the
country into the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. Today. Korea
is the world's thirteenth largest trading nation.
4.       Korea's outward orientation makes it unusually susceptible
to external shocks. But the quality of its economic management has
enabled it to adjust rapidly and decisively when shocks have occurred.
and regain its growth momentum. Korea weathered the first oil crisis
of 1973-74 through increased foreign borrowing, enhanced public sector
savings, and ezport diversification, returning rapidly to high growth
in 1975-78. The second oil crisis in 1978/79. combined with sharp
increases in international interest rates and the onset of a deep
international recession, proved more difficult to manage; these
follow ing the assassination of President Park. In 1980. Korea's
economy contracted for the first time in its modern economic history
- the GNP falling by 51 in real terms -- the balance of payments
deficit reached 9Z of GYP, and open unemployment rose to 5.21.
5.       Subsequent events demonstrate Korea's commitment to economic
adjustment. A comprehensive program of stabilization and adjustment.
supported by the Bank through structural adjustment lending and the
IMF through a series of stand-by arrangements, helped rebuild the
economy. Ezchange rate management reduced the effective ezchange rate
by 30X in 1980. and competitiveness has been assured since then by a
managed float. Monetary and fiscal policies have both been
conservative. The growth of net domestic assets decelerated from 39Z



-2-
in 1981 to 14Z in 1984. but rose to 24Z in 1985. while real interest
rates have been moved upwards gradually. The fiscal balance has been
reduced from a deficit of 4.6Z of GNP in 1981 to 1.5% in 1985,the
consequence of aggressive expenditure containment and improved public
enterprise financial performance.
6.        Longer term adjustment measures have focused on major
reforms in trade and financial policies to increase the overall
efficiency of the economy. A pre-announced program of import
liberalization and tariff reform was prepared in 1983 to be
implemented in 1984-88. Implementation has remained consistently on
schedule. As a result of the trade liberalization process, the
proportion of goods with automatic approval has been increased to 88X
so far and import tariffs have been made more uniform across
consumption, intermediate, and capital goods. Financial sector
reforms have involved privatization of the government-owned deposit
money banks. granting of greater operational autonomy to banks.
gradual steps to bring the foreign bank branches and domestic banks
into more direct competition, and creation of a variety of financial
instruments not subject to the formal system of interest rate
management. Sectoral reforms have also been pursued. In particular.
to promote industrial development, a shift from industry specific to
functional incentives is being implemented following a new Industrial
Promotion Law passed in 1985. and specific subsector adjustment
programs have been carried out. Efforts to increase the energy
efficiency of the economy have included adjustments of fuel prices.
diversification of energy sources, rephasing of the power generation
program to lower overall costs, and programs to improve energy
conservation.
7.        The economy responded well to the stabilization and
adjustment program.  Growth averaged 7.5Z in 1983-85. while inflation
was held to an average of about 4%. Unemployment was reduced to 3.8%
in 1985. while the current account deficit was cut to 1% of GNP. The
energy intensity of the economy was lowered. However, the dependence
of the economy on external developments was brought home again in 1985
when a slowdown in the OECD economies and rising protectionism sharply
reduced the growth of Korea's exports and held down GNP growth to 5%.
8.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As has been the case in recent
years. Korea's growth during the 1980a will be determined largely by
the performance of exports on the one hand and savings on the other.
The guidelines for the Sixth Plan (1987-91) call for an average growth
of 7S to be achieved via an export growth rate of 9% and a national
savings rate of 33Z by 1991. This is to be accompanied by stable
prices and a move into modest surplus in the balance of payments
current account. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic
management will be required over the next few years.
9.       The export outlook is dominated by external factors. The
outlook for OECD growth is uncertain. though the rate in 1986 is
expected to be somewhat higher than in 1985. Increasing protection
abroad and the depressed state of key export sectors such as
construction and shipbuilding add to the uncertainties. To soften the



-3 -
impact of slow growth and protectionism in the world economy, the
Government has taken measures to diversify exports across both markets
and products. Measures to rationalize the construction and
shipbuilding industries will help deal with the problem of structural
decline. Investments in domestic R$D and in skill-upgrading will help
in diversifying away from those industries where Korea no longer has a
labor-cost advantage.
10.       The medium-term outlook has recently been strengthened by
three extremely favorable developments. namely the steep decline in
the price of oil, the decline in international interest rates. and the
sharp appreciation of the Japanese yen relative to the Korean won. A
decline in the price of oil by $1 per barrel and in interest rates of
1Z reduces Korea's external payments directly by $200 million and $300
million. respectively. Furthermore. by sparking a higher rate of
vorld economic growth, these developments could provide an additional
boost to Korea's exports. The appreciation of the yen may enable
Korea to increase its exports and market share in such important
geographic markets as the US and Europe.  In particular. this
development is likely to help establish two major product lines for
Korea. samely automobiles and electronic products.
1L       National savings are being promoted partly through a process
of financial liberalization and attractive real interest rates for
deposits. partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure. and partly through measures to increase
efficiency in public sector activities. The savings rate has risen
steadily in response to these measures from 22.4X in 1982 to 28.6Z in
1985. The prospect for future targets being achieved depends on the
ability to maintain the above measures. Financial liberalization has
continued in 1985. despite short-run difficulties encountered by some
parts of the highly-leveraged corporate sector.
12.       Korea's external debt position has improved considerably
since the early 1980s. The rate of growth of outstanding debt has
been sharply reduced (from 14X in 1982 to 71 in 1985). the share of
short-term maturities in total debt has been reduced (from 34X in 1982
to 24Z in 1985), and the debt-service ratio has been stabilized. The
level of the debt was $45.6 billion at the end of 1985. and debt-
service obligations are manageable in comparison to Korea's GNP. The
size and concentration of its debt and the continuing uncertainty in
international financial markets have recently persuaded Korea to
decelerate debt accumulation sharply over the Sixth Plan period. A
target of around $51 billion outstanding debt has been set for 1991.
implying much reduced average net external borrowing of around $1
billion per year for 1986-91. Korea is also seeking a greater
proportion of its foreign capital in the form of direct and portfolio
foreign investment.
PART II - BANR GROUP OPERATIONS
13.      As of March 31. 1986 Korea had received 83 Bank loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and eight IDA Credits, totalling



-4-
$5.956.16 million in loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into
account cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a
subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date. $1,400.40 million remained
undisbursed on effective loans. mostly from commitments in the past
two years. Annez II contains a list of outstanding Bank Loans. IDA
Credits. and IEC investments as of March 31. 1986. Progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory.  Although
implementation delays have occurred. due primarily to shortfalls in
Government budgetary contributions. they have been addressed and are
being resolved. The status and plans for counterpart contributions
remain an integral part of country implementation reviews held jointly
with the Government. Despite some recent .elays. Korea's disbursement
rate remains the highest among major BDank borrowers in East Asia.
14.      The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for
Korea reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for
discrete projects concerned with micro-institutional issues to making
loans which are increasingly aimed at addressing more broadly based
policy and institutional issues. This gradual change in the Bank's
lending approach. made possible by relatively sophisticated Korean
institutions, is proceeding well. Sector loans have already been made
for highways. education and industrial finance. The BDank has also
made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL8). which complement this
approach by concentrating on issues that have a multi-sectoral impact.
15.      In 1984, the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in
Korea. which recommended that Government should stimulate non-farm
employment in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the
sector and adopt a broader and longer-term view of agricultural
problems. A fourth credit project, which was approved on May 21.
1985. will promote agricultural development through financing private
sector investments covering a wide range of agricultural production
and rural income diversification activities. It also addresses the
institutional development issues of the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation, the main credit institution serving
agriculture.
16.      Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping
improve Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving
the performance of the financial system and at developing the
technological capabilities of Korean enterprises. So far, trade and
incentive issues have been addressed through the two SALs, referred to
earlier. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial
finance. For example, the Industrial Finance Project, approved by the
Board in June 1983. supports the Government's ongoing program of
financial sector reform. The technology enhancement objectives of the
Government are being pursued with Bank support through two projects
approved in 1982. one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
CgTDC) which finances research, development and engineering. and the
other for machinery industries which is designed to provide financial
and technical assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium
machinery firms. Bank lending to Korea in FY1985 included additional
support for financial sector reform through a Second Industrial
Finance Project, as well as lending to KTDC, and for small and medium



enterprises. Future Bank lending would continue to emphasize financial
reform and technology enhancement.
17.       Since 1980. the Bank has provided some policy advice and
support for the Government's efforts at improving energy supply and
conservation policies. Following the completion of an Energy Sector
Survey in January 1985. the Bank is now better placed to provide
support for the Government's energy development program.  The
rationale and need for a power transmission and distribution loan.
which was approved on March 27. 1986 as well as the basis for
potential investment in gas transmission and distribution. emerged
during sector discussions.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the
requirements for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of
upmarket industrial diversification. The Bank's first sector loan for
education. approved in 1980. aimed at improving engineering and
management education and technician training. A second sector loan.
approved in May 1984. supports measures designed to improve
qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science and
tecbnology education.
19.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves
support for three regional development projects, two low-income
housing projects and three water supply projects.  The Bank is
assisting Korea to increase the availability of basic services such as
housing. vater supply and transportation in the cities and to improve
the functioning and efficiency of urban areas.  A Seoul Urban
Transport Project was approved in April 1985. Land development is
fundamental to the provision of all these basic services and the
proposed project would enhance the effectiveness with whicb urban
services can be furnished.
20.      The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government
to modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the
railroad, highway construction and improvement, and port expansion.
The Highway Sector Loan approved in March 1984, as well as future
operations, would address sectoral and subsectoral issues such as
improving the integration of investment planning, energy conservation
and transport efficiency related to regulation and road user charges.
Transport issues which involve macro-economic policies affecting other
sectors of the economy. such as relative fuel prices, were handled
within the context of the second SAL. A recent rail project and a
proposed ports project would also address issues of transport
efficiency in their respective subsectors.
III. BMSIC A-D URBAN LAR) DBEVLOPANWT
2L       Housins Demand and Supply. In the past 25 years, the Korean
economy has been transformed from predominantly rural-agricultural to
urban-industrial. Between 1960 and 1985. the proportion of GNP
generated by agriculture decreased from 48X to 13S. In the same
period.  the urban population increased from 30S of the total
population to 65Z.  Although the overall population growth rate has



-6-
declined significantly (from about 32 in 1960 to less than 1.5% now).
the urban population is still growing about three times as fast.  It
is estimated that by the year 2000. over 80X of the population vill be
living in cities.   The rate of urban household formation is even
higher, given the age structure of the population.   An estimated
300.000 new urban households are formed each year and this trend is
expected to continue into the 1990s.
22.        To meet the demand from the new households,  and to
eliminate, over time, the existing backlog, it is estimated that
400.000 new housing units vould be needed annually for the next
several years. In contrast, actual construction averaged only 165.000
units p.a. in the 1970O and 200.000 units p.a. in the past five
years. The net addition to the housing stock has been even smaller
(150.000 units p.a. in the past five years) due to substantial
demolition and amalgamation of older units.
23.       The w ide gap between housing demand and supply has caused
serious strains on the housing market, vhich has translated into
worsening housing conditions in terms of overcrowding, particularly in
the larger cities.   In contrast to Government objectives, the number
of housing units per 100 households declined from 85 in 1966 to 68 in
1983.   Although average space standards have improved significantly
(each household occupied an average of 47 sq m in 1980. up from 34 sq
a in 1970). many households now share a housing unit with several
other families.   In 1980. only 30% of urban households occupied a
single dwelling. while 30% shared with one other family. 18% with two
families and 22% with three or more families. Between 1970 and 1980,
the average number of urban households per housing unit almost doubled
from 1.2 to 2.2.
24.      According to the Government's plan, construction of housing
is to be shared approximately equally between the private and public
sectors, with the latter catering primarily to low- and moderate-
income families.   The share of new housing production by the public
sector has increased over the past five years. primarily because
private sector construction declined during the economic downturn of
the early 1980s, while public sector output was maintained according
to plans.   Both the growing gap between the number of households and
dwelling units and the increasing public sector share are indicative
of the constraints on the housing sector.   All developers are
confronted with a shortage of serviced land for housing construction.
The public sector has been able to offer a limited amount of financing
to all its buyers, but only about half of the privately developed
units receive any formal financing.
25.       HousinR Policies and Plans. Over the past twenty years,
housing policy has evolved from a relatively low priority to being the
key component of social policy.   When formal housing policies were
established. the initial objective was to increase the supply of
housing, and the emphasis was on direct delivery by public sector
institutions to promote home ownership especially among lower income
groups. The Korea National Housing Corporation (WIC) was established
in 1962 to complement the dominant private sector efforts. This
policy has continued with the public sector addressing the needs of



-7-
the lower income groups by building smaller and lower-priced units
than those offered by the private sector. A policy of having public
institutions take the lead in addressing major sector bottlenecks was
reinforced with the establishment of the Korea Housing Bank OKHB) in
1967 and the Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) in 1978.
Although the main policy theme has been to expand the quantity of
housing. the dominant concern for equity and a series of measures
designed to restrain prices in the sector have contributed to slower
than expected progress in improving housing conditions.   Recent
thinking among Korean policy-makers is to broaden the objectives of
housing policy to include improvements of rental accommodations as
well as owner-occupied housing and to promote increased housing
construction by the private sector.
26.       The Government's goals for the sector are reflected in its
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plans and are translated
into annual programs by the Housing Policy Review Committee (HPRC)
which includes members from the Economic Planning Board (EPB). the
Ministry of Construction (MOC). KLDC and others. HOC's Housing Bureau
prepares an annual housing plan which contains specific targets for
the public sector housing construction program. Government objectives
are to increase the ratio of houses to households (both urban and
rural) from 0.68 in 1983 to 0.75 by 1991 while continuing to increase
the floor area per person.  This will require construction of about 2
million new housing units between 1986 and 1991.   Until the early
1970s. Government's policy kept investment in the sector very low.
averaging only about 3X of GNP.   Since that time. it has climbed to
between 5% and 7% of GNP. which is typical for countries of similar
incomes and levels of urbanization. The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-
1986) specified a target of 1.460,000 new units, with 39Z to be
constructed by the public sector.   However. by end-1984. on-y about
640.000 units were actually constructed, of which 41% were accounted
for by the public sector. It is unlikely that the targets for the
Fifth Plan will be achieved. due to the recession in the early 1980s
which reduced the demand for housing. and because of the continuing
shortage of developed land on the supply side and housing finance on
the demand side (paras. 29 to 33).
27.      Housing Institutions.   MOC is the key agency in the sector.
Its Housing Bureau is responsible for housing sector policies,
planning and regulations. approval of housing conctruction plans
(whic1i are largely prepared by the local governments). and research
on housing costs. materials and specifications. MOC's Land Bureau is
responsible for land policies. development plans. price surveys and
the approval of land acquisition for public use. Two semi-autonomous
public corporations under HOC - KLDC and KNEC - were established to
deal with major bottlenecks in the sector. KLDC. the borrower for the
proposed project, develops urban land on a large scale. primarily for
housing. Since serviced land is a bottleneck for both public and
private developers, KLDC has a mandate to develop sites to serve both.
KNHC contracts with private builders for the construction of large-
scale housing projects. KNHC has produced about 227.000 units over
the past five years. or about 23% of total new construction, and sold
35.000 units in 1984.   To make public housing attractive and
affordable to low and middle-income buyers. KNHC has concentrated on



- 8 -
the smaller end of the market. In 1984. its housing units averaged 55
sq m, ranging between 30 sq a and 80 sq m.  The size of the minimum
unit is increasing slowly over time to match demand.
28       Almost all long-term financing of housing is provided by two
Government-owned institutions, KHB and the National Housing Fund
(MWF). KEB is a specialized bank (under the direction of the Ministry
of 7inance) which makes long-term loans to individuals for house
purchases. NHEF is a separate Government fund. managed by KEB for a
fee. which provides loans for the purchase of smaller houses
constructed by various public bodies such as local governments,
housing cooperatives and KNHC.
Sectoral Issues and Constraints
29.       The two major constraints in the housing sector are the
limited availability of serviced urban land and insufficient long-term
mortgage financing. which are discussed below.
30.      Scarcity of Serviced LanLd.  The provision of serviced urban
land has proved to be the most serious constraint affecting the supply
of housing. Korea has one of the highest population densities in the
world. Moreover, about 671 of the country is mountainous and thus is
not suitable for agriculture or residential construction. Agriculture
and urban development are therefore confined to some 33,000 sq km.
mainly in valleys and on low hillsides. The population density
exceeds 1.200 persons per sq km in these areas. As a result.
suitable land is intensively used for agricultural. industrial and
residential purposes.
31.      There is a broad consensus on land policies in Korea. These
policies reflect two main concerns: the need to protect agricultural
land in order to promote food self-sufficiency, and the belief that
most of the increased value in land brought about by regulatory
change, such as rezoning. and by expanded urbanization should accrue
to the general public and not to individuals. As a result. there are
some 70 laws involving several ministries which have a role in
regulating the use and transfer of land. In fact, almost half of the
sites proposed for development by RIDC since 1980 have been rejected
by other ministries due to these laws and regulations.   At present.
however, there is an awareness that the complex and time-consuming
procedures involved in applying these laws may have become a barrier
to developing an adequate supply of urban land, and the Government has
already taken some actions to streamline the administrative processes.
32.      Land ownership is widely dispersed and requires the purchase
of many small plots for a typical land development project. This
fragmentation and the desire of the population to retain ownership
have made land acquisition, especially for the private sector,
difficult and costly. The scarcity of urban land has resulted in
price increases averaging 7X p.a. in real terms, but reaching 201 p.a.
in some large cities during the past five years. Since lamd represents
a larger share of the cost of a house in Korea than in most other
countries, high land prices make housing even less affordable or
available. The Government's efforts to increase the supply of new



- 9 -
urban land under these circumstances have resulted in most of the new
land developed in recent years being through the efforts of KLDC and
KNEC. and. to a lesser extent. the Industrial Sites and Water
Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO) and local governments.
Legislation approved in December, 1985 has simplified some regulatory
processes governing land development. The proposed project would
support KLDC's efforts to provide more urban land and improve its
delivery capacity.
33.        Insufficient Housing Finance.  The other important
constraint to satisfying the effective demand for housing has been the
lack of a developed housing finance system.  Only 7S of the value of
new housing and 15% of the units built since 1967 were covered by
formal loans. In 1984. the buyers of 78% of the new units received a
mortgage which, however. covered only 26Z of the value. The remaining
74Z of the house price vas financed from savings and informal, higher-
cost borrowing. Under this essentially cash-finamced system, housing
production has been restrained, with households purchasing less
housing and later in life than in countries of comparable incomes.
The very frequent turnover of house ownership (every 3.7 years) is
indicative of the inability of prospective homeowners, in the absence
of adequate long-term housing finance,  to invest in homes that would
satisfy their medium- to long-term requirements.  Because of the
large cash requirements to purchase a house, the low- and medium-
income groups particularly have been unable to own a house. The Bamk
has recently completed a sector study of the housing finance system.
which recommends expansion of market-based mortgage lending in
conjunction with liberalization of the financial system and increased
targeting of concessionary financing through the MHF. This study is
being discussed with the Government which has given a favorable
initial response to the policy recommendations of the study.
Consideration is now being given to a possible future housing sector
loan. provided agreement can be reached on policy reforms and on
an action program to implement those reforms.
34.       Bank Objectives and Lending in the Sector.  The Bank's
lending strategy for the sector is to support high priority
investments included in Government's development plans and through
these operations to improve the efficiency of the sector institutions.
Through its support of Government's development plans in the sector,
the Bank has the following key objectives:
(a) to increase the supply of urban land by improving policies
and strengthening programs for the delivery of developed
land and housing, especially for the lover-income
population;
(b) to strengthen sector institutions, promote sound investment
planning with emphasis on least-cost alternatives, and
improve the efficiency of the use of resources; and
(c) to develop a solid financial basis for the sector, through
improvements in accounting, financial and management
information systems, and the adoption of appropriate cost
recovery and financial policies.



- 10 -
35.      Experience with Past LendinRg  The First National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project (Loan 1980-KO). approved in 1981.
supported the establishment of KLDC and promoted. through KNHC. the
provision of several types of housing units affordable to low-income
households.  Practically all of the land developed under this project
has already been sold, and about 40Z of the land and 60Z of the
housing units built on this land have been targeted for low- and
moderate-income persons. Housing construction will be completed by
mid-1986. The Second National Urban Land Development and Housing
Project (Loan 2216-KO). approved in 1982. further strengthened the two
sector institutions. KLDC and KNHC, and improved their coordination.
set social objectives for these projects end began to address housing
finance issues. Land development is practically completed, and
housing construction will be completed by the end of 1986. Both
projects have been implemented satisfactorily and have contributed to
raising Government's awareness of the need for low-income housing and
the introduction of innovations such as expandable core housing.
graduated mortgage payments and affordability analyses. In a short
period of five years. KLDC has become a key institution in the sector,
and studies financed under the above projects have provided the
Government with a good basis for improving housing policies. The
proposed project would continue and broaden the development of KLDC
initiated under these projects.
36.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Rank's support for the
proposed project would sustain the institutional and policy
improvements achieved under the tWo previous projects by expanding
those measures to KLDC's entire program. In addition. the project
w ould introduce improved procedures for key activities such as the
economic and financial evaluation of sites, project planning. the
allocation of costs and the pricing of developed land.  Better
corporate financial planning and internal management procedures would
serve to reduce the commercial risks to KLDC in the emerging
environment of lower inflation in land values and high real interest
rates. The project would also produce significant benefits for the
entire sector because of KLDC's strategic role in land development. In
particular. the economic evaluation of prospective sites, to be
introduced under this project. should have a positive impact on the
whole housing sector by demonstrating the use of sound criteria for
taking decisions on land management. The basic policies. such as
setting a minimum target for land supplied for low-income housing. and
the specific implementation program, are formalized in KLDC's Policy
Statement and Inscitutional Development Program (PSIDP).
The Borrower: The Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC)
37.      Organization. KLDC was established in 1978, taking over the
activities of the Korea Land Bank, to contribute to urban development
by the acquisition, development, reclamation and supply of urban land,
and the redevelopment of dilapidated urban areas (urban renewal) as
well as to participate in the development of new city areas or towns.
KLDC is owned by the Government (91Z) and the Korea Development Bank
(9Z) and reports to MOC. KLDC's organizational structure and staffing
are appropriate for its functions. Its Seoul headquarters includes



- 11 -
the President, one Senior Vice-President and three other Vice-
Presidents with 12 departments and about 300 persons. Twelve Branch
Offices headed by Branch Managers employ another 650 persons. Under
the Government-Invested Corporations Management Act of 1984. public
corporations have been given relative autonomy under their respective
Boards of Directors. However. their performances are monitored and
evaluated annually, and staff are rewarded with annual bonuses of up
to three additional months salary depending on the institution's
rating. KLDC's staff bonus in 1984 of about two and a half months'
salary reflects KLDC's healthy performance.  KLDC is continuing to
improve its efficiency. systems and procedures.
38.      KLDC's Policies. KLDC's policies have evolved during the
last five years and are included in its Long-Term Management Plan
(LTMP) approved in 1984, and its Management Guidelines. approved in
1985. The LTMP sets overall long-term plans and directions for the
Corporation but has yet to include clear social. financial and
economic targets. The proposed project is based on a Policy Statement
and Institutional Development Program (PSIDP) which expands and
clarifies the objectives of the LTMP.  The PSIDP includes the
institutional development program described in para. 46(a) and the
following main policies:
(a) the promotion of more efficient land use;
(b) a social policy to set aside for low-income housing about
40Z of the total residential land developed;
*c) management guidelines to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of the corporation;
(d) the use of improved demand and economic analysis for
subproject selection; and
Ce) pricing at cost for low-income housing and public facilities
and at market prices for other users.
39.      KLDC's Programs. KLDC's land development plans are based on
Government's targets under the Fifth Five-Year Plan and the draft
Sixth Plan (1987-1991). KLDC's growth during the past five years has
been impressive. Between 1980 and 1984. annual land acquisition for
development increased from 250 ha to 790 ha. land development
increased from 275 ha to 728 ha during the same period. and the supply
of developed land increased frorn 32 ha to 450 ha. Total investments
increased from $100 million to $410 million.  KLDC's plans for the
period 1986-89 are ambitious but are feasible based on past
experience. Land development investments are largely determined by
technical and market considerations and. on the average. each site
would be developed and contracted for sale within four years of
acquisition. KLDC's total investment program during 1986-89 is
planned at $2.145 million. KLDC's three main programs are summarized
belao:
(a)   Land Development Program.   KLDC's main activity is land



- 12 -
development. under which idle or marginally used land is purchased, a
development plan prepared. and the land rezoned and provided with all
of the necessary infrastructure (water, sewerage, streets,
electricity, parks. public zones. etc.). Its bylaws. experience and
financial capacity give RLDC substantial advantages in the development
of large-sized sites. During the present Five-Year Plan, KLDC would
supply 3.540 ha of serviced land in about 40 municipalities throughout
the country. Total planned investments under the Fifth Plan would be
$2.054 million. For the Sixth Plan (1987-91). KLDC plans to acquire
and service about 4.700 ha of land in about 50 municipalities, vith
total investments of $3,300 million. The land development program
provides land for both housing and industrial development. In the
past. industrial sites represented up to one third of KLDC's land
development investments, but in the Sixth Plan about 90% of
investments would be for housing development. These subprograms are
described below:
(i) Housing Site Development. Preliminary housing objectives in
the Sixth Five-Year Plan call for the public sector to provide
about 60Z of the new land developed. KLDC would provide about
half of the land to be developed by the public sector, with the
allocation among municipalities and the magnitude of the
development being determined by detailed assessments of demand.
Initially KLDC evaluates alternative unserviced sites within
municipal boundaries. After suitable sites are identified, KLDC
processes the approval for development as housing sites under the
Housing Site Development Promotion Law.  Approved sites are
purchased, planned and developed in accordance with nationl and
municipal plans and regulations. Planning incorporates national
objectives to provide low-income groups with affordable housing
(for sale or rental) and complementary commercial and public
facilities. Housing is normally completed within two to three
years after the land is developed. To shorten the schedule for
delivering houses, KLDC is now starting to sell semi-developed
land at the early stages of the project cycle. in order that
contractors could start housing construction simultaneously with
completing land development. This program also includes special
projects for the development of two large sites within Taejeon
City: one for research and academic institutions being relocated
from Seoul, and the other for expansion of the city's central
area; and
(ii) Industrial Site Development.  KLDC. following Government
requests. develops specific industrial sites. The most important
program under execution is the development of the Namdong
Industrial Estate in Incheon. which is expected to provide 900
ha of serviced industrial land for the relocation of industries
from Seoul. Land acquisition for the industrial sites presently
planned by KLDC would be completed by 1988 with development being
completed by 1990.  Housing sites complementary to these
industrial sites are also included in this program.
(b) Urban Land Renewal Program. This pilot program, started in 1984,
envriages the redevelopment of selected city areas to solve the
problems of substandard service levels. overcrowding. fragmentation of



- 13 -
ownership and inadequate planning of old neighborhoods.  The program.
which at present consists of only about 3 ha, is expected to
demonstrate the viability of the redevelopment of downtown areas and
of improving land use and environmental conditions.
&c)   Land Transactions Program.  During the 1970s, the returns on
investment in land were more profitable than most other investments
and. as a result, scarce urban land was purchased and left idle by
many companies. KLDC has been given the responsibility to acquire
idle land and resell it gradually, acting as a "land bank". After
peaking in 1982 at 5.030 ha, this program has now been reduced to the
acquisition of only about 200 ha per year.
40.       KLDC's Past Finances.  With a paid-in capital of W 229
billion (1985). KLDC is the fourth largest government-owned
corporation and the thirteenth by number of staff. Appropriate
control of expenses, efficient execution of projects,  increases in
land prices (averaging 7X p.a. above inflation in the main cities
during the past five years). and high demand for land all contributed
to KLDC's excellent financial performance in recent years.  In 1985,
KLDC's net profits before taxes vere equivalent to 45Z of its sales
and 36Z of its equity. These profits, however, partly result from
inflation, since the cost of the developed land (which is purchased
and developed some years before) is not adjusted for inflation.
KLDC's debt-to-equity ratio was 0.9. its debt service ratio vas 5.3.
and net internal sources financed 73% of its total investments.
41.      Strgthening of Financial Management. KLDC's growth during
the past seven years has been impressive, with annual investments
increasing six times between 1980 and 1985 and the developed land
supplied increasing 22 times over that period. KLDC has thus become
one of the largest corporations in Korea.  Despite this tremendous
growth, there are still weaknesses in its financial management and
information systems, including lack of sufficient staff. A number of
improvements in this area are included in the project (para. 46 (a)).
mainly through the introduction of computers for project analysis and
for general accounting and inventories. KLDC has also agreed to
reinforce its Financial Management Division with additional financial
and accounting staff.   The PSIDP includes studies to improve KLDC's
financial management and corporate planning, thus providing a solid
basis for the future development of KLDC.
42.      Future Finances. Financial projections indicate that KLDC's
financial position is expected to remain good. KLDC's net operating
income on sales vould average 282. the debt service ratio would exceed
1.9. and the income before taxes on equity vould average 19%. KLDC's
investments during the next four years are estimated at $2,140
million, equivalent to four times its total equity in 1985. About
76.5Z of these investments would be financed from internal cash
generation. primarily through the sale of land purchased and developed
before or during this period (para. 49). Sensitivity analysis shows
that both land prices and the efficiency of the project cycle are very
important for KLDC. KLDC's profitability in a given year depends on
the success of the individual sites. typically purchased four years
earlier, and is influenced by factors such as the development



- 14 -
schedule. the time required to sell the developed site, the portion
sold at cost (for low-income housing), the average selling price and
payment terms, and the prevailing market conditions. Therefore, key
variables for KLDC's financial viability are proper site selection and
evaluation, both of which are to be improved under the PSIDP. To
protect KLDC's financial position, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that KLDC would not incur any additional long-term debt
without prior Bank concurrence if its debt service coverage falls
below 1.3 in any calendar year.
43.       To achieve the Government's social objectives, and to
maintain housing affordability for the lower-income population, land
for smaller-sized housing units would be sold at cost. The remaining
land would be sold at appraised market prices. It is therefore
important for KLDC to review its cost allocation and pricing
practices, which include taking into consideration location and other
advantages within a given site, the timing of the sale and, in some
cases, the level of infrastructure provided for a particular location
within a site. In addition some city center sites would also have
development costs which would benefit the entire city or even the
country (i.e. public parks, inter-city highways. etc.). Allocation of
such costs to some individual sites may increase selling prices
unreasonably. Improved pricing procedures in these areas would enable
KLDC to allocate and recover costs which may not be recoverable from
the direct beneficiaries. A pricing study, to be completed by mid-
1987, is included in the agreed PSIDP.
IV. THE PROTE,
44.       Project Origin and Formulation.  The proposed project is
an important part of the Government's plans to improve the
availability of serviced land for urban development and housing in
Korea. It builds upon the general objectives reflected in the LTMP
for the period 1985-1991. which was prepared by KLDC with the
assistance of advisers from local universities and research
organizations in consultation with government agencies. The project
has been designed to provide a detailed and sound basis for the
successful implementation of the LTMP. The project was appraised in
November. 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in April.
1986. the Korean delegation being led by Mr. Kim Young-Bin. Financial
Attache to the Korean Embassy. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5963-KO)
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
45.      Proiect Objectives. The proposed project would improve both
the policies and performance of a key public institution in the urban
sector as well as support its programs to develop a significant
portion of newly developed urban land.  The project would address
what is presently the most critical constraint for housing
development. The main project objectives are 'to:
(a) strengthen KLDC's mAnagement and administration;
(b) establish corporate goals for serving the low-income
population;



- 15 -
(c) improve KLDC's project evaluation procedures, and its cost
allocation and pricing policies; and
td) support KLDC's urban land development program.
46.        Project Description.   The project encompasses KLDC's
comprehensive program to improve its policies. procedures and
management. In support of this program. the proposed Bank loan would
finance a four-year time-slice (1986-89) of KLDC's land development
program and the implementation of the PSIDP.   The main cost item is
land acquisition (about 75Z). KLDC's land transaction and urban
renewal programs do not require Bank support at this stage: the former
because it is mainly a land banking function which is well financed by
debentures; and the latter because it is a small pilot effort.
(a) Policy and Institutional Development. Although KLDC is generally
well organized and managed, some areas require improvements. A main
component of the project would improve KLDC's policies. procedures and
management practices. The main vehicle to achieve these objectives
would be the PSIDP. which describes KLDC's policies (para. 38) and its
proposed program for institutional development which includes: (a) the
strengthening of KLDC's financial management; (b) the establishment of
improved criteria for physical planning; (c) a review of cost
allocation and pricing policies; (d) the establishment of information
systems for project planning and financial management, and the annual
updating of short-and medium-term corporate plans. including
development programs and financial projections; (e) the establishment
of training programs and the construction of a training center: and
Cf) the establishment of computerized accounting and payroll systems.
The Institutional Development Program would be fully implemented by
December 31. 1987 and all studies and review reports would be sent to
the Bank for comments.  The PSIDP was reviewed and agreed at
negotiations and is expected to be approved by KLDC's Board of
Directors in May 1986. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that KLDC would review annually with the Bank the progress achieved in
the implementation of the Institutional Development Program. The
first such review to take place not later than October 31. 1986.
(b) Land Development. The project's land development component
includes the acquisition of about 3.600 ha of land and the
development of about 2.700 ha of land for housing and 1.000 ha of land
for industrial sites. In total. about 3.700 ha of serviced land
spread over about 120 sites would be supplied (available for sale) by
KLDC during this period.
47.       Subproject Approval. KLDC's site selection and subproject
evaluation would use improved demand and feasibility analyses. and
each subproject approved would meet agreed financial criteria and an
economic rate of return higher than the opportunity cost of capital.
A detailed methodology for the financial and economic evaluation of
subprojects has been agreed with KLDC, and a computer program prepared
for this purpose was applied to the main subprojects proposed for
1986-87. which were found acceptable. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that these criteria would be used for the approval of all



- 16 -
subprojects. Feasibility studies for subprojects above 100 ha would be
suiject to prior Bank review before being accepted for Bank financing.
The remaining subprojects would be evaluated by KLDC and reviewed by
the Bank during project supervision.  KLDC's annual programs and
investments would be reviewed and updated on a regular basis (para.
53).
48.      Project Cost.   The proposed project focuses on KLDC's land
development program for 1986-89, estimated to cost $1,849 million
including foreign exchange requirements of about $150 million (8.1).
Including contingencies, the land acquisition cost is estimated at
$1,391 million. land development costs at $434 million, and
engineering, administration and technical assistance at $24 million.
Taxes and duties are estimated at about $15 million. The base cost is
expressed in January 1986 prices.   The project is in an advanced
stage of preparation, and cost estimates are based on detailed designs
for the first year of construction and recently awarded contract
prices for similar works.  Physical contingencies have been estimated
at 5% of base costs because of KLDC's experience w ith works of this
kind, and the programmatic characteristics of the project. Costs for
project planning, design and studies include about 1.000 man-months of
consultants services including about 40 man-months of foreign
consultants. Estimated price increases over the project period amount
to about 16.7% of base costs plus physical contingencies.   Price
increases for foreign costs are estimated at 7.2% for 1986. 6.8Z for
1987-88. and 7.0% for 1989. and for local costs at about 4Z for 1986
and 5% for 1987-89. Land acquisition costs are estimated to increase.
on the average, by 2 percentage points over the expected increases in
local costs. It is estimated that exchange rate adjustments would, on
average, maintain "purchasing power parity" during the project
implementation period.
49.       Financing Plan. The proposed Bank loan of $150 million
would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost (8.1%) of KLDC's
1986-89 land development program of $1,849 million. The remaining
cost would be financed by net internal cash generation. $1.669 million
(90.3%). and domestic loans of $30 million (1.6Z). KLDC's total
investment program of $2,145 million during 1986-89 would be financed
as follows: the proposed Bank loan (7.0%). net internal cash
generation (76.5Z). land bonds (4.7%), corporate bonds (5.8%). other
loans (4.9%) and equity contributions (1.1Z).
50.      Procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 1 below.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would be required for all civil works contracts, about 20. which
exceed $10 million each.  As in the previous urban projects, foreign
contractors are not expected to be interested in these works due to
the experience and efficiency of the local construction industry and
the wide distribution of works over time.  The remaining civil works
contracts would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in
accordance with procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and
are satisfactory.  Contracts over $4 million each would be bid among
prequalified contractors.



- 17 -
TABLE 1 - PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW: COSTS AND BAIK FINANCING  ($ Mln) a]
-  PROCUREMENT METHOD --
TOTAL
PRQJECT ITEM:                 ICB      LCB   OTHER        COST
Civil Works, Engineering
and Studies            300       158        -        458
(125)      (25)    ( - )      (150)
Land Acquisition and Taxe6 b]  -        -       1,391    1,391
TOTAL                        300       158      1.391    1,849
(125)      (25)    C - )      (150)
a] Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b] Purchased by negotiation based on appraised values.
51.      Prior Bank review would be needed for civil works contracts
over $10 million. which would include about 65% of the value of all
contracts. This is adequate, since procurement documents would be
standardized in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and KLDC is
well experienced with Bank procurement procedures. Advance
contracting amounting to about 3% of the value of the project is
=secommended for contracts bid after project appraisal.  This would
help expedite the program. Consultants for project planning and
design would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines from a
panel of 16 local consultants who have performed satisfactorily under
previous projects.  In order to develop and retain internal expertise
on institutional and management improvement matters. KLDC plans to
have its staff take primary responsibility for most of the studies
proposed in the PSIDP, with the support of advisors and consultants
where appropriate. Project supervision would be carried out by KLDC
Branch Office staff with general services being provided from
Headquarters.
52.       Disbursements. The Bank would finance about 8.1% of the
project cost. To reduce the number of disbursement applications, the
proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed only against civil works
contracts of more than $4 million each. Disbursements against these
contracts would be at 60% of contract cost. This would include about
30% by nmber and 75% by value of all contracts.  The Bank-financed
program would comprise about 40 contract packages varying in size
between $4 million and about $25 million. A Special Account of $12
mil iin  would be established to expedite loan disbursements for
eligible expenditures.   Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to
take four and a half years. which is similar to the profile for
comparable loans in Korea.  The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1990.
53.      Project Implementation.   The project would be implemented
by KLDC with the assistance of advisors and consultants for
feasibility studies, planning, detailed engineering and institutional
development. These activities, and procurement through OSROR. would
be coordinated by Headquarters staff under the Senior Vice-President.
who would also provide liaison with the Bank.   The annual



- 18 -
implementation schedule is realistic, based on experience with
previous projects.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
KLDC would send to the Bank, not later than February 28 of each year.
starting in 1987. projections of development programs, project
execution, financial projections and monitoring indicators for the
next five years. and within six months of the loan closing date would
prepare a project completion report.
54.       Accounts and Audits.   KLDC's accounting procedures are
satisfactory, and its accounts have been audited satisfactorily since
1981. The Bank's recommendations to make these audit reports more
comprehensive and detailed were incorporated in the Audit Report for
1984. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within six
months of the end of each fiscal year. KLDC would furnish to the Bank
an audit report of its accounts, financial statements and the Special
Account, as audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
55.       Project Justification and Benefits. By strengthening the
programs, policies and management of KLDC, the proposed project would
facilitate the development of serviced land throughout the country.
thus helping to alleviate one of the most difficult bottlenecks in the
provision of housing in Korea. The project would supply some 3.700 ha
of land in a balanced environment including well-planned housing
sites with provision for schools and other public facilities, green
areas and commercial and industrial zones. This includes about 1.000
ha of industrial sites to create employment and promote development.
It is estimated that about 250.000 housing units would be constructed
on this land, providing housing for more than one million persons.
About forty percent of the land developed for housing will be supplied
to low-income housing programs. Given the smaller size and higher
density of these units, more than half of the project beneficiaries
(about 130.000 families or 520.000 persons) would be in the bottom
half of the income distribution.  KLDC's program of land development
will generate an increased supply of serviced land and new dwellings.
which will make lower priced, existing housing, available for poor
families, which represent only about 12% of urban households as
defined by Bank guidelines. The project would also provide
construction jobs while helping to solve housing problems.
56.       Cost Recovery and Affordability.  The project would recover
all financial costs, including land acquisition, development.
infrastructure, management costs and interest during construction.
Since the housing situation is worse for the lover-income population.
and since Government wants to balance its financial and social
objectives. KLDC plans to adopt for its overall program the target to
provide 40% percent of the developed land for low-income housing.
These programs provide smaller units, which are affordable to
households in the second quartile of the urban income distribution.
Most of these housing units would be built by KNHC, the cities, and
housing cooperatives under Government's public housing construction
programs. To make housing affordable to the target population. KLDC's
policy is to price low-income housing sites at cost, but to charge
appraised market prices for other users.   This would enhance
affordability while maintainins a satisfactory financial position for
the corporation.



- 19 -
57.      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic evaluation of each
site would be required as part of the proposed improvements in site
appraisal criteria (para. 47). The main subprojects to be undertaken
in 1986-87 show an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) between 132 and 40%.
The cost stream includes the cost of land and development. and the
benefits are calculated by using the estimated market price for the
developed land sold. An analysis was made of the total land to be
acquired between 1985 and 1989. and of the time and expense required
to develop and sell it. The ERR based on the average unit cost of
acquisition and development, the estimated market prices for land, and
the real price increases in land (averaging 2% p.a.) due to its
increasing scarcity, is 16X. Sensitivity analysis shows that if the
development costs are 15X higher, the ERR is 13%. In the improbable
circumstances that land prices for the supplied land decline by as
much as 10%. and simultaneously development costs are 15% above
estimates, the ERR would be 5%. However, in this case, KLDC would
take corrective action by eliminating lower return investments from
its program. If no increases in land prices are included, the ERR is
15%. The implementation of the social pricing policy for low-income
housing would result in KLDC's average selling price of about 20%
below market prices. The incremental financial rate of return, based
on these prices and including tax expenses is 8Z. which is well above
the real cost of capital to KLDC.
58.       Project Risks. There are no serious risks in the project.
The risk that KLDC may be slower than anticipated in adopting
institutional and policy reforms is minimized by the commitment of
KLDC's management to the proposed institutional programs. Regular
reviews of progress by the Bank and KLDC during project implementation
will help ensure that institutional and policy reforms proceed on
schedule. The proposed implementation schedule is feasible based on
previous project experience.
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 8. 1986
Washington. D.C.



-20 -                                          ANNEX I
T AI L     1
UH: :min;IC o    - ao& thI3C3BP,
xoua,~   ~     OI                      (.WfI ofi _ _ 1 X_ _ 
10^   117d108=TgaUU                "MS E 77C              LULT. uC G c
mu CTOOM.                                a. a0
ainanumIIs                                      ..
.A* MWCUo L                        20.4       21.2        22.1
m a gm APS  3                          ..         ..       2010.0            1011.1                   1613.9
(KI RAOU  OF OIL ErUwVALUIT       143.0      433.0      L104.0             3"64                     13.6
POIULO.nIDIUA  (IOUUA)  23003.0    12241.0    351.0
usag rPrOPATIO (C Olr 1Tra         27.7       41bt        02.3              35.9                     07.7
POPULATEOU IN vuA 2000 (NILL)                           50.3
STATIOUR POPULATION (EQLL)                              70.0
FOLno  MUTW                                              1.*
PO9ILATION   sNUTV
iRu sq. a.                      253.9      327.4       405.7             NO.9                      06.0
pt  SQ. Mt. sat. LAW           U223.2      1367.3     1703.9            1591.2                     91.1
PPULAflN AIR STRUCIRN (Z)
0-14 nRs                        42.9       42.0        31.3              36.2                     36.5
13-4  NS                         53.7       54.6        6U.2              57.7                     37.1
6u AM ABE                         3.1        3.2         4.2               3.5                      4.2
POPULATION Gour, RATE (R)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.3         1.0               2.1                      2.4
URB                               4.7        6.4         4.4               4.1                      3.6
cumsg aImTS KM (Pi TNW)            42.6       30.4        22.8              30.1                     30.9
cumn  DASa  RATE ("M NOUS)         13.7        9.6         6.2               9.4                      3.0
cGosS ummanou UTC                  i2.         2.1         1.3               1.9                      2.0
FANILY PLAJIUW
CCiT6S*. ANUAL (CICS)            ..       671.0
Us   (C oF HARRIZ      )          .         25.0        33.0              56.5                     43.3
[*5DC0 FO PR OS. PER CAPITA
(190-71-100)                      89.0        3.0       125.0             124.4                    1094
Pr CAPIA SumY or
CALORIES R oF RU      E.0                   103.0      126.0             113.7                    113.2
PROTEINS (GLC1  PE DAT)          53.0       02.0        63.0              60.3                     0.4
0r UNICM ASTRAL AND PULSE        7.0        6.0        14.0 /c           14.1                     34.2
CQILO CAS 1-4) OAT  RATE            7.1        4.9         2.0               7.2                      4.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT 31RTH (TEARS)      53.9       59.1        07.4              60.0                     64.8
INFANr NR. RA  (PE  TOUS)          7S.5       S0.0        29.0              64.9                     ".7
ACCESS TO SANE MAT1 (MP)
rOTAL                            12.1       5S.0        76.0 Id           46.0                     *3.3
URA                              18.6       ".0          6.0 77           57.6                     76.5
RaU.                              9.5       3S.0        61.o 77           37.1                     44.2
aCCSS TO ETCOEA DISPOSAL
CZ Of POPMLATION)
TOTAL                             ..        23.0       100.0 Id           30.1                     56.3
URBAN                             ..        59.0      I1.O 77             52.9                     71.4
ORAL                              ..         ..       W100.0             "4.7                      25.3
POPULATION PER PIIYSICI          3540.0     2240.0      1440.0            7731.7                   1909.7
PM. PER NURSING "WON             3240.0 le.f 1790.0 If   350.0            2464.8                    606.2
POP. PE  NPITAL SD
TOTAL                          2510.0      l950.0      960.0            1112.1                    342.0
UtBA                           1280.0 to  1100.O       750.0 IL          651.4                    422.0
RIUL                              ..         ..          ..             2596.9                   271G.7
ADNI IODS PER  OSPITAL ED           ..        14.9         ..               41.1                     27.5
AVERSE SIzE OF NISIILO
TOTL                              5.6        5.2         4.5
URW                               5.4        4.9         4.4
RUAL                              3.6        5.5         4.7
AVERSE NO. Of PERSUSIRO
TOTAL                             2.5        2.3
URBA                              2.3        2.7
RUAL                              2.&        2.2
PERCETAGE OF  MELLIDWS  ITK ELECTr.
TOTAL                            28.4       49.9
Una                              67.3       92.4
RURAL                            12.4       29.9        64.9 IC



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
LLLLLJ&ZML
19uLk  I970Lk ETDIATELk    AA14  PAa1tC           LATr. aanC& G CaM
aDJUUIUe E^lUU       RATIOS
pRDan=$  TOMl                     94.0       103.0       100.0              100.7                     106.7
NamE                    9.0        104.0      102.0              104.4                     103.3
U9.0       103.0 9o.0                     97.2                     104.6
IE0*!  TOTA.                  27.0        42.0       19.0               47.8                      44.2
NuL                     33.0       50.0        94.0               50.4                      42.7
VALE                    14.0       32.0        35.0               "A *4.9
VOnaTiOKL Ca alp UEWNDIa!           14.2        14.3        L3.1               13.4                      13.3
PPUP-Tlh=R l AU
PRIIm     I                       33.0        57.0        42.0               30.4                      29.9
SEUCUDARI                         34.0        37.0        29.0               22.2                      16.7
PA33IU 1CARS/TUDANDPM                0.5         1.9         6.5 j             10.1                      43.0
RADIO 3ICUWB3/IUOUIAMD 101          31.2       124.4       432.2              172.9                     323.3
TV 93MVRS/TI10U3AIIDO16              0.3        13.0       174.1               53.5                     112.4
uuuwARS. ('DAIL GE11EAL
INTEUM) CIRCUSISO
P  TSOU3AND POMULATIO              63.2       136.3       192.3               65.3                      31.L
CSA ANWUAL ATfEIDM/CAPZTA            4.1         5.2         1.1                3.4                       2.4
TOTAL LUOR FORE (TIOMS)           8304.0    11283.0    16013.0
7111LR(PERcENT)                   26.1        32.7        32.                33.6                      23.6
AURZGELSD3 (PERcENT)              66.0        50.0        34.0 t             52.2                      31.4
Munn (PECENT)                      9.0        17.0        29.0               17A9                      24.3
PARTcIPATIOu IATZ (PERCNT)
TOTAL                              33.2       35.0        40.1               33.9                      33.5
KILE                              49.5        46.3        53.1               50.3                      51.3
PENILE                             17.2       23.0        26.1               26.3                      15.9
EC0b1C DEENDENCT RATIO                1.4         1.3        0.9                1.1                       1.3
_ZCT  aiO MZ  inuv:n
ARiUM  n
IGIIST 50 Or SoEDS                  ..        17.1        16.1                .
IGEEST 20 OF  OUSIOLDS              ..        44.5        45.3               4.0..
U.6ST 20S OF OSELOS                 ..         7.1         5.7  j             6.4
LOST 4      OOSNO                   ..         17.7       16.9  j            15.5
r3M   -   -0000
-D   Sow     POVTY ICK
LEV   CS PER CAITA)
VISAN                              ..          ..        320.0 /h             ..                      23.3
L                                   ..         ..        270.0 r            151.9                     135.3
-  usn mrTe
EEL  CMU  W1 cAP
U                                   ..         ..        370.0 j            I".9                      51.
RUL                                ..          ..        310.0 Jj           164.7                     359.7
TMTD  POP. SW  ASO
POVZRTY INCOhS LEVEL (Z)
Um                                  ..         ..        1U.0 b              23.5
RUIAL                               ..         ..         11.0E              37.6
NOT AVAtLABLE
NT AIPPLICABL
N O TS  S
/a   The grouP arae for each indicator 4gg paplatiob.WUlghtepd aritbmtic names. Covenr  of ceutrU
ang the ldicators depend. on avalLBblUty of data an  lo  et unit o?
Zb  Ua1e. otheraee noted. 'Data for 1960 troer to any year betwes  1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' betwee
1969 a   1971; and data for *root baeat Utint."_ between 1931 nd 1933.
/c   L977; /d 1930;  o 1962; if Reglmtrmd. not all practis    Lo the country; 1, 1976; &  1973.
J. 193



ANNEX I
-22-                                        PAGE 3
D>MONM OIF SOCUL INOW-T
comebla b am o_ td  atb 1 _s dildddd.ioaa an     p      d by dilmcom mD in oict tl dada.nThe daa  ama__dm   erul 
d.cte rdem of _mantud indi_ trend1 ad dcer wia  mapor dili betwe- coufe.
The rnfma uwae ane (1) dh   br comey group or t aubjem contry and (2) a couatry gmrop wth soancwhe hge avaup inamou in the cogtry
ygroup orse _bj   sun    mpth h t . Ol _0p i grou whae 'Middkl nacow   ?nh Africs ad Midde Er iadm be or.o
boco.matind aUnJskimsl In the reJerop  dm de aveXM  a popsula weighted erihn.tc eain for et indcaor mnd shown only whn majon
stow nt. ia a poop headat fo thAadcnm  Siezet cavtap ofcwami  among tw idcum depdan the waabiity of data ad I nt unlfosm
caution mm be cised ia rdating avierao an udirar to aothe. Th_ evemps an only usrul tn campringime valu of on indkaiaor at to among
the coary a.d irn    grqm
AREA (thound sqknL)                                           Crxde hh Rbte (pm sthimmd)-Number of live brt  in the yr
rasf,-Tottal, sfac am cmpring land aa ad inland water         per thousand of mid-yer population; 1960. 1970. and 193 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     C*G De" Ru (per th.mod)--Number or deaths in th year
*gdeiwd-Estm-te of agricultul area usd tetnporrily or         per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dat.
pennaendy for crops. pastures, market and kitchen prdens or to  Gre d. RaCe-Average number of daughtes a wota
tie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she ee _
present ag-specific fatlity rates; usually five-yarage. eran
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP pe capta simates at current          in 1960. 1970, aqd 1983.
market prices, calcuated by same converson method as World    Agil PkinA-Accepter. Anua (thessainfi)-Annual nun.
But Ada (1931-3 basis). 1933 dats.                            ber orfacpto of birth-contrl devces underauspicesofnat al
ENERGY CONSUMPIMON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family pl       program.
consumption of commecial primary energy (coal and lignite.    F-ely Pk-r-U- (pte  of Jwejd wmmmu)-The peen-
petroleum, natual ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec   tage of married women of cild-bearing age who are practcing or
tricity) in kilopams of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. women
1982 data.                                                    of chld-bearing age are geneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups.
Toal w popbt. Jsd-Yaw' (trhomads)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUJRMION
and 1933 dtaL
Ur     pere fo Raifratoalt oPer Cept (1969I7- 10g)-Index of per
Urlation;       (peren t e f f rienltRao of urban  ctomaE  ca pita annud     p   roduction of al food commodities Pduction
opulation; d fferem  definitions o urban areas may affect compar  excludes animal feed and seed for agricultur  Fooa commodities
ability of datauamong countries, 1960. 1970. and 1983tdata.   include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugr)
Popublt. Awjecriod                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comprise cereaL, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegeables. fruits. nuts. suprcane and sugar beets livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Agrte production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 1961.65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capt SWpA  Of C ri (peret ef         uieur)-.Conput-
Stafonary population-hs one in which age- and sex-specific mor.  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacemntt level  uon. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. zhe age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charactrstics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weight.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decine of fertili:y  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percetfor
rate to repceteat Ievd.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popdation Moenntum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Cpa Supipy of Poetin (gra  per t do-Protein content of
continue beyond the ttme that replacement-level fertibty has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived: that is even after the net reproducion rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a-population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 gams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be aninal protein. These standardsame lower than those of
ment level frorn year * onward. 1985 data.                    75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
E _  De.Rs                                                    average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJbk.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Capi Ptein SApp  born Anl md Phv-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agrwulrural lad-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Ppepado. Age Sauetw  (pereem)--Children (0-14 years). work-   Cil (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per trhssd)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 vears and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 datm             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
P,pal.ri. Growth Rate (percent)-tformlm-Annual growth rates of  from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Populdan GrowC Rte (perent)- _rtu-Annual growth rates         Lt Expecrawy at Brt 1ew( )-s--Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prcvailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                       PAGE 4
a the dm of of its birth wa to say the -  thougho  its lik   l PEcbwhor Jib - p*1W7. afd memf-Total udento n.
M  Ii ad 190 1ata,                                          roled aI pumy ad scomds  kvel divided by numb   or
=             5   ( #k-Ntnhe  of infant win die    teacher in the corempondin levels
hu f_ e a  yew   ap per tdo nd live brth in a Ovm
yew, IfO 1970 ad 1913 da 
do'&     lSor _011111 d_f         _611,_ _d              P= Wc    (PM  _H_dc    cm
Jed-Namber of people (1l uban and r1) n   wih re    be        -  motor ea 11111t a  tha eht pem   endud  ambol
i   to m   wawnepy (hdeen            d - ursam wa-n or      almab heue and nilty vehideL
msi b ht m        mimpd water mb-UntIo   qpaee                            (                               ofr
boolm. e       ad m"-       e) ,aspe=&mp.ofrtherr ip.ts                                                    o
tiepauuio.I an when ma a pubi fotasain or stamdpao           ortii esc  dclm t pacerali coubbcip s adwm  ornoyauiwhn:
locaeud so  oom  2n  meow fom a h or                        exduny be mas-licemad   as in cou'   t and in years _ny
an   ng  'i _ e       s oi   of dht boo. In rual -               e     ar W = 
ziaml  ~aimsMbouldhythanhaousewife or meombeof the             bcop iem mm mu    bddlcnst
o     ad do ot av to _I_dadippropooate port he day           TI.  r r                                            TV _V  o a
ul hom  be &      s wat_es                                  to _RW publi per Mo-sW              esoouno             TV
Aeon etg thex    iy   wane                                   recevr in couni and in ye= whe retruato of TV ss wa
pwam       4111110& Arkall.  ~in erfect.
ofW pleopi (totsL urb  and mna) srved by
dipoel a petmap  of dhir rsetve pop            L an   Nuii     GkFWCh     (pS tniU-S            owl the av-er
Exam dispos ay  include the coeios ad dipoL  wi or          ag ocuadon of -daiy genea  int  ewPae"  defimd n a
without tae  or human e_a  and wastwater by water-           piodicl pulication devoted primarily to rordig generams.
bone anarnee or the m of pit privis and similr instlations   It is coad      to be daily if it appa   t efour ma wa.
hPkd     w _%         1.I.w_ divided by number af prac-     C        A      A       pw Cps p5' Yap-bud oan th
tisingpyim   quae frm a medical school a  niversity level. aumber of          sold durn  the ye. icludn admissis to
,w I        ~ladD ?.'sain-lipuatindivided by number of  dmve-u cms mid mobile unit
practicing male anm  femae  aduat nurss. assistan nurse,       C   FC
pract iluru and nusi  aui    sOR FO.E
InI_  ,pS' ,                        nad          U          Tod Labw #Wm (rahd-Econamically actve persons. in-
(toital. wurba  and rural) divided by tbeir  peivc numb  of    dng armed foes and unemployed bau ecling bouewives
bo-  lbdsavailblein public  d pivtre, Fenal ad spealimd          .   c. covering populato  of al ams.   etiion in
ho.pita an d ebilitato  cnes Hospitals are eabishmen        various aunt m   not co_pa        1960. 1970 and 193 data.
permanently sta   by at least one physiian. Eblishments p_oy-   l (Pffcv -Fenal labor fom  n penoagf tootl labor
ding princialy catodl ca  are not inlude  Rural bospitals   for
however:  u  health andomedicalctenotperma ystf d           Agmlwe (prsear)-Labor fro    n farming forsury. hunig
by a pysia (but by a medica assistant, nunr. midwife. ec)   and fishn ma pe=ta  of totl bbor foix   1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer in-paient acommodation and provide a limited rag  data
Of medicl faciltis                                           lath    (Parmj-Labor force in amning consuction, manu-
A'._ pm HmId 5.-Totdl number of admissions to or            fcurg and electricty. water and psas pe tap of total labor
frm hospital divided by the number of beds         force: 1960. 1970 and 1910 data.
HOUSING                                                     or activity rates are computed a totaL mle and fem-   bor form
Avuqe Su . H           (          &      d      .           as pentages of total malee and femal popubli  of all ap
mdmwr-A houehod eonst of agroup of individualswhosare    respectvel, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tbee ae basd on WILOs
lvn qurtes and teir nmamn   A boarder or odger may or       picipn rates rcting ag-estn          ofthc popu , and
my not be included in the houshold for statistical purposes.  long time   d. A few estma  are from natonal sout.
Arsg N      wr .f Pesan pA Roem-wid, salem. ad _W--           Ea.m  Depeadsacy Rati-Ratio of population u     S. and
Averg number of pemons per loom in all urban and rual       65 and over. to the working age populaton (those agd Is44).
occpied conventional dwellngs respectivdy. Dwelg exdude
non-permanent stmctr  and unoccupied pum                    INCOME DSTRDUUION
Ar1,1111" .fDwe1agI   Erplm. ad                               Avinge of Tad Dssar   nicm. (bah in cshk ad ModO-
Conventional dwlin  witeh ecticiy in livinSqurtrs a pea-    Accruing to percentile groups of houhokls ranked by total houe-
tap of totaL urba  and ral dwdlns respectiey.                old income.
EDUCATION                                                   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A_insd Em'&e_  R_ad                                         The foflowing estimtes are very approximate meaes of poverty
Rbwy shxal - *ta.          d                  dfakG tnd     leves, and sbould be interpreted with considable caution.
fea enlmt of al w  at the prmay levd as prent of            E_dAh _ huwt   &   Lad fCUp    rqa-__
respectve pimy school-age populatn  Whle many counries      ad ra-Absolute poverty income levd is that inco   level
conider prmy shool aF to be 6-11 ys others do r>L The       below which a minimal nutritioally adequat dtit plus essentil
diffee     in country pris in the ages and duration of shool  non-food requirements is not affordabl.
ae reflected in the raios ven. For some countres with universal      Rej4 5 fajgh ty far... Laud (US$pgr crqpta-,w6
education, s     enrollment may exed 100 petcent since somc  ad tW-Rural mrative povertY income levd is one-third of
p.ils ae below or abowv the cauntW's staidard pmry-chool    avrage per capita peonaw income of the country. Urban kvd is
age                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustmet for higher cost of
Secom&7 sdiot - total. mke amldfuie-Computed as above;    living in urban aes.
scodry eduto requires at kast four yeas of approved pi-   Eatmmd hpaic Bdow Aheharl veyr farm Leid (p.-
may imuct_  provides gerL voional or teacer training        co-ld _          azdw- Pae ent of population (urban and runl
intut   for pupils mally of 12 to 17 years of ag correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
cam course are generally cluded.
Vorgmu E        e (percmtf saco-day)-Vocational institu-              Compartive Analyss and Data Division
tiom include tehncal industrial, or other prosrams which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Depment
ndependently or an departmts of seondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 24-                                               LURE 5
24                                  ~~~~~~~PAGN
Populatoa       39.955 (1983, thousands) /a
ON per caplta: Us$2,010 (1983) la
Kos"A - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Assnt-Q cr"rs
A_mt
(million US$ at                       Anul Lrowth ra t  (1)
curnt price)                     Actual                   etimted    Prolected
Indcator                                    1984            1981     1982    1983    19U/c          1985         1990
ISOKAL ACOUNIITS
GCos domestic product /a                 81,075            6.9      5.5      9.5      7.9          7.3          7.5
Agriculture                            11,285           24.5      4.1      6.3      0.4          3.5          3.5
Industry                               33,166            5.0      6.8    13.1    10.9           10.0         10.0
8urvice                                36,623            3.1      4.9      7.4      7.0          6.5          6.5
couampti                                 58,828            3.2      4.3      6.3      5.1          5.3         7.8
emos nvent                               24,308            2.2    13.1    13.7    12.4            11.2          7.6
ports of GMIlS                           31,194           17.0      6.9    13.8       7.9         11.3         8.3
lIports of GIllS                         30,927            7.6      3.2    11.1       6.7         10.1         8.6
Gros natiloal svinp                      25,101           17.8    10.7    17.9    13.6            13.0         7.0
Prices
CDP delator (1980 - 100)                                 1.158    1.241    1.275    1.330        1.375        1.624
Echange rate (US$1 - v    )                              681.0   731.1   775.8   806.0            n.a.        S.&.
Export price indez (1986 - 100)                          103.0    99.2    96.4    98.1            97.6       142.7
Import price inde1  (1980 - 100)                         104.0    98.7    94.4    94.4            96.6       141.1
Term of trade Index (1980 - 100)                          97.9   102.2   103.1   105.1           101.0       101.2
Share of CDP market prices (X)                   Aversa annul increase (Z)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1972 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985    199O   1960-70   1970-75  1975-80   1980-85  1985-90 =
Gcose do_tic product  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    8.6               9.8       8.2       7.0      7
Agrliclture            36.7   26.9   24.5   16.5   13.6   11.3          4.3       4.9      -1.2       7.3      3.5
Industry               20.1   29.5   33.8   41.3   34.6   38.8   17.4            15.3      13.5       8.5     10.0
Service                43.2   43.6   41.7   42.3   42.7   40.8    8.1             7.7      7.6        6.7      6.5
Consuption               85.3   83.0   80.1   76.4   72.1   69.8          6.7       7.8       7.1       5.7      6.8
ros Inves  t             11.0   26.9   29.0   30.2   28.8   30.9   23.6            11.2      14.6       6.0      8.9
Imorts of CGIS            3.4   14.3   27.6   35.7   41.1   43.6   29.3            25.4     16.1        9.8      8.5
&zports of  FIPS         12.8   24.1   36.3   42.7   40.2   42.9   20.2            15.8      17.0      6.8       8.3
Gcoss nationa savlngs     8.0   19.5   20.6   21.7   27.2   29.7   17.2            14.6      9.0       12.7      9.5
An Z of GDP
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985            Labor force in 1984       Niflons      2
PULIC FINANCE (exclud-
Lng local sgernmentu)                                                       Agriculture                 3.9       26.0
=rrent revenue              18.5   17.8   17.9   19.9   19.7              Industry                    3.5       23.3
Current expnditure          14.3   13.1   15.4   15.6   16.3              Services                    7.0       46.7
Current surplu               4.2    4.7    2.5    4.3    3.4              Uneployed                   0.6        4.0
Capital expediture           3.4    6.4    6.4    5.9    2.6
Foreign flnancing             -      1.0    1.3    1.0    0.1                  Total Labor Force      15.0     100.0
1960-70       1970-75        1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OTER InDICATORS
Annua GIP growth rate (Z)                           8.7            9.0            7.9            7.0           7.5
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (S)               5.9            6.9            5.2           5.5            5.9
Aznusl energy couosption growth rate (Z)           14.2            9.6            8.7           5.7            5.4
ICo0                                                1.9            2.7            5.4           4.2            4.0
brginal svi    rate                                 0.3            0.3            0.3           0.3            0.35
import elaticity                                    2.2            1.6            2.0           1.2            1.11
/a Preliminary.
East Asia ad Pacific Regioacl Office
July 1985



A~ I
-25-                                                  PA   6
Population      39,958 (1983. thom _ds) A
CG  per capltas  US$.010 (193) 1
OCZA - IALArA    0 PFAUII. UTU34L CAPITrL AM DD2T
T06U1o  uss at currat prices)
Actual                         lstltatd   re ct
radicator                                   1970   1975   1910    1981    1932   193   1984j/    11U           1i
SATANCZ OF PAUUNMS
Mqorts of go-as *ad * rvica               1.379  5.SB4  22,577  27,269  21,356  30.383 33,627   36,900       .3800
of uhlcb: Ibrebauds  f.o.b.               U3Z  5.003  17.214  20.671  20,879  23,204 26.260   30,700       71,9D0
IOportA of  _oods sAd *SWiceS             2.182  7.997  21,347  32.416  31,504  32.531 35,516   40,500      85.600
of ublcb: Ibrcbhednia  f.o.b.           1.304  6.674  21,593  24,299  23,474  24,967  27.369   31,6D0      72,400
not trasfers                                180    227    449       501    499    592    526        600         600
Drret Acco t bLenca                       -623 -1.U87  -5,321  -4,646  -2.650  -1,606 -1,362  -1.000    -1.300
(Z of GM)                               (-7.1)  (-9.0)  (-8.7)  C-6.9)  (-3.7)  (-2.1)  (-1.7)   (-1.5)     (-1.4)
Dlrect invmaw  t                             66      53      -5      59    100   101.4    170       200        500
lILT LOan (not)                             242  1,252   2.096   4,267  2,051   1,332   3,300    3,000          9C0
Official                                  147    486    689   1,337    880    361    700           00        660
Privato                                    95    765   1,406   2,929   1,171      471  2,600    2,200         240
Otbhr capital CLuclling *rrorc
and Oe_MIou)                              372    929  3,770       367    484   -975 -1,000    -900            300
Oaags In haer,.. (gross)                    -57   -494    -863    -316    -96       77   -740  -1.800       -3.300
InTX  at iol sar      (e)                   610  1,550   6,554   6,870   6,966   6.869  7,630    9.400      21.600
--arys as eota' Imorts                      3.4    2.3    2.S   2L5         2.7    2.5    2.6        2.8        3.0
-IAI CAPITAL AND DEST
-rs Disheamt.
Officia grana                               -       -       -       -      50      -
CAmceaaal lema                            123    123    138       159    148  203.3    150        150        200
DC                                      122    TOl    11        158    14S  203.3   1W           150        20
OMC                                       -       -      17     -1        -       -      -         _         _
10                                        1      14       -       -       -      -       -        -          -
Otbr                                              I   _    _         _                              
Eonconcessinmsl lon a                     317  l SIt  3 655  4 779  3.937   3.W2    5 100  4*700           6.000
OEficil exporta credlt                   18    151    606    844        532    510    750       700      1,000
1s                                        7     187    254      306    4 38  34    4            450        600
O-bar _ltulatrarl                         5      87      90     104    116    18        200     200        20
Private - souca (resadoa)               287  1.063  2,705  3,525   2.851  2,153   3.750    3,350          *,200
lbduw and  1 _!&-rat Debt
Dabt itants  ng an dsburaed             1.797  5 540  16.274  19.964 22.006  28.170 29,310   32,800        40.400
Official -                              613  2,657  6.498   7.702  8.572   9,676  10.000   IO.         14,600
PrIvate -                                        81,15   2.833   9.776  12.263  13.433  18,294  19,3W0  2Z,000  25.300
Ibdiabursed debt                          902   1.679   7,072   5.996   5,324   4.298   5,980    5.960     *,400
Dsbt Service on IILT ls
Total service papse                       2M      667   2.762   3.597   4.199  4,657  4.840    5,200       3,700
Interest                                 lO    233   1.310   1,M    2.164   2.17   1.960    2,300       3,400
Payment as Z of szports                  19.4   11.3   12.2    13.2   14.8   15.3   14.4    13.4            10.4
abert-Tarn Dbt
Dabt outstanding and disbursd               -  2.409  10,047  13.658  14.100  11,940  11.500   11,000      13.000
Intere-t payments                           -      -      907   1.810   1.528   1.169   1.150    1.100     1,300
Interest as   of exports                    -       -    4.0      6.7    5.4    3.8    3.4        2.8        1.6
Aw.rae Interet late on Now toan  (2)
Officia                                   4.5    7.9    7.5       6.4    8.0   10.9   10.9    10.9           10.9
Private                                   7.1    9.3   14.0    13.6   13.7   11.7   11.7         11.7       11.7
Avrs  Maturity on Now l.eu  (year)
Off                                      28.0   19.3   19.6    15.3   15.5   16.4   15.0         15.0       15.0
Private                                  10.9    5.7   11.2    13.1    8.1   11.8    8.0          9.0        9.0
As Z of debt outscandisg
at ed  of most recet  r  (1962)
1 arity strwcture of debt outstading
1sturitias dua witbin 5 years                                             53.4
Ikturitins due within 10 yars                                             73.1
Interest atture of debt outanding
Interest due within firat year                                             8.7
/a Preliuimry.
lat Asla and Pacific IAginoa OffiAe
July 1985



-26-  I of 2
-26 -
EDRM
TO STUIUS 0  MMN GROUP ODXONS IN 711  RZPUIC OF 0OU. /a
A. Statement of Rank Loan and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 1986)
Loan or                                                                             Amout (S million)
Credit    Calendar                                                                (less cancellatlons)
llber        Year         Rorror                 Purpose -                Ink        TV      IDA    Undliborsed
Fifty-eight loan and eight credits fully disbursed                       3,632.46   40.00   115.58
1676         1979     Republic of Korea   Electronic. Technology            24.0                          2.97
1774         1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                      30.0                         17.67
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Rat. Urban Land & Rousing  -      75.3                          4.29
2004         1981     SKID                SHIN IV                           60.0                          0.01
2072         1982     Republic of Korea  Water Supply                       84.0                          4.30
2112         1982    YTDC                 Technology Development            49.1                          3.87
2144         1982    CIB                  CNB II                            28.4                          0.24
2215         1982     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                70.0                         43.22
2216         1982    Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land and Housing       100.0                         25.07
2228         1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County RoadJ      125.0                         31.60
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Cal and Cement Distribution       65.5                         34.62
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial Yinance       -       255.0                         60.65
2350         1983    Republlc of Korea   Second Water Supply                78.5                         42.60
2388         1984     Republlc of Xorea   Jeonju Regional Development       57.9                         51.66
2392         1984    Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                    230 .0                       153.15
2427         1984    Republic of Korea   Education Sector                  100.0                         93.46
2473         1984    XTDC                 Second Technology Development     50.0                         37.61
2491         1985    Republic of Korea   Water Supply                       95.0                         84.01
2514         1985     SW                  Urban Transportation              53.0                         49.00
2515         1985     SMIPC               Small/Medium Industry            111.0                        111.00/b
2549         1985     Republic of Korea   Yourth Agricultural Credit        25.0                         14.22
2571         1985     Republic of Korea   Second Industrial Finance        222.0                        206.20
2600         19B5     Republic of Korea   Seoul-Busan Corridor              67.0                         60.98
2615         1985     Republic of Korea   Fourth Water Supply               38.0                         38.00
2671         1986    XEPCO                Second Power                     230.0                        230.00/c
Total                                                       5,956.16   40.00   115.58    1,400.40
of which bas been repaid                                  1,099.87    5.28     8.82
Total now outstanding                                       4,856.29   34.72   106.76
Amount sold                  19.49
of wbich has been repaid   8.83                              10.66     -        -
Total now heltd by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                            4,845.63  34.72   106.76
Total undisbursed                                           1,400.40     -        -      1,400.40
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Rank/IDA-finauced
projects in execution, whicb is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executlve Directors on April 30
and October 31.
/b  Approved on April 16, 1985 but not yet signed.
7T  Approved on Narch 27, 1986 but not yet signed.



ANNEX II
-27-                                 Page2of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                      Amount ($ uillion)
Year        Obligor            Types of Business           Loan  Equity Total
1968     XLB (KDFC)             Development Financing         -      0.7    0.7
1969     Bonem  Silk Co.        Textiles                     1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper               4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.7    0.7
1974     XLB (RDFC)             Development Financing         -      0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products          16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.       Synthetic Fibers              6.9     .1    9.0
1975     Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                         5.0    0.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                         15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing       17.8      -    17.8
1976     Cold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products           10.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -      0.2    0.2
1977     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing         -      0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                 -     0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.       Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KLB (CDFC)             Development Financing         -      1.1    1.1
1979     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -      1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                -      0.6    0.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                       -     0.2    0.2
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products             -      1.5    1.5
1980/
84/85   Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -      6.9    6.9
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                      -      2.3    2.3
1980     KLB (KDFC)            Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.            Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
1982/85  KIFC                   Capital Market                -      1.1    1.1
1982    -K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development         -     0.6    0.6
1983/85  KDIC                  Money & Capital Market         -      5.9    5.9
1984     Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material       4.3    3.9    8.2
1985     Korea Fund            Money & Capital Market         -      9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                            110.7   54.8  165.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                             104.9   19.6  124.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                   5.8   35.2   41.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                    -     4.8    4.8



- 28 -
ANNEX III
KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 1 year
(b) The project was prepared by:                  KLDC
tc) Date of first presentation to Bank            June 1985
(d) Departure of the appraisal mission:           November 1985
(e) Completion of negotiations:                   April 1986
(f) Planned loan effectiveness:                   September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) KLDC would not incur any additional long-term debt without
'ank concurrence if its debt service coverage exceeds 1.3 in
any calendar year (para. 42);
(b) KLDC would review annually with the Bank the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Institutional
Development Program (para. 46 Ca));
(c) KLDC would apply the agreed criteria for subproject approval
(para. 47); and
(d) KLDC would send to the Bank annual projections for its
development programs. investments and financial statements
(para. 53).



___________________                                                           l~~~~~~~~~~~~ORD 19392R~
._.-  "                                                           r
t   _ .  DFMOCRATIC PEOPLE S REPUBLIC              |
C HI  N A                           OF KOREA                            (
_.                                             A EI.OI       ''_-- 
REPAPICORA K                                  '^
- .,, -;JuIA^     ,AA                      _,                - i 
.3e  ~     4    KYONGGI    .1 *e            KANGWON
%                D,;K ON   r   QDhon        DO
i..Inchon                -'
ns,_>w_e>w                  X~ SEOUL                r
r_b*M_~~~~~~~~~~  ri.
..d W Ib.W- 
A" ~~~~         ~, -                                        ,N
Ab.r.    p db NI.         -   -
_.r  r TM,,Z                             _^_&*M t 
.E.. b.AV -\/        
\ CHUNGCHONG,-"'s-
A  BUK DO.r'-.
c T Chongju,
CHUNGCHONG   '\              S
K r       f             KYONGSANG
NAM DO                   2
Taejon                           BUKDO
CHOLLA        x                     Tegu
BUK DO               (                   r     ---
_       --, F               7 KYONGSANG
NAM DO
tc. Kw"angju                                   1 N  'Pusan
CHOLLA
NAM  O-
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
<6  SPECIAL CITIES
0   PROVINCE CAPITAL
- - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2A  -.-_-                                   RIVERS
O      210      0      Go
MI"LES
C:heju
eCHEJU                                  20  do  so  so
DO                                   KOLgLOET S*
IJJANUARY 9-i






