                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000543




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                   ON THE

     ECONOMIC POLICY AND PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
                             (EPPFMC, IDA-41430)




                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.3 MILLION
                        (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MALI




                                August 6, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Management Unit Francophone Western 2
Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (as of July 24, 2007)

                    Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                           US$1.00 = CFAF 475

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP        Assessment and Implementation of Action Plans to Strengthen Capacity of HIPC
           countries to Track Poverty Reducing Public Expenditures
BHM        Malian Housing Bank (Banque de l'Habitat du Mali)
BIM        Mali Investment Bank (Banque Internationale pour le Mali)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEM        Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF       Franc of the African Francophone Monetary Community
CMDT       Mali Textile Development Company (Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement
           des Textiles)
CNCS       National Coordination and Monitoring Committee for the CPAR (Comité National
           de Coordination et de Suivi du CPAR)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report
DAGRIS     French Agro-industry Development Company (Développement des Agro-industries
           du Sud)
DPC        Development Policy Credit
EPPFMC     Economic Policy and Public Finance Management Credit
EU         European Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GPRSF      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HUICOMA    Mali Cotton Oil Company (Huilerie Cottonière du Mali)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDF        Institutional Development Fund
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INPS       Social Security Agency (Institut National pour la Prévoyance Sociale)
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MDRI       Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
MET        Ministry of Equipment and Transport
MIT        Ministry of Industry and Trade
MTBF       Medium Term Budget Framework
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
OHADA      Organization for Harmonization of Investment Codes in Africa (Organisation pour
           l'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires)
ON         Niger Office (Office du Niger)

PAGAMGFP       Governmental Action plan for Modernizing and Strengthening Public Finance
               Management (Plan d'Action Gouvernemental pour la Modernisation et le
               Renforcement de la Gestion des Finances Publiques)
PDI            Institutional Development Program (Programme de Développement Institutionnel)
PDSF           Financial Sector Development Project
PEFA           Public Expenditure and Fiduciary Accountability
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PFM            Public Finance Management
PNIR           National Rural Infrastructure Project
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSF           Mali Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
ROSC           Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WAEMU          West African Economic and Monetary Union




             Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
           Country Director: James P. Bond
            Sector Director: Sudhir Shetty
            Sector Manager: Antonella Bassani
          Task Team Leader: Christina A. Wood
         ICR Primary Author Sati Achath

                                   REPUBLIC OF MALI
ECONOMIC POLICY AND PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
                                             (EPPFMC)


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 29
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 31
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 33
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Economic Policy &
Country:               Mali                    Program Name:          Public Finance
                                                                      Management Credit
Program ID:            P083799                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-41430
ICR Date:              09/19/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                      MALI
Original Total
                       XDR 17.3M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 17.3M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/30/2005     Effectiveness:        04/19/2006        04/19/2006
Appraisal:             11/18/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/19/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              03/31/2007        03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:               Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:          Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)               Rating:

Potential Problem        No                    Quality at Entry     None



                                               i

Program at any time                              (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                           No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                   10                10
Central government administration                               60                60
General finance sector                                          10                10
General transportation sector                                   10                10
Irrigation and drainage                                         10                10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                        Secondary        Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                               Primary          Primary
procurement
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization         Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          James P. Bond                     Diarietou Gaye
Sector Manager:            Antonella Bassani                 Robert R. Blake
Program Team Leader:       Christina A. Wood                 Christina A. Wood
ICR Team Leader:           Christina A. Wood
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The EPPFMC aims to: (i) promote growth and poverty reduction through (a)
strengthening macroeconomic and fiscal management and (b) implementing key actions
underpinning Mali's long-term growth and competitiveness; and, (ii) improve efficiency,
accontability and transparency in public finance management through strengthening (a)




                                                ii

public expenditure management at central and decentralized levels and (b) the public
procurement system.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally          Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Basic fiscal balance (excluding grants) as a share of GDP
Value
(quantitative or -0.2 percent for 2005     >=0 percent                          0.8 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/03/2006                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator provides information on macroeconomic and fiscal management.

achievement)     The target is to be achieved every year.

Indicator 2 :    Number of sector ministries with automated financial data transfer with the
                 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Value
(quantitative or 0                         4                                    6
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/03/2006                           06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator informs on efficiency and transparency of public expenditure

achievement)     management capabilities.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                           Achieved at
                                               approval            Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Gross share of non-performing loans in the banking sector
Value
(quantitative or 19.3 percent              20 percent                           29 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/03/2006                           06/30/2007
Comments         This indicator reflects the supply/cost of credit to the private sector. The target
(incl. %         value (worse than the baseline) was set in 2006, after the NPL ratio had
achievement)     degraded to 29% due to worsened financial situation of the housing bank.
Indicator 2 :    Share of customs declarations cleared in the green risk category



                                               iii

Value
(quantitative or <2 percent               NA                  10 percent     18 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004              12/03/2006           06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator measures customs clearance efficiency & hence impact on

achievement)     private sector. The revised target is for CY2007.

Indicator 3 :    Share of customs declarations cleared in the red risk category
Value
(quantitative or >95 percent              NA                  80 percent     75 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004              12/03/2006           06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator measures customs clearance efficiency & hence impact on

achievement)     private sector. The revised target is for CY2007.

Indicator 4 :    Number of sector medium term expenditure frameworks available
Value
(quantitative or 2                       4                                   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004              12/03/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Decree on the new Procurement Code issued
Value
(quantitative or No                      NA                   Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004              12/03/2006           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     10/06/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   25.57



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              iv

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR,
not evaluative):

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)

Background. At appraisal Mali, the largest country in West Africa, was characterized as
having a stable and inclusive political environment, having successfully concluded four
successive Presidential elections since 1990 and two sub-national elections since 1997. It
has been a steady reformer over the previous twenty years, albeit a plodding one at times.
Specifically, in the early 1980s, Mali embarked on a market-oriented reform program to
break away from a past of socialist-oriented policies adopted following independence in
1960. Initial reforms focused on reducing the state's monopoly of economic activities.
From 1987 the reforms were intensified, focusing on the liberalization of external and
internal commerce, notably the liberalization of prices and marketing of cereal crops. In
the period following the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, all product prices were
liberalized and emphasis was placed on achieving macroeconomic stability as well as
progressively deepening the reforms in key sectors of the economy, including in the
social sectors. Mali's broad market-oriented reforms and broad-based political reforms
resulted in a turnaround from negative average real GDP growth per year (-1.2 percent
during 1980-1986) to a sustained 5.7 percent during 1994-2004. Gross national income
per capita increased from US$240 in 1994 to US$370 in 2004, a 4.0 percent average
annual increase. This growth performance, which was better than the WAEMU country
average during that period, stemmed from a rapid increase in mining production and
exports since the mid 1990s, output and productivity increases in rice for domestic
consumption, output increases in cotton for export, and increased growth of transport,
trade and other services.

Also, macroeconomic stability was broadly achieved. Government overall deficit
declined (from over 9 percent prior to 1996 to under 8 percent on average subsequently),
and domestic financing declined. From a moderate inflation level of 10 percent on
average during the early-to-mid 1980s, Mali experienced low inflation of 3 percent on
average during 1996-2004, facilitated by prudent national fiscal policy, and prudent
monetary policy of the Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union to which Mali
has belonged since 1984.

Despite the achievements over the previous two decades, Mali faced significant economic
and social challenges. Over 60 percent of Mali's population lived below the poverty line
in 2001, and Mali's social indicators remained among the lowest in the world--it was
ranked 174 out of 177 countries in Human Development Index reported in the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) 2005 Human Development Report. With a
population of about 12 million, population density was very low (10 persons per square




                                              1

kilometer1) resulting in high cost of public service delivery, difficulty in accessing some
segments of the rural population as well as nomadic communities, and high transportation
costs for agricultural inputs and other goods.

Mali's economy remained fragile in view of its vulnerability to climatic conditions and
commodity price fluctuations (primarily of cotton, oil and gold). The economy was
dependent on agriculture and gold production, and exports were highly concentrated with
gold and cotton together comprising over 90% of export earnings. As a land-locked
country, Mali faced challenges due to weak development of infrastructure and
transportation services, and to economic and political conditions in neighboring
countries. Specifically, the business environment--not only road transportation but also
investment inflow prospects--continued to suffer from the protracted stalemate in the
resolution of the crisis in Côte d'Ivoire. As with other low income countries,
administrative capacity was also weak. A significant social, structural and
macroeconomic reform agenda remained for Mali to consolidate the gains of the past to
sustain broad-based growth, further entrench market-oriented forces in the country, and
advance the poverty reduction program.

Growth, Prices and External Developments. Mali's economic performance is subject to
several exogenous shocks, and 2004 was a particularly challenging year in that respect. In
that year, Mali faced several such shocks, notably a drought and a locust invasion,
commodity price shocks, the appreciation of its currency against the dollar and persistent
regional instability. Inadequate rainfall and locust infestation during the 2004-05 crop
year resulted in declines in cereal and cotton production by 13 percent and 3 percent
respectively, contributing to a decline in real GDP growth to 2.2 percent in 2004,
following 7.2 percent growth in 2003. While the terms of trade overall improved
marginally during 2004 by 1.5 percent, adverse shifts in key international prices were
particularly burdensome to Mali's macroeconomic management--notably, a 30 percent
fall in international cotton prices during 2004 contributed to severely worsening the
cotton sector's financial position, thereby having implications for the state budget to
cover the resulting sector deficit; while a 31 percent rise in oil prices induced the
government to lower petroleum taxes to ease the price impact at the pump, and led to
declining fiscal revenues. Weakening of the US Dollar relative to the Euro in 2004, to
which the local currency is pegged, aggravated the adverse impact of the cotton price
decline since the latter is denominated in US Dollars. Lastly, persistent instability in
neighboring Cote d'Ivoire kept transport prices high as more distant ports continued to be
used, and contributed to Mali's lackluster investment prospects. On the positive side,
favorable rainfall conditions during 2003 yielded a bumper agriculture production,
thereby resulting in negative inflation during 2004.

The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) worsened in 2004 to 10.3
percent of GDP due largely to lower gold exports. Gold exports declined (by 2.7



1The next largest WAEMU country by land area, Nigeria, covers 0.9 million square km. With a population
of 129 million people, its population density is 142 persons per km2.




                                                      2

percentage points relative to the 2003 share of GDP) combining with a decline in other
exports (by 0.5 percentage points) to outweigh the increase in cotton exports (1.1
percentage points). A lower decline in the import share of GDP (by 0.3 percentage
points) relative to the decline in the export share of GDP (of 1.4 percentage points),
combined with a slight worsening of the service account balance as a share of GDP (by
0.1 percentage point), translated into a worsening of the current account balance by 1.6
percentage points (excluding official transfers) relative to 2003.

In 2005, Mali's real GDP growth rebounded to 6.1 percent, although the economy
continued to bear the macroeconomic repercussions of the previous year's exogenous
shocks in addition to continued terms of trade declines. The cotton sector deficit from
2004 had constrained the smooth management of the cotton season that year and, due to
low food stocks stemming from the 2004 drought, the government had to devote
resources to food security objectives through increased food imports and food
distribution to affected populations.2 Thus, other macroeconomic indicators (inflation,
external balance and terms of trade, see Table 1) deteriorated.

Following adverse shocks during 2004 and economic rebound in 2005, Mali had a good
economic performance in 2006. Real GDP grew an estimated 4.6 percent due to
favorable rainfall levels which enabled a good cereal harvest, higher gold production and
increased service sector growth. Other macroeconomic indicators (inflation, external
balance and terms of trade) saw improvements. Adequate cereal supplies enabled
inflation to fall to 1.5 percent. Mali's external position also strengthened, largely because
of higher gold exports and improved terms of trade (with rising gold prices more than
offsetting increased fuel prices). As a result, the trade balance improved by 2.5 percent of
GDP in 2006. The current account, however, improved more modestly, as gold profits
were repatriated. Gross international reserves remained comfortable, covering six months
of imports. After MDRI debt relief, Mali's external debt fell from 65 percent of GDP in
2005 to 27 percent in 2006.

Fiscal performance. While the exogenous shocks in 2004 translated into some revenue
shortfalls (such as petroleum tax), fiscal revenues overall were higher than the PRGF
program targets and 2003 levels due largely to higher-than-expected value added tax
receipts. Total government revenue increased in terms of GDP, to 17.4 percent in 2004
from 16.4 percent in 2003; and tax revenue increased to 15.1 percent in 2004 from 13.6
percent in 2003. Delays in executing externally financed capital spending in addition to
lower-than-anticipated government transfers due to contingency allocations that didn't
materialize, contributed to spending below budget. In terms of GDP, the Government's
prudent expenditure management translated into slightly better budget execution than
PRGF program targets, in addition to a lower overall fiscal deficit than programmed--the
fiscal deficit on a payment order basis excluding grants was 6.6 percent, and the fiscal



2The World Food Program estimated that up to 20 percent of Mali's population (about 2.2 million people)
in the north of the country was at risk of famine.




                                                   3

 deficit on a cash basis including grants was 2.3 percent, both lower than the respective
 program target by 1 percentage point of GDP.

       Table 1: Mali: Selected Economic Indicators and Medium-Term Economic Outlook, 2004-10


                                                 1999-03       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008       2009     2010
                                                                         Est.                          Projections

                                                                 (Annual percentage changes, unless otherwise indicated)

National income and prices
  Real GDP                                               4.7       2.2       6.1        4.6        5.7        5.8        5.1    5.4
  Consumer price index (annual average)                  1.4      -3.1       6.4        1.5        2.0        1.9        2.5     2.5

  Terms of trade                                        -1.3       1.5     -11.7      14.0         9.8       -3.3        2.7     4.5

                                                                     (In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
Investment and saving
  Gross domestic investment                            20.8       21.7      22.3      22.4       22.6.       22.9       23.1   22.7
     Government                                          7.3       7.4       7.6        8.4        8.4        8.4        8.3     8.3
     Non-government                                    13.8       14.3      14.7      14.0        14.2       14.5       14.7   14.4
  Gross national saving                                13.3       13.4      13.5      15.2        16.7       16.3       17.0   17.7
  Gross domestic saving                                13.5       13.5      13.6      16.4        18.0       18.6       19.3   19.9
     Government                                          0.4       1.1       0.5        0.4        1.0        1.0        1.1     1.1
     Non-government                                    13.1       12.4      13.2      16.0        17.0       17.7       18.2   18.8

Central government finance
  Total revenue and grants                             19.3       21.4      22.0       56.9       22.4       21.5       21.1   20.7
  Total expenditure and net lending                    22.1       24.0      25.2      25.6        26.0       25.3       24.9   24.6
     Current expenditure                               11.9       13.4      13.3      13.1        13.5       13.0       12.8   12.6
     Capital expenditure                                 9.1       9.3       9.5       11.4       12.6       11.2       11.1   11.0
  Overall balance (payment order basis,                 -7.1      -6.6      -7.3       -8.5       -8.9       -7.8       -7.7    -7.6
  excluding grants)

External sector
  Current external balance, including official          -7.5      -8.3      -8.8       -7.2       -6.3       -6.4       -5.9    -5.1
  transfers
  Current external balance, excluding official          -9.4     -10.3     -10.9       -8.7       -7.9       -7.3       -6.9    -5.8
  transfers
  Debt-service to export ratio after debt relief         8.5       6.4       5.8        4.4        3.6        3.5        3.6     3.8
Gross international reserves
  (in millions of US$)                                  455        861       942     1,182      1,267       1,327     1,388   1,446
  (in months of next year's imports)                     4.9       6.5       6.0        6.1        6.2        6.2        6.4     6.6
External public debt                                   86.2       63.1      65.4       27.3       28.2       30.7       32.2   33.1
Sources: Malian authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
Note: 2006-10 data is after adjustment for MDRI (IMF, IDA, and AfDB).



 In 2005 the persistent oil price shock and food insecurity situation resulted in revenue
 shortfalls early in the year relative to program targets. The authorities lowered the tax on
 petroleum product imports to avoid sharp increases in petrol prices at the pump during
 the first half of the year. To compensate for rising food prices, they introduced temporary
 exemptions on import duties for food imports, and decided to postpone implementation
 of some planned tax measures (e.g., the elimination of VAT exemptions for the
 agricultural bank and agricultural inputs). However, measures introduced during the year
 to strengthen tax and customs collections (improved onsite accounting checks, large
 taxpayer unit computerization, recovery of WAEMU duty losses compensation, and
 strengthening of import verification to combat customs fraud) enabled the authorities to
 make up the shock-related revenue shortfalls. Total revenues achieved during 2005 (17.9
 percent of GDP) exceeded the program target (17.6 percent) and represented a slight
 increase over 2004 (17.4 percent).



                                                                   4

The revenue achievements, combined with slightly lower spending, enabled execution of
the 2005 budget to remain on track. Expenditure targets were lower than program targets,
reflecting both lower current and capital expenditures. Total expenditure and net lending
in 2005 was 25.8 percent of GDP (versus the target 26.3 percent), with current
expenditures at 13.6 percent of GDP (versus the target 13.8). The overall fiscal deficit
(payment order basis including grants) was 7.3 percent of GDP versus the 8.7 percent
target.

Bolstered by reinforced revenue collection, revenue windfallsand precautionary spending
restraint, the authorities met all the IMF-supported PRGF fiscal targets for 2006. The
overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) was 8.5 percent of GDP. Buoyant customs duty
revenues (including unexpected compensation from WAEMU for lost customs revenues
from previous years) and higher payments from the mining sector resulted in higher
overall fiscal revenues than targeted. Overall current expenditures were kept within the
program levels. The authorities also appear to have met all quantitative performance
criteria and targets for the end of March 2007, except for a ¾ percent of GDP revenue
shortfall.

Rationale for Bank assistance. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, July
2003) was designed to support the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Framework (PRSF) in complement to interventions of other donors. The CAS selectively
focused on the following three key themes:

    · Promoting growth by combining policy support through structural adjustment,
        and subsequently development policy, operations, with an approach of increasing
        agricultural productivity and diversification through rural sector operations and
        non-rural growth driven by the private sector. This corresponded to the 1st and 4th
        PRSF pillars.

    · Developing human resources by working with donors to strengthen
        programmatic approaches in the health and education sectors. This corresponded
        with the 2nd PRSF pillar.

    · Improving public finance management and governance by focusing on public
        sector financial accountability mechanisms covering public expenditure,
        procurement, and financial management systems. This corresponded with the 1st
        PRSF pillar.

The Economic Policy and Public Finance Management Credit (EPPFMC)3 was part of
the CAS base case lending scenario of budget support operations. The thematic coverage



3The EPPFMC is reflected in the CAS under the SAC IV, which was originally a $55 million operation
covering a two-year policy horizon that was split into two annual operations. The first of these annual
operations was the $25 million SAC IV, and the second annual operation was the EPPFMC (US$25
million) formulated as a development policy credit in line with the new Bank policy on policy-based
lending. The EPPFMC was originally called First Development Policy Credit (DPC I). The name was
changed to EPPFMC during negotiations.


                                                  5

of the EPPFMC focused on policy and institutional issues in macro, public finance and
selected sector areas. It complemented self-standing sector investment operations
covering,    respectively,    health,    education,    rural  infrastructure,    agricultural
competitiveness, support to growth, and transport corridors.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The EPPFMC aimed to: (i) promote growth and poverty reduction through (a)
strengthening macroeconomic and fiscal management and (b) implementing key actions
underpinning Mali's long-term growth and competitiveness; and, (ii) improve efficiency,
accountability and transparency in public finance management through strengthening (a)
public expenditure management at central and decentralized levels and (b) the public
procurement system.

Key Indicators as approved. The program document outlines medium-term results and
indicators, given that the operation covered a one year time slice of a medium term
reform program. As is noted in section 2.3 (a), the results framework was insufficiently
developed in that no baseline values were included and the year the target values were to
be achieved was not explicitly specified, although for some indicators the target year
could be inferred. Two additional indicators that measure progress of the program,
namely `basic fiscal balance (excluding grants) as a share of GDP' and `Gross share of
non-performing loans in the banking sector', were included in the first Implementation
Status Report (ISR), drawn from the results framework of the successor PRSC-1
operation.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The EPPFMC focused on policy and institutional issues in macro, public finance and
selected sector areas. Specifically, it comprised the following three components:

    · strengthening macroeconomic framework and budgetary policy;
    · support to growth, covering policy measures for strengthening the financial sector,
       private sector, road maintenance and transit facilitation, and the Office du Niger
       irrigation zone; and
    · strengthening public expenditure management, transparency and controls.

A summary of the activities under each of these components is detailed below.




                                              6

Component 1. Strengthening the Macroeconomic Framework and Budgetary Policy

Under this component, the EPPFMC focused on supporting: (i) prudent budget policy,
including measures to minimize budget transfers to a weakly performing cotton sector;
and (ii) deepening the results-based budgeting process through strengthening the links
between various budget preparation instruments (MTBF, sector MTEFs, program
budgets), sector strategies and the PRSF preparation. At the same time, the sector MTEFs
were to be improved, and foundation laid for strengthening the PRSF's growth strategy.

As regards policy for the cotton sector, the operation emphasized continued
implementation of the producer price mechanism and preparations for the eventual
privatization of the cotton company. Continued implementation of the 2005 cotton
producer pricing mechanism has enhanced stability of the sector from the farmers'
perspective, enabling sector operations to proceed in a smooth manner. Stability has also
been strengthened with the continued implementation of the CMDT privatization
strategy, which is on track to being concluded during 2008 to enable entry of dynamic
private sector operators.

Component 2. Support to Growth

The EPPFMC continues the process initiated under the SAC IV of expanding the growth
component into new sectors as updated analysis became available. In addition to financial
sector and irrigation reforms covered in the SAC IV, the EPPFMC includes policy
measures for transportation and private sector development, underpinned by analysis
from the Integrated Trade Diagnostic Study (FY04), the transport sector background
study for the Country Economic Memorandum on growth (FY07), the Investment
Climate Assessment (FY05) and the supply chain analysis undertaken during preparation
of the growth support project (FY05). Inclusion of these sectors was also underpinned by
preliminary results of the growth CEM, which highlighted private sector, transport
activities, irrigation reforms and financial sector development as the key drivers of
growth in Mali over the past decade. Selection of these sectors under the EPPFMC rests
on the fact that further reforms were needed to strengthen their contribution to Mali's
medium term growth.

In the Financial Sector, the EPPFMC supported policies to strengthen financial sector
institutions (bank and non-bank). This included: (i) preparatory activities toward clearing
bank portfolios of non-performing loans, restoring financial viability of the Mali Housing
Bank, and returning the Mali International Bank to private management; (ii)
strengthening financial viability of the public and private sector pension systems; and (iii)
strengthening supervision of microfinance institutions.

In the Road Transport and Transit Facilitation Sector, the EPPFMC focused on
expanding the use of the improved automated customs information management system
(SYDONIA++) and on strengthening the financial underpinnings of the institutional
framework for road maintenance by the private sector. This primarily comprised
operationalizing SYDONIA++ at the Bamako rail station, strengthening cash-flow
management at the agency managing road maintenance contracts (the Road Authority),


                                              7

and ensuring that resources allocated for road maintenance were transferred to the Road
Authority in a timely manner.

Under the Private Sector Development component, the operation focused on streamlining
of administrative requirements for starting a business (from 5 processes to 1), and on
disseminating a clarification of the regulations pertaining to handicraft products export to
enable non-imposition of the de-facto "export tax" for those products.

For Office du Niger Irrigation Reforms, the operation focused on: (i) strengthening the
performance of the irrigation zone management as specified in the performance contract
signed by the Government, the Office du Niger, and the producers; and (ii) strengthening
the legal and financial framework for introducing small- to medium-scale private
investment in the irrigation zone, commencing with the Koumouna pilot area (1115 ha).

Component 3. Strengthening Public Finance Management, Transparency and Controls

This component of the EPPFMC focused on supporting the continued implementation of
the Government's medium-term PFM action plan (the Institutional Development
Program, PDI, and the Governmental Action Plan for Modernization and the
Strengthening of Public Finance Management, PAGAMGFP) through: (i) the
strengthening of the institutional framework for implementing the PAGAMGFP; (ii) the
strengthening of budget control functions of the various administrative and jurisdictional
audit departments; (iii) actions to improve budget transparency and accountability; and
(iv) beginning to lay the foundations for strengthening the public procurement system
through adoption of the revised CPAR and establishment of a steering committee for the
procurement reform process.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

There was no change in the operation's design, scope and scale, implementing
arrangements, or schedule during implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The EPPFMC was a one tranche operation of $25 million, approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on January 19, 2006 and disbursed on April 19, 2006 upon
effectiveness. The operation was approved on the basis of completion of the following
select list of prior actions:




                                             8

   List of prior actions
   Component 1: Strengthening Macroeconomic Framework and Budgetary Policy
   A. Macroeconomic Framework and Budget Policy
      · Maintain a prudent budget policy consistent with the agreed macroeconomic framework.
      · Adopt an overall logical framework for operationalizing and appropriating the medium term budget
        framework (MTBF) and medium term sector expenditure framework (MTEF), synchronized with the
        processing timelines for the macroeconomic framework, budget preparation cycle, and preparation of the
        2007-2011 PRSF.

   B. Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
      · Adopt terms of reference for preparing the 2007-2011 PRSF, that integrates the work required to
        coordinate the formulation and implementation of an economic growth support strategy.

   C. Budgetary Risk of the Cotton Sector
      · Continue implementation of the cotton producer price setting mechanism with a view to limiting the state
        budgetary risk of the national cotton ginning company CMDT.
   Component 2: Support to Growth
   A. Financial Sector
      · Re-constitute the Board of Directors of the Malian Housing Bank (Banque de l'Habitat Malian ­ BHM)
        with the addition of three private sector specialists independent of the shareholders; and canvass existing
        and potential new investors to invite them to participate in the recapitalization of BHM.
   Component 3: Public Finance Management, Transparency and Controls
   A. Budget Reform Program
      · Establish the institutional framework for implementing the Government's action plan for modernization
        and improvement of public finance management; define the mechanisms for its implementation,
        monitoring and evaluation; and inscribe resources in the draft 2006 budget for the 2006 time slice of the
        action plan.




2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The implementation of the EPPFMC was positively affected by various factors such as
favorable economic trends, adequate government commitment, sound background
analysis, incorporation of lessons learned from previous operations in Mali, appropriate
design of the operation, and appropriate mitigation measures for the risks identified.
These factors are discussed further below.

(i) Mali's economic trends. While 2004 and early 2005 were a difficult period due to the
effects of drought and locust invasion and a terms of trade shock and, the outlook began
to improve during the second half of 2005. As a result, Mali's real GDP grew by about 6
percent in 2005--reflecting a favorable cereals harvest--and grew 4.6 percent in 2006.

(ii)  Adequacy        of    government's          commitment,          stakeholder          involvement,     and/or
participatory      processes. The Government commitment was satisfactory. The
restructuring of banks and key public enterprises continued after the disbursement of the
EPPFMC, despite some delays. In the cotton sector, the new timetable for privatization of
CMDT was agreed among the shareholders, and preparations are underway to split the
CMDT into four regional cotton companies. The new, improved cotton pricing formula
approved under the Mali SAC IV program continued to be applied satisfactorily: in April
2006 the cotton price setting committee (with the concurrence of sector stakeholders) set
the 2006-07 initial purchase price at CFAF 165/kg, a level consistent with a small,
manageable loss of the CMDT (about 0.1 percent of GDP) based on contemporaneous


                                                          9

projections of cotton prices and exchange rates. Prudent implementation of the producer
price mechanism continued in 2007, with the 2007-08 producer price set at the lowest
level of the mechanism's price range, CFAF 160/kg.

(iii) Soundness of the background analysis underpinning the operation. The operation
benefited from a number of analytical and fiduciary studies undertaken by the Bank and
in some cases by the government and other partners. First and foremost, a considerable
analytical effort had been conducted in assessing the effectiveness of public spending in
Mali, including a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, FY04), an
updated Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR, FY06), the IMF Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Assessment and Implementation of Action Plan (AAP)
report (FY04), an IMF Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC), a
European Union (EU) audit of reform implementation to improve public finance
management procedures, and a study on implementing the decentralization policy based
on two pilot regions.

These studies helped identify the main strengths and shortcomings in Mali's fiduciary
system, and helped the authorities prepare two key action plans for reforms that integrate
the various studies--one on public finance management (the Government Action Plan for
Modernizing and Strengthening of Public Finance Management), and the other on
decentralization (Institutional Development Program to support implementation of the
decentralization policy). These action plans, supported by several donors, have been key
instruments toward increased donor harmonization in Mali. Technical assistance to Mali
for the development of medium term frameworks for health, education, and transport, as
well as informal reviews of Mali's government-wide medium term budget framework,
underpinned the MTEF measures in the operation.

The EPPFMC also drew from other diagnostic reports. For example, the underpinnings to
the growth component stemmed from a series of studies to identify sources of growth and
refine the growth strategy. The first emanated from an Institutional Development Fund
(IDF) grant in 1997 to assist Mali in diagnostic work toward formulating a long term
growth strategy, and that resulted in a government-issued 2010 Growth and Development
Proposal, which underpinned the 1998 CAS and subsequent lending support to Mali. The
proposal reoriented government activity and Bank support toward structural reforms (e.g.,
judicial/regulatory environment for business), infrastructure and infrastructure services
(transportation, telecommunications, energy, irrigation), priority producing sectors
(agriculture and rural development, industry, mining, tourism), human resource
development needs (education, health), and other reforms underpinning private-sector
growth (financial sector development).

Subsequent studies included a sector policy note that highlighted the critical importance
of irrigation in overcoming vulnerability to climatic shocks and enhancing food security
in Mali and documented the factors underlying the successful Bank-supported irrigation
reform. Also, a supply chain analysis of the textile/garments, leatherwork and handicraft
sectors was conducted under the growth support project, and an Investment Climate
Assessment (FY05) highlighted concrete micro-level constraints to Mali's growth,
including regulatory and non-price barriers that increase the time and monetary costs of


                                            10

doing business. An integrated trade diagnostic study completed in 2004 also highlighted
micro-level constraints in addition to cross cutting constraints stemming from the
transport, trade facilitation and finance sectors. These studies, which had underpinned
discussions at the President's Investor Council consultations (conducted bi-annually since
September 2004), had laid the foundations for identifying critical reforms needed and
strengthened government commitment to improve the investment climate and remove
other unnecessary impediments to private sector growth.

Background studies for the CEM, which built on the above findings with the purpose of
aiding Mali articulate an integrated growth strategy combining micro- and macro-level
dimensions in a consistent framework, also underpinned aspects of the EPPFMC program
(notably the growth performance study and the transport and trade facilitation study).

(iv) Lessons learned from previous operations. The EPPFMC incorporated the following
lessons learned from the SAC III and SAC IV:

    · Development policy operations covering a focused structural reform agenda are
       more likely to succeed than ambitious or complex operations in countries with
       weak institutional and administrative capacity.
    · Restructuring and/or privatization of state-owned enterprises (e.g., cotton) should
       be planned over the medium term rather than short-term periods; the focus should
       be on best practice in privatization; and single adjustment operations may not be
       the best way of achieving specific privatization objectives.
    · Effective coordination with the IMF and other donors is critical.
    · Ensuring that key implementing institutions have adequate resources (e.g.,
       provision of TA4) is important for implementation.
    · There are merits in including in policy-based lending operations, policies and
       institutional reform measures complementary to and supportive of ongoing sector
       operations.
    · It is important that the program supported by an operation is underpinned by
       strong analytical work, as was the case for this operation. In the absence of
       sufficient formal analysis, it is important that the Bank and country authorities
       have a common understanding of, and sufficiently developed dialogue on, the
       needed reforms.

(v) Assessment of the operation's design: The EPPFMC was the first development policy
operation to Mali, following a number of structural adjustment operations. The credit was
designed as a one year program within a medium term reform agenda. The credit's policy
matrix adequately reflected the implementation capacity of the Government, which was
able to complete the actions in the agreed timeframe. Though having broad coverage, the
operation's design was realistic and not complex. The operation was fairly well focused




4This was assured particularly for the financial sector component through the ongoing Financial Sector
Development TA Project.




                                                   11

on dealing with key issues facing the country, with important core areas linked to
medium term growth and public finance management reforms. The results framework
incorporated quantitative and qualitative indicators, reflecting expected achievements
over a medium-term horizon. Yet absence of clear baseline values or target years did not
readily permit measurement of achievements after the one year horizon of the operation.
In hindsight, this was a deficiency of the operation's design, which has been rectified
with the fully developed results framework for Mali's reform agenda in the course of the
follow-on PRSC-1 preparation.

It is worth noting that the operation was initiated under strained relations of the Bank
with the Government and the donors, in the wake of diverging views on the cotton
dialogue during preparation of the SAC IV which led to a three month delay in
submitting the SAC IV for Board approval (2005) and slippage of the SAC IV
disbursement from CY2004 into CY2005 when it was urgently needed to close the 2004
financing gap. In view of the continued high fiscal risk posed by the cotton sector, the
EPPFMC was designed as a stand alone operation at a low level of financing, serving as a
transition from the SACs to a programmatic series of operations such as a PRSC.
Movement to PRSC series, and at higher financing level than previous policy-based
operations, was to occur upon clear progress toward improved cotton sector financial
management and greater clarity of the medium term cotton sector agenda. The
development policy framework approach under which the operation was prepared, served
well in mending the Bank's relationship with the Government and donors, thereby
establishing a firm foundation for subsequent initiation of PRSC programmatic lending in
CY2006 and progressively harmonized donor support to Mali.

(vi) Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures.

The operation faced the following external, institutional and political risks:

External risks stemmed mainly from the well-known vulnerability of the Malian
economy to vagaries of weather and commodity price fluctuations (cotton, oil and gold)
as well as regional crises (e.g., Cote d'Ivoire, cricket infestation).

Mitigating measure: The operation was broadly consistent with policies and initiatives to
reduce the Malian economy's structural vulnerabilities over the medium term by the
inclusion of key measures for financial and cotton sector development, as well as for the
formulation and implementation of an economic growth support strategy. Additionally,
the country dialogue allowed for some budget flexibility to address crisis-related
expenses within the context of a prudently managed budget supporting priority growth
and poverty reduction programs. Increasing progress toward predictable and timely donor
support and coordination promoted under the operation were also key factors. While
measures for mitigating external risks were relevant, the time frame of the operation was
too short for them to be fully effective.

Institutional risk comprised the threat of weak capacity and governance to program
implementation and outcomes.



                                              12

Mitigating measure: This risk of slower-than-desired program implementation stemming
from capacity constraints were reduced through continued technical support by the Bank
and other donors to strengthen capacity, particularly for the coordination of the financial
sector and growth/macroeconomic programs. The design also included strengthening
growth-critical areas such as prudent fiscal policy and financial sector development.
Furthermore, by building on the good record of policy reform in public expenditure
management, the credit contributed to the institutional strengthening of various agencies
involved in public expenditure management, including at sub-national levels.

Political risk remained that the government's commitment to the continued
implementation of reforms, including the privatization and liberalization program
(banking, cotton, telecommunication sectors) could wane. Potential re-opening of
discussion on agreed measures could have caused a loss of momentum in reform
implementation. There was also a critical political risk that insufficient recovery of world
cotton prices would warrant a sharp downward adjustment in local producer prices in line
with the price setting protocol, an adjustment that could prove politically extremely
difficult.

Mitigating measure: These risks were constantly monitored by the country team in order
to detect problem areas early on and adjust the Bank response as needed. While the risk
linked to the international price movements was not possible to control, the operation
drew from estimates of the potential poverty and financial impact of various cotton prices
in order to inform the policy choices and trade offs between the need for local prices to
reflect world market conditions and the desirability of cushioning the temporary impact
on the poor. Close monitoring of developments and continuous policy dialogue is a
necessary mitigating element, and were undertaken for this operation. The government
stayed the course on the planned reforms and mid-year review of the cotton market price
parameters did not warrant consideration of a reduction in the producer price.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

(a) M&E design. The monitoring framework was insufficiently developed for the
EPPFMC. The monitoring framework comprised both quantitative and qualitative
"indicators", in the context of a medium term policy framework. Yet while target values
were specified for some indicators, targets were not specified explicitly for other
indicators. Baseline values were not explicitly specified for any of the indicators, even
though they could be inferred in some cases.

The MEF was the main interlocutor for the EPPFMC, and was responsible for overall
coordination of supervision and monitoring of program implementation through its
Macroeconomic Monitoring Unit (MMU), which is led by the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The MMU drew upon MEF thematic
Technical Advisors who liaised with the various individuals designated as focal points in
the ministries/departments/agencies involved in the EPPFMC program. These include
concerned sector Ministries, MEF Departments, the Financial Sector Development
Project Unit (PDSF), the Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton (MRSC), the Road
Authority, the National Highway Department, the Public Sector Retirement Fund (CRM),


                                           13

the Private Sector Insurance Agency (INPS), the Office du Niger, the central bank, public
companies (such as the CMDT, insurance companies, etc.), and various private sector
banks.

While it was not fully developed at the time of the EPPFMC, the sustainability of M&E
institutional arrangements is nonetheless ensured because of a stronger M&E system
established under the follow-on PRSC series (see section 2.4). Indeed, under the first
PRSC in that series, a monitoring framework comprising indicators with baseline and
target values was developed in agreement with the Government, consistent with the M&E
system for Mali's PRS.

(b) M&E implementation. The M&E framework was strengthened during the first ISR
with the inclusion of two indicators along with baseline and target values. These
indicators were selected from the M&E framework of the successor operation, the Mali
PRSC-1, whose PDO matches that of the EPPFMC. The Bank drew upon indicators and
data already available with the Government or other public entities (such as the central
bank) that were deemed reliable.

(c) M&E utilization. The M&E framework for the program as developed under the Mali
PRSC-1, is the same one being used for the Mali PRSC-2. The indicators for the sector
components were explicitly intended to be a subset of indicators being used in the
respective sector programs, so as to avoid proliferation of differing sets of indicators and
foster sustainability of the M&E framework. Use of the results to inform decision-making
and resource allocation cannot be determined at this time due to the short horizon of the
operation.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The Bank has followed up the EPPFMC by supporting the Government's reform program
and poverty reducing efforts under a three-year PRSC series. The first operation of the
series, the PRSC-1, which was initiated in July 2006 and approved by the Board in March
2007, comprised the following three key issue areas: (i) strengthening of the links
between the growth and poverty reduction strategy framework (GPRSF) and the
macroeconomic and budget frameworks, and strengthening public finance management
(including procurement); (ii) growth-enhancing measures in the financial sector, private
sector, electricity, transport and transit facilitation, cotton, and the Office du Niger
irrigation zone; and (iii) improving access to basic social services, notably health and
social development and rural water supply and sanitation.

The PRSC-2 currently under preparation, and the PRSC-3 that would follow it, would
deepen the growth component. It is envisioned that the three PRSC operations would
contribute to sustaining the benefits achieved under EPPFMC. Further, they are expected
to strengthen the M&E of the program.




                                            14

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives of the EPPFMC are still important to the country's economic
development. The operation was timely and appropriate to the needs of Mali. Mali
remains firmly in the CAS base-case scenario with main instruments of Bank support
combining development policy, community support and traditional investment projects.
These include: (i) support via development policy credits, including a PRSC in the last
CAS year; (ii) community-driven development operations supporting productive sectors
and the fight against HIV/AIDS; and (iii) traditional investment operations targeting
specific needs in the social sectors, and in transport and private sector development to
enhance the competitiveness of Mali's economy. As potentially envisioned in the CAS,
the health sector program is now incorporated in the PRSC.

        Rating: Highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

Moderately satisfactory. The operation was broadly successful in achieving its
objectives, and the Government's actions under the operation pave the way toward
achieving most of the desired outcomes. However, one of the two performance indicators
that were retrofitted during the first ISR has not been achieved (share of non-performing
loans in the banking sector), and the achievements in the cotton sector and banking
privatization are mixed.

The operation sought to achieve the first objective of promoting growth and poverty
reduction through macroeconomic and fiscal management actions as well as through
actions in key sectors (financial, cotton, private sector development, road transportation
and trade facilitation, and Office du Niger irrigation reforms). The macroeconomic and
fiscal management program under the EPPFMC focused on establishing an adequate
macroeconomic framework and budget policy, strengthening links between budget policy
and the PRSF, and minimizing the fiscal risk of cotton sector deficits.

The Government conducted annual program reviews prior to initiating preparation of the
annual budget and prepared MTEFs at government-wide and sectoral levels for two
sectors, and subsequently extended the process to five additional sectors in 2006. A
logical framework was established in 2005 and used to formulate the expenditure
program under the GPRSF (2007-2011), which was finalized in December 2006. In the
preparation of the Budget Law since 2005, the Government ensured that it was consistent
with the macroeconomic framework and that adequate resources were allocated to
accelerate implementation of the PRSF. These efforts strengthened the links between the
budget and poverty reduction policies, and budget formulation.




                                                15

The Government also established a mechanism to minimize the risks of cotton sector
deficits and their potential impact on the budget (a tri-partite protocol was signed with
farmer organizations and the CMDT to regulate the setting of the cotton producer price in
line with international market developments). The price mechanism has been
implemented successfully for two crop seasons (2005-06 and 2006-07), resulting in
additional price payments (ristourne) to the producers, who allocated a portion of the
ristourne to their new price stabilization fund established in 20065. For the 2007-08 crop
season, the producer price has been set at the lowest level allowed by the price setting
mechanism, sending a positive signal regarding continued prudent management of
producer prices in line with market conditions faced by the cotton sector.

The price mechanism, however, does not appear to have been successful in inducing
CMDT to become more efficient.6 The CMDT is facing operational difficulties and
continues to be in financial crisis. On the operational side, both the CMDT privatization
operational plan (Schema operational de privatization de la CMDT) and the 2005-06 crop
season outcome report (Rapport bilan de la campagne 2005-2006) indicate that CMDT's
ginning factories are deteriorating due to lack of adequate regular maintenance. With
regards to its finances, the reports indicate that CMDT posted a large deficit of CFAF 43
billion (US$ 90 million) in 2005, the estimated deficit for the 2005-06 crop season was
CFAF 11 billion, and the CMDT's treasury gap had risen to CFAF 86 billion.
Furthermore, it is expected that the company would once again be technically bankrupt in
2006 (although financial data will only become available to confirm this in late 2007)
requiring, under the OHADA regulation, a decision by its shareholders to either
recapitalize or liquidate the company.

Adding to CMDT's financial stress is the likely imminent closure of HUICOMA (the
cottonseed oil company), the privatized cottonseed oil company which obtains cottonseed
from CMDT. HUICOMA has halted its operations and furloughed 500 workers, which
could strain the Government's political commitment to the planned CMDT reforms. The
loss of a ready market for its cottonseed could further aggravate CMDT's financial
situation in addition to concern over HUICOMA's as yet unpaid debt to CMDT
amounting to CFAF 20 billion (US$40 million). To be closely watched is the potential
impact on CMDT's governance structure and privatization process of the recent
postponement of the privatization of CMDT's minority shareholder (French company
DAGRIS), which holds shares in and plays a significant role in cotton companies in other
West African countries.




5The new stabilization fund is owned by the farmers, in contrast to the previous fund of the 1990s that was
held by the CMDT which eventually depleted the fund to finance its own losses.

6A feature of the new price mechanism compared with the previous one is that sector revenues are now
shared 40-60 between the CMDT and producers, respectively, and that the reference variable for revenue
sharing is gross sector revenues rather than net CMDT revenues. This feature ensures that farmers obtain a
fair share of sector revenues, and was intended to provide incentive for CMDT to become more efficient in
managing its costs within the 40 percent sector revenue envelope.




                                                    16

On the positive side, while management weaknesses of the CMDT and the weakening of
the dollar relative to the CFA franc are resulting in continued annual losses, this has not
translated into cash transfers from the public treasury (and related crowding out of
priority expenditure) to the CMDT. Instead, the Government has decided to recapitalize
the CMDT's by converting government debt owed by the CMDT into equity during
2007. The CMDT privatization strategy adopted in 2005 is being implemented
satisfactorily, with the target of privatizing the company in 2008 with enhanced
participation of farmer organizations, whose capacities are being strengthened. At the
same time, to minimize further financial losses and safeguard sector operations during the
transition, the authorities introduced a monthly cash management committee chaired by
the Ministry of Economy and Finance to review the expenditures undertaken and agree
on an expenditure plan for the subsequent month. CMDT is reported to be benefiting
from this increased government oversight; however, the Bank has recommended that the
Government share the committee's minutes with Mali's budget support donors, along
with regular updates on CMDT's financial situation.

In the financial sector, the achievements are mixed. On the positive side, recapitalization,
restructuring and improved management of the Mali Housing Bank (Banque de l'Habitat
du Mali ­ BHM) has enabled it to resume its lending activities and lift all ceilings on
deposit withdrawals. The Mali International Bank (Banque Internationale pour le Mali ­
BIM) was also restructured with a view to its privatization and its information system is
being modernized. Less favorable is that the BIM's privatization process is currently
stalled, with no action having been taken since the court ruling in 2006 clarifying the
ownership of the bank. Also, the process of establishing the portfolio clean-up strategies
for each bank experienced some delays, due in part to weak commitment of the private
sector banks, and hence implementation of the portfolio clean up is behind schedule. An
acceleration of the above efforts is needed in order to achieve the target of reducing non-
performing loans from 29% in mid-2005 to 20% by mid-2008.

In the micro-finance area, the Government separated the supervisory from the promotion
activity, placing them in two separate entities. In view of the concentration of the sector,
the promotion activities are expected to encourage new entrants, particularly in
geographic areas with a minimal presence of microfinance institutions. The Government
intends to encourage the consolidation of individual institutions into networks, so as to
contribute to more efficient supervision. In preparation for the upcoming closure in April
2008 of the Financial Sector Development Project which had financed microfinance
supervision activities, the Government began as of 2006 to progressively increase its own
budget allocation for microfinance supervision activities to ensure sustainability of the
units operations.

Under private sector development, for export promotion, in October 2006 the
Government adopted an "arrêté" removing the expertise tax on handicraft exports that
was previously collected by the national museum. It is expected that this would enhance
the export performance of the crafts sector and strengthen the capacity of artisans. The
Government has also started to establish norms and standards that will allow agricultural
products to comply with export markets requirements.



                                            17

In August 2006, the "single identification number" which will result in the elimination of
four procedures in business start up through the combination of five separate registration
requirements (tax administration, treasury, statistics and informatics, social security, and
labor) into one, was signed into law. While the number of procedures to create an
enterprise was 13 in 2006, this number is expected to be reduced to 9 in 2007 under the
PRSC-2, 7 in 2008, and 6 in 2009, following establishment of one-stop window for
investors during 2007 based on new legal texts and taking account of the new law for the
single identification number. These actions are envisioned to generate a favorable
investment climate.

For trade facilitation, with the support of the EU and France, Mali launched a program
during 2004-2007 to improve customs performance. Some computerization of customs
procedures has been implemented under the program. It is observed that efficiency of
customs clearance has improved and reduced the cost to the private sector. For instance,
share of customs declaration cleared in the green risk category was 18% by June 2007,
exceeding the Government target of 10% for 2007. Similarly, the share of customs
declarations cleared in the red risk category was 75% by June 2007, which surpassed7 the
target of 80% for 2007. The authorities are implementing the recommendations of an
audit completed in 2006 by the World Customs Organization, and have posted notable
progress on: (i) extention of the capabilities of the customs administration software
SYDONIA++, (ii) extension of training programs on SYDONIA++ to all customs agents,
(iii) further development of the Customs intranet, and (iv) establishment of an action plan
to strengthen internal controls

Regarding the Office du Niger irrigation reforms, the Government undertook a
comprehensive organizational audit of the Office du Niger in 2006 (under the PRSC-1
program), with a view to better rationalize management, enhance producer capacities and
build a balanced relationship between the ON and producers in water management.
Under the PRSC-2 program, the authorities are working on an action plan to address the
shortcomings identified in the above audit, to be finalized in 2007 and implemented
thereafter into 2008. Elaboration of the action plan also takes into account the
recommendations of the February 2007 financial audit conducted by the independent
Office of the Auditor General (Bureau du Vérificateur Général), in addition to the
recommendation of the ON audit.

Under the National Rural Infrastructure Program (PNIR), the Government is piloting two
financing mechanisms to attract private sector financing of irrigation including: (i) an
experimental test whereby small-scale farmers (3 ha each) and large-scale (more than 30
ha) commercial farmers who can access land titles are settled in the Komouna zone, to
co-finance the development of irrigation area; and (ii) a study to set up an irrigation
funding mechanism whereby the private sector will get incentives to invest in the
development of irrigated land. The Government has already developed the Koumouna



7The objective is to reduce the share of customs declarations in the red risk category, to enable quicker
customs processing of imported goods. Thus, the 75% achievement is better than the 80% target set in 2007.




                                                    18

perimeter (1115 ha) and selected 130 small-scale farmers to be settled there. The number
of hectares developed with private funds was 0 in 2005. It is expected to increase to 834
in 2007 and to 3,000 by 2009. These actions are expected to increase the cultivation
intensity rate from 1.2 to 1.5 by 2009, and increase the irrigation maintenance ratio from
50%8 in 2005 to 80% by 2009.

With the participation of the main stakeholders, the Government has prepared a
comprehensive master plan for development of the ON zone that underlines the vision
and strategy for its development, including the integration of decentralization aspects.
The plan addresses the main strategic issues for the irrigated zone covered by ON, but
also includes the main aspect of the comprehensive development of agriculture, livestock
as well as local development. The master plan is a key instrument for aligning and
harmonizing donor interventions in the ON zone.

The Malian authorities are addressing the issue of high transportation and transit costs
that hinder growth, by commencing implementation of an integrated road transport and
transit facilitation program. During 2006 under the EPPFMC, the authorities allocated
the requisite funds for road maintenance, and made operational SYDONIA++ (the
improved customs administration software) at the Bamako railway station. In order to
avoid exacerbating inefficiencies in the trucking industry due to proliferation of small
informal operators, the Government decided not to extend the tariff exemption on vehicle
imports beyond the end-September 2005 expire date. Subsequently under the PRSC-1,
the authorities ensured adequate resources for road maintenance, and improved the
financing mechanisms: first, the budget allocation for road maintenance was increased;
second, a new road user fee was introduced (through a re-negotiated pre-shipment
inspection contract) to fund road maintenance, to raise fee-based funding to 30 percent of
the road maintenance budget during 20079; third, the regular transfer, to the road
authority, of the road user fee collected from petroleum imports was secured through the
addition of a separate line in the price structure of petroleum products.

Achievement of the first objective is moderately satisfactory.

The operation sought to achieve the second objective of improving efficiency,
accountability and transparency in public finance management through strengthening
public expenditure management (at central and decentralized levels) and the public
procurement system. The public expenditure management program under the EPPFMC
focused on the preparation and adoption, as well as the establishment of the institutional
framework for the implementation, of a medium term action plan to strengthen and



8The irrigation maintenance ratio measures the share of ON irrigated areas in which the irrigation canals
are being maintained. Thus in 2005, canals on 50% of ON irrigated areas were maintained.

9Although this measure was achieved, there remains an issue with transfer to the Road Authority of the
new fee, which is collected by a private association (National Employer's Advisory Group, the Conseil
National du Patronat). The Government needs to pursue discussions with the association to establish a
mechanism for transfer of the fee proceeds.




                                                     19

modernize Mali's public finance management, drawing on the various diagnostics
produced in recent years including the CFAA, CPAR, ROSC, HIPC-AAP, and EU
expenditure conformity assessment. The action plan (PAGAMGFP), which covers the
period 2006-2008 and includes procurement reforms, was an essential element in the
Government's dialogue with donors. It laid the groundwork for the shift from project-
based aid toward increased use of budget support and harmonized donor assistance. At
the same time, the authorities completed in early 2007 a Public Expenditure and
Fiduciary Accountability (PEFA) exercise to help monitor impact of the Government's
PFM action plan (PAGAMGFP) by establishing a baseline rating of Mali's PFM
performance, and to identify policy measures to strengthen the PAGAMGFP.

The actions supported by the EPPFMC have strengthened the process of interconnection
of key MEF departments at the decentralized level in terms of budget execution. This
process is consistent with the government's Institutional Development Program to
operationalize the decentralization policy comprising de-concentration of central
government operations (specifically health, education and water supply) to regional
departments so as to facilitate the operations of local governments. It is also consistent
with the coordination framework with other external partners supporting Mali's
decentralization program.

There is also improvement in public expenditure management capabilities toward greater
efficiency and transparency, as demonstrated by the increase in the number of sector
ministries with automated financial data transfer with MEF from 0 in 2004 to 4 in 2006
and then to 6 by June 2007.

The EPPFMC has contributed to capacity building of audit departments and has enhanced
performance-based management regarding budget control functions. For instance, actions
such as establishing a framework for consultations between all participating entities in the
public expenditure control system; and providing adequate financial and human resources
for implementation of 2006 activities of the Finance Inspection department, have
strengthened audit departments in the administrative control of the budget. Likewise,
providing adequate resources in the 2006 budget for the eventual change in the statutory
number of staff for the Accounts Section of the Supreme Court; and defining the timeline
for the establishment of the Court of Accounts consistent with Mali's commitment under
WAEMU, have strengthened the jurisdictional control of the budget by audit departments.

Systematic and timely production of budgetary information has strengthened public
finance management and transparency. Establishing the website of the MEF along with
the institutional framework for daily management, and regular updating of the site
supported by the EPPFMC were instrumental in achieving this goal. As regards
accountability, the MEF backlog in preparing the draft budget execution reports for
submission to the Account Section of the Supreme Court was cleared in 2005, following
which MEF has maintained timely preparation and submission of the draft reports as
required by law.

For the public procurement system, the Government: (i) revised the composition of the
procurement reform committee (the Comité National de Coordination et de Suivi de la


                                           20

Réforme du système des marchés publics ­ CNCS) in 2005; (ii) adopted the updated
CPAR report, and (iii) hired an international consultant in order to assist the CNCS in the
drafting of the laws and decrees for the new code, the new bodies and all related
regulatory texts. Over the medium term, the Government aims to implement the updated
CPAR action plan, which the Government is incorporating into its Action Plan for
strengthening and modernizing the PFM system. This year (2007) the Government has
prepared a draft decree on the new Procurement Code as well as draft texts for creation of
the departments of regulation and control of procurement, all of which are to be adopted
by end-2007 under the PRSC-2.

Achievement of the second objective is satisfactory.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

         Rating: Moderately satisfactory

As discussed in Section 3.1, the objectives of the EPPFMC remain highly relevant to
Mali's current priorities and the Bank's CAS. The operation contributed to strengthening
the Government's macroeconomic and fiscal management, implementing key actions
underpinning Mali's long-term growth and competitiveness, and improving efficiency,
accountability and transparency in public finance management, and thus the overall
outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. This assessment is valid despite the fact that
one of the two performance indicators that were retrofitted during the first ISR has not
been achieved (share of non-performing loans in the banking sector), the achievements in
the cotton sector and banking privatization are mixed, and the ex-ante M&E framework
was insufficiently developed.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty impact: Mali's recent economic growth and policy performance have been
contributory factors to its poverty alleviation. The national poverty headcount rate
declined from 55% in 2001 to 48% in 2006. Poverty is seen to decline in all regions other
than the cotton growing areas where a slight increase in poverty during the period was
found. Attribution of the poverty results to the EPPFMC is not possible due to
unavailability of data and the short time frame period covered by the operation. Since the
cotton sector reforms are still ongoing, it is premature to expect to see any poverty impact
in the cotton areas.

Gender Aspects and Social Development: N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)




                                               21

The operation contributed to institutional strengthening as demonstrated by the following:

MTEF. The operation facilitated updating and integrating MTEF into the budget process
and helped in the preparation of the GPRSF for 2007-2011. The Bank was able to achieve
this by supporting the strengthening of the existing regulatory framework. The
Government is currently implementing an Action Plan to strengthen Public Financial
Management integrated into the regulatory framework of Mali's budget process.

PRSP Unit. The operation helped strengthen the PRSP Unit of the Government. Four
divisions are currently working within the Unit, including those working on the macro
framework and social sectors. The preparation of the second generation of the PRSF was
coordinated by the strengthened PRSP Unit. In addition, the Unit was able to produce the
2006 PRSP Annual Progress Report within the 2008 budget preparation calendar.

Public Expenditure Management: The authorities have prepared and adopted a
Consolidated Government Action Pan to Modernize and Strengthen Public Finance
Management (PAGAMGFP           10) over the medium term (2006-2008), signaling the
government's commitment to addressing the key weaknesses in the PFM. This would
help achieving increased aid flows through budget support for PRSF implementation.
They had provisioned resources in the draft 2006 budget for the 2006 actions in the
PAGAMGFP, and implemented precursor actions identified for 2005 to enable timely
implementation PAGAMGFP in 2006. Implementation of the PAGAMGFP continued
during 2007, with the strengthening of the monitoring framework in the form of monthly
monitoring meetings chaired by MEF's Secretary General. The first quarter
implementation report for 2007, which was discussed recently with the donors, indicates
significant achievements in the implementation of the reforms. In particular, additional
actions were identified to address the issues raised in the recent PEFA undertaken in Mali.
The Bank support included helping the Government coordinate all the donors in
supporting the implementation of its action plan.

The EPPFMC also helped the authorities put in place the CARFIP which is the unit in
charge of the coordination of the implementation of the PAGAMGFP. Currently, this unit
is fully operational and well integrated in the MEF. The unit is playing a key role in the
harmonization process in Mali, acting as the focal point for the implementation of the
PFM reforms and preparing reports for internal (Government) and external (donors
providing budget support) uses.

Private sector development. By including this component in the EPPFMC in the context
of a medium term reform agenda, the operation has contributed to sustaining the capacity
for implementing the Government's action plan (elaborated in consultation with the
private sector in the context of the bi-annual President's Investor Council meetings) to
improve Mali's business climate. The operation facilitated implementation of early



10Plan d'Action Gouvernemental pour l'Amélioration et la Modernisation de la Gestion des Finances
Publiques.




                                              22

business climate reform measures. The decree, adopted under the operation, that
permanently eases the regulatory burden to starting a business, underpins one of the next
phase measures, that of establishing a one-stop window for investors which the
authorities are in the process of setting up.

Office du Niger irrigation zone. The operation supported the harmonization of donor
involvement in the ON zone, through extensive consultations and agreement with the
donors on the measures included in the EPPFMC. The program has also enabled
strengthening of the framework for introducing private funding of irrigation in the zone.
The reforms in the zone are being enhanced by development (during 2007) of an action
plan to strengthen management of the zone, based on the organization audit completed
under the EPPFMC, and on a separate financial audit undertaken by the Office of the
Auditor General.

Transport and transit facilitation. The operation's emphasis on assured funding for road
maintenance, part of which is from a dedicated income stream (road user fees
independent of the government budget), has strengthened the operations of the Road
Authority, the corporate entity whose mandate is to plan maintenance works and procure
maintenance services through the private sector. The government's financing effort for
road maintenance has been sustained in 2007 under PRSC-1, including implementation of
a measure to raise the share of funding obtained from road user fees. Adoption of new
legal texts (arrêté) to inscribe a separate line item for the road user fee in the pricing
structure of petroleum products enhances transparency of this fee, making it easier to
increase the fee in the future as needed. As such, it lays the foundation for future
strengthening of the Road Authority's operations.

Financial sector development. The Government's actions under the operation have
restored the viability of the Mali Housing Bank, enabling it to resume lending operations
on a more prudent basis. As mentioned in Section 3.2 regarding microfinance, the
Government has separated the supervisory from the promotion activity, and placed them
in two separate entities, thereby enabling the strengthening of supervisory activities
through assured dedicated funding and capacity building.

Procurement. The strengthening of the national procurement steering committee has
allowed the Government to focus adequately on procurement reform issues. This has
enabled the timely adoption of the updated CPAR and the ongoing drafting of legal texts
for a sound regulatory and control framework, which pave the way for the establishment
of the procurement regulatory and control departments planned for 2008.

Cotton sector. As part of the CMDT privatization strategy, the Government commenced
capacity building activities for producer organizations, to enable producers to play a more
effective role in the new privatized sector environment. Also, the operation's emphasis on
minimizing the fiscal risk of cotton sector losses has led to the establishment of a cash
management committee in late 2006 chaired by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to
oversee financial management of the CMDT in the transition period leading up to its
privatization. The operation facilitated the harmonization of the cotton sector dialogue



                                             23

among the donors, who now work together and coordinate with the Government with one
voice.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

          Rating:   Moderate


(i) Risk of not sustaining growth and poverty reduction.

This risk would materialize if the Government's commitment to continue some structural
reforms, particularly in the cotton and financial sectors, wanes. While such a risk is
reduced given the April 2007 re-election of the incumbent president, it is still possible
that implementation of difficult reforms could stall. The Bank's country team continues
to monitor this risk regularly in order to detect problem areas early on so as to be able to
adjust the Bank's response as needed.

Mali's vulnerability to climatic/natural shocks (drought), exchange rate and commodity
price fluctuations (cotton, oil and gold) and risks stemming from regional political
instability could threaten maintenance of the achievements in growth and poverty
reduction. The Government is implementing a three-pronged approach to address its
vulnerability to external shocks, including: (i) in the energy sector, by initiating the
process of interconnection with its neighbors and by bringing in private operators to
generate electricity (particularly for peri-urban users), to supplement the electricity
provided by the public utility company EDM; (ii) by ensuring adequate pass-through of
world cotton prices and better risk sharing between producers and ginning companies
through the continuous application of the cotton producer price setting mechanism, thus
reducing the potential fiscal impact of continuous low cotton priced, as well as by
enhancing productivity and competitiveness of the cotton sector; and (iii) supporting
economic diversification through reforms of the investment climate and promotion of
mining and irrigated agriculture. The Government is accompanied in its reform efforts by
IDA's series of PRSCs, the IMF supported PRGF arrangement and support from a range
of other development partners. Lastly, risks stemming from regional political instability
remain but are considered as moderate. The Malian economy has shown some resilience
in adjusting to the Cote d'Ivoire crisis by opening new trade routes. Also, the recent
peace agreement among the opposing parties in Côte d'Ivoire augurs well for reducing
this risk.

        Rating: Moderate

(ii) Risk of not sustaining improved efficiency, accountability and transparency of public
finance management.


                                             24

This outcome is most likely to be sustained due to the Government's steady progress in
automating the budget processes, which provides the platform for improved record
keeping, improved generation and review of budget information in a timely manner, and
dissemination of budget information to the public. Progress on the automation of budget
processes is being facilitated through coordination (as of 2006) with the government-
wide information technology architecture under implementation, enabling use of the
existing or planned fiber optics and cables. Having completed automation at central level
at the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and established automated links to MEF
of budget implementation records of four large Ministries, the authorities are now
focusing on extending automation to key MEF departments in Mali's regions. Steady
progress on this objective is thus expected to continue.

         Rating: Negligible to low

Based on the moderate risk to the above outcomes, the overall risk rating to the
development outcome is also rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

         Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the preparation of the operation was satisfactory. The
preparation process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
macroeconomic, financial, and cotton sectors. The EPPFMC's objectives were consistent
with the Government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. During preparation,
the Bank assessed the operation's risks and benefits, and lessons learned from earlier
operations were incorporated in the design. Also, the operation supported selected
reforms in the Government's program and the list of prior actions included reforms that
were deemed essential to its successful implementation.

The Bank closely coordinated the work of the EPPFMC with the IMF team and other
bilateral partners, especially in the area of macroeconomic and fiscal management,
financial sector reform and public financial management. This was in line with
intensifying efforts to establish a unified framework for budget support in 2006. The
Bank and the Fund coordinated closely on the macroeconomic and structural policy
dialogue. As regards cotton reforms, the Bank shared views and collaborated closely with
development partners including France, EU, the Netherlands, Canada, Sweden, and the
USA.

With the Bank playing a key role, several donors participated in the elaboration of the
action plan for microfinance 2005-2008 which was adopted in April 2005 by the Council
of Ministers. They also agreed to fund some of these activities. The Bank placed the



                                              25

emphasis on regulatory issues. On irrigation, the Bank worked very closely with ON
donors' coordination unit, which was comprised of all ON donors: AFD, the Netherlands,
the European Union, USAID, and Germany. On PSD, consultations were held with other
donors, particularly USAID and the European Union, during preparation of the operation
to ensure a coordinated effort. Regarding Transport and Trade Facilitation, the Bank
closely coordinated with the other donors involved in road maintenance and road transit
in Mali and in the region. Preparation of the regional road transport and transit facilitation
program was launched during a regional workshop organized in Accra in November
2003. All West African countries, the two regional economic institutions, representatives
from the private sector and from six donors attended the workshop. Joint missions to
prepare the program were carried out with the African Development Bank (AfDB) in
April 2004, July 2004 and May 2005. The Bank prepared simultaneously with the AfDB
similar operations on the Abidjan-Lagos and Cotonou-Niamey corridors. The Bank also
closely coordinated with the EU which prepared its own contribution to the regional
program.

The Bank undertook a number of pieces of analytical and fiduciary work to underpin the
design of the operation. Considerable analytical effort was taken in assessing the
effectiveness of public spending in Mali, including a CFAA, CPAR, and the WB/IMF
HIPC AAP report, and a study was done on implementing the decentralization policy
based on two pilot regions. These helped identify the strengths and main shortcomings in
Mali's fiduciary system, and helped the authorities prepare two key action plans for
reforms that integrate the various studies--one on public finance management (the
Government Action Plan for Modernizing and Strengthening Public Finance
Management 2006-2008), and the other the Institutional Development Program to
support implementation of the decentralization policy). These action plans were key
instruments toward increased donor harmonization in Mali.

As noted in section 2.2 (v), the underdeveloped results framework was an obvious
shortcoming of the operation's design. This shortcoming has been rectified with the fully
developed results framework for Mali's reform agenda in the course of the Mali PRSC-1
preparation. The indicators included ex-post in the first ISR, complete with baselines and
target values, were relevant to capture progress on the PDOs. These indicators could have
been explicitly identified in the design stage itself to monitor the program. This lesson
was adequately reflected in the design of the PRSC-1 which followed this operation and
which developed a more detailed M&E framework. During the preparation of PRSC-1,
the Bank articulated the results framework with the government, including identifying
indicators to monitor performance of the program as well as specifying baseline and
target values. Among these indicators two were selected ex-post for monitoring the
EPPFMC. For this purpose, the Bank drew upon reliable data available with the
Government or other public entities such as the central bank. This approach of using
PRSC indicators enabled the task team to overcome the deficiency of not having
developed a complete indicator framework ex-ante.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)




                                            26

         Rating: Satisfactory

Even though there was no formal supervision since this was a one-tranche operation
disbursed on the basis of achievement of prior actions, there was implicit supervision of the
program during preparation of the follow-on operation, the PRSC-1.11 During this period, the
task team focused on the development impact of the operation, and played an active role in
ensuring adequate transition arrangements. For instance, the Bank and the Fund coordinated
closely on the macroeconomic and structural policy dialogue. The Bank's technical
meetings with the authorities were open to participation by other donors, in line with
Government's request, and mission information was shared with other development
partners at the beginning and end of each mission. In addition, agreement on key areas of
the structural policy dialogue for follow-up reforms was reached with the authorities and
the donors, and was jointly monitored (e.g., cotton sector, Office du Niger irrigation
reforms).

A sector-wide approach agreed with all donors was established for the education and
health sectors, as well as for the rural water supply and sanitation program. The Bank
also participated in the August 2006 Fund mission to discuss the draft 2007 budget and
finalize the 2007 macroeconomic and fiscal framework to be support by the PRSC-1.
Also, the Bank's Bamako Country Office provided quick response and follow-up on any
emerging issues in the areas covered by the EPPFMC during this period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

         Rating: Satisfactory

On the basis of the above assessment of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry
and in supervision, overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower's commitment to and ownership of reforms was adequate and satisfactory.
The Government's commitment was evident in their successful completion of the reforms
supported under SAC III (December 2001) and SAC IV (March 2005), and by their
request for a successor operation to support the next phase of reforms under its PRSF.
Mali's ownership of its reforms was also reflected in the track record under the IMF-
supported PRGF program, and implementation of the PRSF.

The participating Ministries and Agencies furnished relevant documents accompanied by
explanatory notes to the MEF's MMU, which was responsible for overall coordination of


11The supervision activities were recorded, for budget purposes, under the PRSC-1 preparation code. The
dates of the PRSC-1 missions in which the Mali reform program supported by the EPPFMC was reviewed,
were 17 July to 1st August 2006 and 5-27 October 2006.




                                                     27

supervision and monitoring of program implementation. The MMU confirmed and
validated those notes and other documentation, and consolidated them into a package of
information provided to the Bank. The package covered: (i) progress on the
implementation of the actions in the policy matrix, (ii) progress on the jointly agreed key
performance indicators; (ii) macroeconomic developments, particularly budgetary
outcomes; and (iii) status of the deposit account. On a monthly basis, budget revenues
and expenditures, reconciled bank accounts and statements of the EPPFMC's deposit
account were submitted to the Bank. On a yearly basis, the detailed draft budget was
provided for review and discussion.

For Transport and trade facilitation, the Road Authority produced monthly reports
detailing: resources transferred from the Government budget, revenues from the axle load
duty, revenues from the road user charge on petroleum products and revenues from road
tolls. For private sector development measures (export assessment tax and investment
climate), the Ministry of Investment Promotion, responsible for policy measures
pertaining to business start up and property registration, worked closely with the Planning
Ministry (on the single identification number) as well as the "Ministère des Domaines de
l'Etat" (on property registration issues). For handicrafts exports, whilst the Ministries in
charge of handicrafts and culture were responsible for the passing of the "arrêté
interministérel" and for the communication campaign, the MEF retained the primary
responsibility of ensuring implementation of the measure as agreed in the context of the
operation and reporting on progress.

On the other hand, the performance of the Government was less than adequate regarding
the CMDT. When the company was experiencing a new financial crisis in 2005-06 due
both to external shocks and a continuing weak financial and technical management, the
Government could have been more proactive and transparent on CMDT's financial
situation. The Government could have tried to intervene in the company to put in place a
mechanism that would improve transparency of the financial accounting and also to
improve the financial situation of the company. To redress the situation, the Government
introduced a cash management committee for CMDT in late 2006, chaired by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, which meets monthly with CMDT management to
oversee the company's resource use and identify corrective actions as needed. Though
initial resistant of the closer oversight of its main shareholder, the CMDT now
appreciates the feedback received from the committee which it views as being very
helpful.

6. Lessons Learned     (both operation-specific and of wide general application)

    · For a country such as Mali with weak institutional and administrative capacities,
        it is important to be realistic on what can be achieved, and be selective on the
        issues to be undertaken within a short timeframe. This lesson was adhered to in
        the EPPFMC (General applicability).

    · The operation demonstrated the merits of including in Mali's policy-based
        lending operations, policy and institutional reforms measures complementary to
        and supportive of ongoing sector operations. Inclusion of institutional reform


                                              28

        measures for the Office du Niger (ON) in this operation and the previous policy-
        based operation, is facilitating the achievement of the reforms in the ON.
        Inclusion of financial sector measures that advance implementation of actions
        identified under the sector technical assistance operation, is also proving to be
        useful.

    · It is important to develop a complete M&E/Results framework to enable clear
        assessment of program outcomes. Absence of clear baseline values or target years
        in the EPPFMC results framework did not readily permit measurement of
        achievements after the one year horizon of the operation. However, this
        deficiency has been rectified with the fully developed results framework under the
        follow-on PRSC-1 operation.

    · Policy measures should be better matched to the objectives sought. In the Mali
        cotton case, although the cotton reform actions were and continue being
        implemented, the cotton sector remains in a precarious financial situation due not
        only to weak CMDT management but also to: stagnant or adverse international
        cotton prices, and an appreciating currency resulting in lower local-currency
        denominated revenues on marketed cotton. The operation emphasized processes
        leading to eventual CMDT privatization in 2008, without including adequate
        complementary measures to address CMDT management weaknesses. The price
        mechanism, which was to provide incentive for CMDT to improve its financial
        management, has not been successful in this regard notwithstanding the
        mechanism's success in restoring the farmers' confidence in the sector.

Lessons reflected in the follow-up operation.

In line with the lessons from SAC III, SAC IV, and the EPPFMC, the PRSC-1 had a
selective policy focus aiming to provide predictable support for the Government's annual
reform and budget program. The operation included only policy measures that were
critical to Mali's economic performance, growth and poverty reduction that were either
not addressed in other Bank operations or that required a higher profile in the dialogue
with Mali. Like the EPPFMC, the PRSC-1 had an uncomplicated structure with three key
pillars, and its preparation continued the tradition of participatory collaboration with the
authorities and donors, including wide sharing of information and consultation with key
donors. The PRSC-1 features a small number of conditionalities (prior actions)
comprising the reform measures that were critical to achieving the PRSC objectives.
Further, realizing from the experience of EPPFMC that one year time horizon is too short
a period for supporting such reforms and on the basis of the Government's medium-term
reform program provided by the PRSF, PRSC-1 forms part of a three-year series of
annual programmatic development policy operations. Furthermore, the PRSC-1 followed
the approach of previous operations of incorporating policies and reform measures
complementary to ongoing sector operations. To address CMDT's financial management,
the Government was persuaded under PRSC-1 to establish a cash management committee
for the CMDT, chaired by the Finance Ministry.




                                             29

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

       The Borrower had no specific comments on the Draft ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

       N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

       N/A




                                           30

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                        Title               Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Christina A. Wood        Senior Economist                     AFTP4 TTL

Bhanoumatee Ayoung       Lead Procurement Specialist          OPCPR Procurement
                                                                    component
Mary A. Barton-Dock      Sector Manager                       AFTS4 Cotton/Irrigation

Robert R. Blake          Sector Manager                       AFTP4 TTL's Sector
                                                                    Manager (PREM)
Sidi Mohamed Boubacar    Lead Counsel                         LEGAF Legal

Nestor Coffi             Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM Financial
                                                                    Management
A. David Craig           Country Director                     MNC04 Country Director
Renee M. Desclaux        Finance Officer                      LOAG2 Disbursement
Alassane Diarra          Consultant                           AFTH2 Human development
Judite Fernandes         Language Program Assistant           AFTP4 General support
                                                                    Transport and transit
Jean-Noel Guillossou     Senior Transport. Economist          SASEI facilitation
                                                                    component
Bakary Tieman Kante      Consultant                           AFTS4 Cotton/Irrigation

Abdoulaye Konate         Senior Economist                     AFTP4 Public Finance
                                                                    Management
Patrick Labaste          Lead Agriculture Economist           AFTS4 Cotton

Andre Ryba               Lead Financial Sector Specialist     AFTFS Financial Sector
                                                                    component

Djibrilla Issa           Senior Financial Sector Specialist   AFTFS Financial Sector
                                                                    component
Yeyande Kasse Sangho     Senior Operations Officer            AFTS4 Cotton/Irrigation
Aoua Toure Sow           Team Assistant                      AFMML General support
Boulel Toure             E T Consultant                       AFTP4 Growth analysis

Cheick Traore            Sr Procurement Specialist            AFTPC Procurement
                                                                    component


Supervision
Christina A. Wood        Senior Economist                     AFTP4 TTL

Alain Jean Catalan       Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM Public Finance
                                                                    Management
Glaucia Reis Ferreira    Language Program Assistant           AFTP4 General support
Sabine Hader             Senior Country Officer               AFCGH General support

Abdoulaye Konate         Senior Economist                     AFTP4 Public Finance
                                                                    Management
Francois Nankobogo       Sr Operations Off.                   AFTPS Private sector
Andre Ryba               Lead Financial Sector Specialist     AFTFS Financial sector

Djibrilla Issa           Senior Financial Sector Specialist   AFTFS Financial Sector
                                                                    component
Yeyande Kasse Sangho     Senior Operations Officer            AFTS4 Cotton/Irrigation



                                           31

Abdoulaye Toure                Senior Rural Development Specialist    AFTS4 Cotton/Irrigation



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                Stage
                                             No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY05                                                1                          7.70
   FY06                                              41                         182.45
   FY07                                                2                          2.96
                               Total:                44                         193.11
Supervision/ICR*
   FY05                                                                           0.00
   FY06                                                                           0.00
   FY07                                                                          15.26
   FY08                                                                          10.15
                               Total:                                            25.41
* Informal supervision was conducted as part of PRSC-1 preparation.




                                                  32

Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower did not prepare its own ICR and had no specific comments on the Draft
ICR.




                                         33

Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Program Document, Mali Economic Policy and Public Finance Management
 Credit (EPPFMC), December 2005; Report No. 34053-ML
 2. Letter of Development Policy (December 2005).
 3. Program Document, Mali First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1),
 February 2007, Report No. 37969-ML.
 4. Mali Country Assistance Strategy, July 2003.
 5. Mali: Strategic Poverty Reduction Framework, May 2002.
 6. Mali: Strategic Growth and Poverty Reduction Framework, December 2006.
 7. Mali Integrated Trade Diagnostic Study: Expanding and Diversifying Trade for
 Growth and Poverty Reduction (FY04).
 8. Mali--From Sector Diagnostics toward an Integrated Growth Strategy: a
 Country Economic Memorandum (FY07).
 9. Mali Investment Climate Assessment (FY05).
 10. HIPC Assessment and Implementation of Action Plans to Strengthen
 Capacity to Track Poverty Reducing Public Expenditures. IMF document
 (FY04).




                                         34

