Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1534 
Operation Name 
First Development Policy Credit (DPC I) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%); General finance 
sector (10%); Irrigation and drainage (10%); Roads and highways 
(10%); General industry and trade sector (10%). 
Project ID 
P083799 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance coordinates 
implementation, which also involves several line ministries and 
agencies 
Date PID Prepared 
August 11, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 13, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 8, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali has made good progress overall on its institutional and structural reforms, although a substantial 
agenda remains.  Reforms comprised public expenditure management, market liberalization (both 
internal and external), transfer of many state-owned enterprises and banks to full or majority private 
sector ownership (or management, in the case of concession contracts), restoration of democratically-
elected government and nationally-representative legislature, and progressive implementation of a 
decentralization program since the late 1990s.  Recent actions include the preparation of a national 
poverty strategy (initially in 1998 and updated in 2002) through a participatory process, strengthening of 
the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) process with the establishment of MTEF 
simulation/management models in health and education sectors, introduction of MTEF model in the 
transport sector as well as at the global government level, improvements in information quality and use 
within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and increased transparency of financial management 
information.  The enterprise privatization process continues albeit at a very slow pace at times.  Of 
particular concern is the continued majority state ownership of the cotton ginning company CMDT, 
together with weak management of the company, resulting in high risks of transfer from the state budget 
for 
the company’s potential financial losses.  The recently adopted mechanism for setting the cotton 
producer price to reflect international market realities is an important step toward minimizing budgetary 
risk;  nonetheless, introduction of private management of the company (planned in 2008 by the 
Government) is the only sustainable mechanism for improving performance of Mali’s cotton sector.  
 
Mali continues to face significant economic and social challenges despite the achievements over the past 
decade and half, justifying continued Bank involvement.  In response to sustained market-oriented 
economic and political reforms over the last decade and a half, Mali’s real GDP growth has averaged 
over 5 percent a year since 1994 (the year the currency was devalued).  Gross national income per capita 
(atlas method) increased from US$240 in 1994 to US$370 in 2004, a 4.0 percent average annual 
increase.  Nonetheless, an estimated 64% of Mali’s population lived below the poverty line in 2001, and 
Mali’s social indicators remain among the poorest in the world.  Mali’s economy remains fragile in view 
of the economy’s vulnerability to climatic conditions, commodity price fluctuations (primarily of cotton, 
oil, gold).  As a land-locked country, Mali also faces challenges due to weak development of 
Page  2
infrastructure and transportation services, and to economic and political conditions in neighboring 
countries.  As with other low income countries, administrative capacity is also weak. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The DPC I contributes to implementation of the first two and fourth 
pillars of Mali’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Framework (PRSF), namely:  accelerated and re-distributive growth in a context of 
macroeconomic stability and openness, driven by the private sector;  institutional development 
(including public finance management), governance and participation;  and basic infrastructure and 
productive economic activities.  Specifically, the DPC I aims to:   
 
 
(i) 
promote growth and poverty reduction through (a) strengthening macroeconomic and fiscal 
management and (b) implementing key actions underpinning 
Mali’s long-term growth and 
competitiveness
;
(ii) 
improve efficiency, accountability and transparency in public finance management
 
through 
strengthening (a) public expenditure management at central and decentralized levels and (b) the 
public procurement system
.
Actions supported by the DPC I draw from the government’s own program, specifically the 
Consolidated Action Plan for the Modernization and Improvement of Public Finance Management
1
.
The expected impacts of the DPC I include:  the formulation of a coherent growth strategy integrated 
within the poverty reduction strategy and consistent with a sustainable macroeconomic framework;  
strengthened fiscal management with minimized transfers for cotton sector losses;  strengthened 
financial sector with increased availability of longer term resources;  introduction of private financing to 
expand production in the Office de Niger irrigation command area;  increased private sector productivity 
and growth, including shared growth through lower costs of handicrafts export;  improved quality and 
sustainability of roads;  and strengthened public finance management and public procurement. 
 
Prior actions
 for presentation of the DPC I to the Board are as follows:  (i) maintenance of a prudent 
fiscal policy consistent with the macroeconomic framework;  (ii) adoption of a logical framework for 
operationalisation and appropriation of the medium term expenditure framework (global and sectoral), 
consistent with the preparation processes for the macroeconomic framework, budget preparation cycle, 
PRSP monitoring and evaluation cycle, program budget and the 2007-2011 PRSP;  (iii) adoption of a 
terms of reference for preparing the 2007-2011 PRSP integrating activities to articulate the country’s 
integrated growth strategy, together with work program and timing of the various steps in the process;  
(iv) continued implementation of the cotton producer price mechanisms with a view to limiting the 
budgetary risk of the cotton company CMDT;  (v) reconstitution of the Board of the Mali Housing Bank 
(BHM), inclusive of three private sector experts independent of the shareholders, identification of 
capitalization commitments from potential new shareholders, and inscription of a provision in the 2006 
draft budget for the BHM recapitalization;  and (vi) establishment of the institutional framework for 
implementing the consolidated government action plan for modernizing and improving management of 
public finances, definition of mechanisms for implementing, monitoring and evaluating the action plan, 
and inscription of an allocation in the 2006 draft budget to cover the costs of the 2006 time-slice of the 
action plan. 
 
1
This drew primarily from the CFAA (WB), HIPC AAP (WB/IMF), ROSC (IMF) and EU Audit. 
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
The DPC I comprises the following three components: 
 
Component 1:  Strengthening Macroeconomic, Budgetary and Fiscal Management  
The DPC I continues the agenda pursued under Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) and the 
SAC IV in support of realistic budget preparation and prudent expenditure management under the PRSF.  
This comprises continued alignment of the budget, PRSF and macroeconomic frameworks through 
strengthening the use of sector medium term expenditure frameworks, continued implementation of the 
new cotton producer price mechanism to minimize the budgetary risk of the parastatal cotton company 
CMDT
’s performance, and monitoring of CMDT’s financial situation.  The DPC-I also supports 
strengthening of the institutional frameworks for PRSF and macroeconomic coordination, including 
integration of formulation of the growth strategy.   
Component 2:  Support to Growth  
This component incorporates key actions in the financial sector, road transport and trade facilitation, 
Office du Niger
 irrigation area, and private sector development.  In the 
financial sector
,
the DPC I will 
continue the agenda initiated under SAC IV focused on laying the foundations for increased access to 
longer term financial resources that are vital to continued growth and development of Mali’s rural and 
private sectors. This comprises the strengthening bank portfolio positions through initiating the process 
to clean up non-performing loans, easing fiscal constraints to equipment leasing activities, developing 
domestic insurance activities, and strengthening pension system balances.  The DPC I also promotes 
improved management in the banking sector, including strengthening of the regulatory and supervision 
framework for microfinance institutions and better (private-sector oriented) management of banks.  
These measures will contribute to a stronger financial system and regulatory framework, thereby lower 
risk of bank insolvency and allowing greater access of small-scale Malian farmers and entrepreneurs to 
long-term resources, which is key to private sector-led growth. 
As regards 
road transportation and trade facilitation
,
the DPC I pursues the establishment of adequate 
financing mechanisms for road maintenance, actions to reduce transactions costs of road transit and 
customs processing through actions in line with the West Africa regional transit harmonization program, 
including preparatory actions toward regulating truck axle loads.  These actions will contribute to 
growth in all sectors by improving transport infrastructure quality, improving productivity and 
competitiveness of Malian trucking industry, and lowering cost of transportation services and trade.  In 
the 
Office du Niger irrigation program
,
the DPC I supports key policy and institutional aspects of the 
national rural infrastructure project (PNIR), namely implementation of the 
Contrat Plan
 that establishes 
the framework (adhered to by the Government, 
Office du Niger
,
farmers, donors) for management and 
development of irrigation in the 
Office du Niger
,
and implementation of private sector financing (along 
with supporting institutional mechanism) for expanding irrigation in the area.  In the 
private sector
,
the 
DPC I supports actions to improve the investment climate (by reducing the cost and number of steps to 
establish a business), strengthen the incentives for handicraft exports (by clarifying that those exports 
are not subject to a 10% levy aimed at protecting antiquities), and strengthen land property rights (by 
making permanent the law permitting the conversion of use rights into land titles).  Implementation of 
these actions will lower costs of doing business, and enhance access to lower cost sources of finance, 
thereby contributing to boosting growth.   
Component 3:  Public Finance Management  
Page  4
Actions under this component derive from the G
overnment’s Consolidated Action Plan for the 
Modernization and Improvement of Public Finance Management (PFM) for 2005-2008, which builds on 
past PFM reforms implemented during the SAC III and SAC IV periods.  The DPC I supports the 
establishment of the institutional framework for implementing the action plan, and of mechanisms to 
implement, monitor and evaluate the action plan.  The DPC I will ensure that the draft 2006 budget 
provides the resources needed to implement the 2006 time slice of the action plan.  Public expenditure 
management (PEM) would be strengthened through:  continuing the automation of information flows 
between key MEF de-concentrated departments (notably, treasury, budget and financial control 
departments) to increase information quality and transparency;  improving the quality of published 
material on the public finance and expenditure situation through launching of the Ministry of Economy 
and Finance’s (MEF) web site inclusive of key MEF documentation on that site;  and continued 
improvements in PEM processes, particularly internal and external budget control mechanisms.  Greater 
coordination among the various ex-ante and ex-post control departments will be pursued, in addition to 
timely preparation of budget execution reports, and preparatory activities toward eventual 
transformation of the Accounts Section of the Supreme Court into an Accounts Court (i.e., redrafting of 
legislative texts to allow for an quadruple the statutory number of magistrates, and redefining the status 
of magistrates).  Recommendations emanating from a public expenditure tracking study in the education 
sector will be adopted, and preparatory work initiated toward implementing those recommendations.   
As regards
 
public procurement
,
the
 
DPC I supports the adoption of a procurement reform action plan 
based on the Mali Country Procurement Assessment Report (being finalized taking into account 
feedback from discussions in Mali with the three stakeholders—government, private sector and civil 
society).  The adopted report and action plan would reflect the principles of (i) separation of regulatory 
from execution functions, and (ii) the need to establish an independent procurement appeals body.  To 
facilitate the process of finalizing the CPAR and overseeing implementation of the reforms, the size of 
the National Committee for coordination and monitoring of procurement reforms (CNCS) will be 
reduced, to comprise an equal number of representatives from the three stakeholder groups.   
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The implementation of the DPC-I reform program is not expected to have significant environmental 
impact. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Christina A. Wood 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5829 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Cwood@worldbank.org
 
