Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2003 
Operation Name 
Economic Policy & Public Finance Management Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%);General finance sector 
(10%);Irrigation and drainage (10%);Roads and highways 
(10%);General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P083799 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance coordinates 
implementation, which also involves several line ministries and 
agencies 
Date PID Prepared 
December 2, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 3, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
January 19, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mali benefits from a stable and inclusive political environment, having successfully concluded four 
successive Presidential elections since 1990 and two sub-national elections since 1997.  It has been a 
steady reformer over the past twenty years, albeit a plodding one at times.  In response to market-
oriented economic reforms and broad-based political reforms over the last 20 years that spurred private 
sector activity and enhanced civil society participation, Mali’s real GDP growth has averaged above 5 
percent a year since 1994 when the currency was devalued.  Gross national income per capita (atlas 
method) increased from US$240 in 1994 to US$370 in 2004, a 4.0 percent average annual increase, 
translating into reductions in poverty and inequality.   
Despite the achievements over the past decade and half, Mali faces significant economic and social 
challenges.  Over 60 percent of Mali’s population lived below the poverty line in 2001, and Mali’s 
social indicators remain among the lowest in the world—it is ranked 172 out of 175 countries in the 
Human Development Index compiled by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).  This 
partly reflects the fact that Mali is a vast landlocked country with a relatively narrow natural resource 
and human capital base.  It is the largest country in West Africa (1.22 million square kilometers) 
covering twice the size of Texas.  With a population of about 12 million, population density is very low 
(10 persons per square kilometer
1
)
resulting in high cost of public service delivery, difficulty in 
accessing nomadic communities and other segments of the rural population, and high transportation 
costs for agricultural inputs and other goods. 
Mali’s economy remains fragile in view of the economy’s vulnerability to rainfall conditions and 
commodity price fluctuations (primarily of cotton, oil, gold). The economy is dependent on agriculture 
and gold production, and exports are highly concentrated with gold and cotton together comprising over 
90 percent of export earnings.  As a land-locked country, Mali faces challenges due to weak 
development of infrastructure and transportation services, and to economic and political conditions in 
neighboring countries.  The business environment—notably road transportation but also investment 
inflow prospects—continues to suffer from the protracted stalemate in the resolution of the crisis in Côte 
1
The next largest West African country by land area, Nigeria, covers 0.9 million square km.  With a population of 129 
million people, its population density is 142 persons per km
2
.
Page  2
d’Ivoire.  As with other low income countries, administrative capacity is also weak.  A significant social, 
structural and macroeconomic agenda remains for Mali to consolidate the gains of the past to sustain 
broad-based growth, further entrench market-oriented forces in the country, and advance the poverty 
reduction program.   
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The operation is designed in support to Mali’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (PRSF), which 
outlines the country’s social, structural and macroeconomic agenda.  The operation addresses the 
PRSF’s first, second and fourth pillars, namely:  Accelerated and re-distributive growth in a context of 
macroeconomic stability and openness, and driven by the private sector; Institutional development 
(including public finance management), governance and participation; and Basic infrastructure and 
productive economic activities.  Specifically, the Credit aims to:   
 
(i)  contribute to growth and poverty reduction through (a) strengthening macroeconomic and fiscal 
management (through prudent budget management and linkage of the budget, PRSF and 
macroeconomic framework, and advancing on the cotton sector reform program); and (b) 
implementing key cross-sectoral policy reforms underpinning to long-term growth and 
competitiveness (with focus on key actions in the financial, irrigation and transport sectors and in 
trade facilitation and business climate issue areas);  and  
 
(ii) improve efficiency, accountability and transparency in public finance management through 
strengthening (a) public expenditure management at central and decentralized levels; and (b) the 
public procurement system.   
 
In addition with the alignment with the PRSF, the Credit also aligns with the government’s detailed 
sector action plans, including the cotton sector reform and the public finance management action plans.  
The government has agreed to and implemented the following prior actions before the presentation of 
the Credit to the Executive Board: 
 
·
Maintenance of a prudent budget policy consistent with the agreed macroeconomic framework; 
·
Adoption of an overall framework (chronogram) to synchronize the medium term budget 
framework and medium term sector expenditure frameworks with the processing timelines for 
the macroeconomic framework, budget preparation cycle, and preparation of the 2007-2011 
PRSF;  
·
Adoption of Terms of reference for preparing the 2007-2011 PRSF, integrating a  work program 
to coordinate the formulation and implementation of an economic growth support strategy; 
·
Continued implementation of the cotton producer price setting mechanism agreed in January 
2005 with farmer organizations and the national cotton ginning company (
Compagnie Malienne 
pour le Développement des Textiles 
–
CMDT
)
;
·
Re-constitution of the Board of Directors of the Malian Housing Bank (
Banque de l’Habitat 
Malian
 
–
BHM) with the addition of three private sector specialists independent of the 
shareholders; and the canvassing of existing and potential new investors for the purposes of their 
interest in participating in the recapitalization of BHM;  and,
 
·
Establishment of the institutional framework for implementing the Government’s action plan for 
modernizing and improving public finance management; definition of the mechanisms for 
monitoring and evaluation of the plan; and allocation of resources in the draft 2006 budget for 
the 2006 period of the plan.
 
Page  3
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Despite its perennial vulnerability to exogenous shocks, Mali’s macroeconomic management and 
poverty reduction efforts are laudable. Prudent macroeconomic policies yield moderate economic 
growth with low inflation.  Based on its implementation record, the borrower’s commitment to and 
ownership of reforms is adequate.  Mali’s ownership of its reforms is reflected in the track record under 
the Third and Fourth Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs), the ongoing IMF-supported Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Facility, and implementation of the PRSF. Under the SAC III (December 2001 
Board date), Mali made solid improvements in the past four years on public expenditure management 
reforms (rated highly satisfactory in the Implementation Completion Report).  Achievements include 
introduction of an overall government medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and elaboration of 
a
detailed MTEF for the health sector; introduction of budget classification for sub-national and poverty 
expenditures; establishment of a shared database for three key Finance Ministry departments, thereby 
improving the reliability of budget expenditure data and timely expenditure monitoring capabilities;  and 
improvement in ex-post auditing by hiring of staff in the Accounts Section of the Supreme Court, which 
enabled clearing of the backlog of budget implementation reviews budget.  Mali also satisfactorily 
managed the cotton crisis of 2001 by restoring the confidence of the farmers in the sector’s viability.   
Under the SAC IV (March 2005 Board date), achievements include:  elaboration of the education sector 
MTEF, appropriation of the social sector MTEFs in the budget arbitrage process, and use of the MTEF 
for preparing the next phase sector reforms; establishment of public dissemination procedures for 
macroeconomic and budget implementation information; introduction of monitoring indicators for 
internal audit activities;  and extension of integrated database to sub-national units of the three key 
finance departments of the Finance Ministry.  The authorities adopted a new cotton producer price 
setting mechanism with farmers and the national ginning company (CMDT) and have been 
implementing it satisfactorily, thereby reducing the budgetary risk of the cotton sector.  The authorities 
have also re-engaged on the cotton sector reforms program with agreement on the CMDT privatization 
framework, and laid the foundation for implementing actions identified in the financial, irrigation and 
transport sectors under the proposed Credit.  There is a need to build on these past achievements by 
deepening progress on the social, structural and institutional reform agenda as outline in the PRSF and 
supported by Mali’s bilateral and multilateral donors.   
4. Financing 
 
The Credit amount is $25 million, to be available for disbursement in a single tranche upon credit 
effectiveness. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance is the main interlocutor of this operation, and is responsible for 
overall coordination of supervision and monitoring of program implementation through its 
Macroeconomic Monitoring Unit (MMU), in collaboration with Technical Advisors to the Minister 
(MEF) on the respective policy areas (agriculture sector, financial sector) and with designated 
representatives of concerned sector Ministries (Transport; Industry and Trade; Investment Promotion 
and Small and Medium Enterprises; Culture; Tourism and Artisan Activities; Health;  Education; State 
Patrimony), MEF Departments (Treasury, Budget, Financial Controls, Internal Controls, Fiscal, 
Customs), Agencies (Procurement (DGMP); the Financial Sector Development Project Unit (PDSF), 
Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton
 (MRSC), the Road Authority; National Highway 
Department;  Public Sector Retirement Fund (CRM); Private Sector Insurance Agency (INPS); 
Office du 
Niger
,
the Central Bank) or Companies (CMDT); and the various private sector banks (BIM, BHM, 
Page  4
BDM).  The participating Ministries and Agencies will furnish relevant documents to the MMU 
accompanied by an explanatory note.  The MMU will confirm and validate those notes and other 
documentation, and consolidate them into a package to be provided to IDA.   
 
IDA supervision missions (for this credit in conjunction with corresponding sector operations where 
applicable) will monitor program implementation, in coordination with the IMF and other major donors.  
Emphasis will be largely on monitoring indicators (to the extent available) and on the goals of the 
program. 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
The proposed operation would support the Government in the pursuit of its policy objectives laid out in 
the PRSF within an appropriate macroeconomic framework, by providing sound financing for execution 
of the government’s 2005 budget. It would also provide the incentives to implement key economic, 
social and institutional reform to strengthen overall performance of the economy and contribute to 
poverty alleviation.  Implementation of the DPC I program contributes to strengthen public finance 
management, thereby enhancing efficiency and effectiveness of public sector spending.  This includes 
strengthening governance and performance of the procurement system.  In agriculture, the operation 
would contribute to stabilizing the performance of the cotton sector and farmer incomes;  and to laying 
the foundations for private sector led expansion of the 
Office du Niger 
(ON) irrigation zone.  The 
operation would also contribute to enhancing the export prospects of handicraft products (typically 
produced by small informal sector firms) through removal of the export assessment tax, thereby 
improving the incomes of the poor.  It would also improve the investment climate by lowering the 
administrative and financial cost of starting a business, and strengthening property rights over land.  
Over the medium term, the operation would contribute to reducing transportation costs by ensuring 
regular road maintenance and lowering the cost burden (in money and time) on the private sector of 
customs administration, and to increase agriculture growth and food security due to expansion of the ON 
area.  It would lower the costs of financial services (and therefore enhance access to credit) through 
cleaning up non-performing loans from bank balance sheets.  It would also improve access to longer 
term resources vitally needed to stimulate private sector led growth, through the strengthening the 
prospects of institutions with long term assets whether financial (pension funds, housing bank, insurance 
companies) or physical (leasing companies).   
 
Risks
 
The operation faces the external, institutional, and political risks.  
External risks
 stem mainly from the 
well-known vulnerability of the Malian economy to vagaries of weather and commodity price 
fluctuations (cotton, oil) as well as regional crises (e.g., Cote d’Ivoire, cricket infestation).  Mitigating 
these risks over the horizon of the proposed project remains difficult.  However, the project would be 
broadly consistent with policies and initiatives to reduce the Malian economy’s structural vulnerabilities 
over the medium term by the inclusion of key measures for financial sector development, transport 
diversification and trade facilitation measures (including customs reform).  Additionally, the country 
dialogue would allow for some budget flexibility to address crisis-related expenses within the context of 
a
prudently managed budget supporting priority growth and poverty reduction programs.  Increasing 
progress toward predictable and timely donor support and coordination promoted under the project will 
also be key. 
Page  5
Institutional risk
 comprises the threat of weak capacity and governance to program implementation and 
outcomes.  This risk of slower-than-desired program implementation stemming from capacity 
constraints will be reduced through continued technical support by the World Bank and other donors to 
strengthen capacity, particularly in coordination of the financial sector and growth/macroeconomic 
programs.  Project design also includes strengthening growth-critical areas such as prudent fiscal policy, 
financial sector development and transport and trade facilitation.  Furthermore, by building on the good 
record of policy reform in public finance management, the Credit itself will contribute to the 
institutional strengthening of various agencies involved in public finance management including at sub-
national levels.  
Political risk
 remains that the government’s current commitment to the continued reforms, including 
privatization and liberalization program (banking, cotton, telecommunication sectors) could wane.  
Potential re-opening of discussion on agreed measures could cause a loss of momentum in reform 
implementation.  This risk is constantly monitored by the country team in order to detect problem areas 
early on and adjust the Bank response as needed.  Finally, and perhaps most importantly, given the low 
international cotton prices, there is a critical political risk that insufficient recovery of world cotton 
prices would dictate a sharp downward adjustment in local producer prices, an adjustment that could 
prove politically extremely difficult.  While this risk is not possible to control, the operation draws from 
estimates of the potential poverty and financial impact of various cotton prices in order to inform the 
policy choices and trade offs between the need for local prices to reflect world market conditions and the 
desirability of cushioning the temporary impact on the poor. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty/Social Impacts 
 
The poverty and social impacts of the DPC I are expected to be favorable overall.  Many of the measures 
have an indirect poverty and social impact through creating the conditions for improved governance and 
provision of public services (i.e., macroeconomic and public finance management), improved quality of 
infrastructure services (i.e., transport road maintenance, irrigation reforms), health or and access to 
financial sector services (i.e., financial sector reforms) and lower cost of goods and services (transport 
road maintenance, trade facilitation).  The potential increase in the road user fee on petroleum product 
imports would tend to negatively impact better-off households rather than the poor since the former 
consume much more petroleum products than the poor (see Annex 10).  The elimination of the export-
related “expertise tax” on handicrafts would benefit the poor since handicrafts are a major source of 
income for large numbers of the poor.  Handicraft activities are also the main source of diversification 
outside agriculture in the rural areas, thereby translating into economic opportunities for the poorest 
Malians.  As regards the cotton producer price reform, the poverty and social impact analysis (PSIA) 
indicates the reform impact is complex but appears to be much less adverse to farmers as a whole than 
initially feared.   
 
Environment 
The implementation of the Credit reform program is not expected to have any negative environmental 
impact, especially in the short-term horizon of this operation
.
Implementation of the sector reforms 
under the operation (cotton, irrigation and transport) may have environmental implications. Potential 
implications of irrigation and transport measures are being addressed under the respective ongoing 
sector operations—the National Rural Irrigation Project (FY00) and Transport Corridor Improvement 
Project (FY04).  Implementation of the longer-term cotton sector reforms may have environmental 
implications due to the potential increase in cotton production and attendant increase in 
Page  6
fertilizer/pesticide use. An assessment of the likely environmental impact shows, however, that the 
magnitude of environmental risks strictly associated with the cotton sector is very limited, as no major 
expansion of cotton cultivated areas is expected. Specific measures that will address the minimal 
potential environmental impact of the cotton recovery program are included in the ISDS of the 
Agricultural Services Project (FY02).  Environmental issues associated with the cotton privatization 
program will be incorporated in the bidding/negotiations process for each company privatized. 
The Credit program, if successful, would likely contribute to expansion of private sector activity, 
inclusive of production operations in polluting sectors.  These impacts will be addressed to some extent 
under future Bank projects, but would best be tackled in a perennial manner through the country’s 
environmental management agency.  Yet Mali’s capacity to guide industrial development in sustainable 
manner (through, for example, the review of proposals, issuance of permits, and enforcement of 
standards) is currently assessed to be weak.  Consideration for providing Bank support to strengthen 
Mali’s environment management capacity should be discussed in the context of the upcoming CAS 
exercise.  
8. Contact point 
Contact: Christina A. Wood 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5829 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Cwood@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
